  1002070358
                                                ABSTRACT
  Electrical protection devices, such as for use with power systems for overvoltage protection, are
  disclosed. One electrical protection device includes a first electrical connection, a second
  electrical connection, a first electrical discharge device, and a second electrical discharge device.
5 The first electrical discharge device includes a first conductive bus connected to the first
  electrical connection and a second conductive bus connected to the second electrical connection.
  The first electrical discharge device has a first breakdown voltage. The second electrical
  discharge device includes a third conductive bus connected to the first electrical connection and
  a fourth conductive bus connected to the second electrical connection. The second electrical
0 discharge device has a second breakdown voltage.

                    OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION FOR POWER SYSTEMS
          This application claims priority to U.S.         Provisional Patent Application      Ser. No.
   61/767,143, filed February 20, 2013; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/817,762,
   filed April 30, 2013; and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/880,345, filed
 5 September 20, 2013; which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
          This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application 2014219060, the content
   of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.
                                                  Technical Field
          The present application relates generally to power system features, and in particular to an
 0 overvoltage protection arrangement for power systems.
                                                   Background
          Traditionally, critical electrical systems are required to be protected against over voltages
   caused by faults in such electrical systems. These faults can generate much higher than normal
   currents and voltages across critical devices and can exceed their safe limit. For example, power
 5 systems, which correspond to an example of critical infrastructure, can experience ground faults,
   which result in high voltage signals being grounded, causing a current spike through equipment,
   and often causing damage to critical electrical equipment.
          Systems have historically been developed that protect such systems during fault events.
   For example, in some cases, a spark gap was historically used to allow relief of overvoltage
20 events, by allowing for a spark to form across an open air gap or in a non-combustible gas within
   a container to cause relief of voltage events that exceed a predetermined threshold. However,
   spark gaps are highly variable, and the voltage that causes such a spark to occur can vary by up
   to 10% - 15% based on humidity and condensation or other environmental conditions.
   Furthermore, the total amount of energy that can be dispersed via the spark gap before the gap
25 electrode material is destroyed by the energy of the electrical arc.
          In more recent protection systems, surge arresters have been placed in parallel with power
   line transformers to protect during lightning strikes, ground faults, or other voltage and/or current
   spike conditions. In such circumstances, surge
                                                       1

   arresters provide voltage clipping at a first threshold, in which overvoltage events can be routed
   to ground without damaging electrical systems positioned in parallel with such surge arresters.
   The surge arresters have a limit to the amount of energy they can shunt to ground. If the event
 5 continues after that energy limit is exceeded, the surge arrester enters a pressure relief mode. In
   this event, the surge arrester is designed to safely carry the current to ground and to limit the
   voltage on the protected system (e.g. as described in IEEE C62.1 1) but is unusable afterwards.
          Accordingly,    the various systems and methods          that have been used experience
   disadvantages in operation that render them, at times, to be suboptimal for reliable protection for
 0 electrical systems.
                                                 Summary
          In a first aspect of the invention, there is provided an electrical protection device
   comprising a first electrical connection, a second electrical connection, and an electrical
   discharge device. The electrical discharge device includes a first conductive bus connected to the
 5 first electrical connection and a second conductive bus connected to the second electrical
   connection, the electrical discharge device forming a spark gap between a first electrode of the
   first conductive bus and a second electrode of the second conductive bus, each of the first and
   second electrodes at least partially constructed from an ablation-resilient material, the first and
   second electrodes each having a generally cylindrical structure of a predetermined diameter and
 0 converging to form the spark gap. The spark gap includes a breakdown region comprising a
   vertically-oriented trapezoidal region defined by a gap height, a first gap width, and a second gap
   width, wherein a difference between the first gap width and the second gap width is less than the
   predetermined diameter and the gap height is greater than at least the second gap width, and a
   pair of arcing horns extending angularly therefrom. The breakdown region is formed between a
25 generally vertical region of the first electrode and a generally vertical region of the second
   electrode, the generally vertical region of the first electrode being defined by a lower corner
   adjacent to a converging region of the first electrode and an upper corner adjacent to the arcing
   horn of the first electrode, the generally vertical region of the second electrode being defined by
   a lower corner adjacent to a converging region of the second electrode and an upper corner
30 adjacent to the arcing horn of the second electrode. A gap between the generally vertical region
   of the first electrode and the generally vertical region of the second electrode has a gradual
                                                      2

   linearly decreasing width from a widest point having the first gap width to a narrowest point
   nearer the pair of arcing horns having the second gap width, the second gap width being selected
   to form an electrical arc in air at a breakdown voltage of at least 10,000 volts. Upon formation of
   the electrical arc in the first breakdown region, an electrical current passes between the first
 5 electrode and the second electrode and is discharged over a plurality of cycles at a power line
   frequency across the pair of arcing horns non-destructively. The electrical protection devices
   further includes a support structure comprising a plurality of mounts constructed to withstand a
   Lorentz force generated in the event the electrical current exceeds a peak value of at least 60,000
   amps during the plurality of cycles at the power line frequency, and a plurality of supporting
 0 insulator elements rigidly stabilizing the electrical discharge device and constructed to withstand
   the Lorentz force.
          In a second aspect, the invention provides an electrical protection device comprising: a first
   electrical connection, a second electrical connection; and a spark gap formed between a first
   electrode and a second electrode, the first and second electrode each having a generally
 5 cylindrical structure of a predetermined diameter, the first electrode connected to the first
   electrical connection and the second electrode connected to the second electrical connection. The
   first spark gap includes a breakdown region comprising a vertically-oriented trapezoidal region
   defined by a gap height, a first gap width, and a second gap width, wherein a difference between
   the first gap width and the second gap width is less than the predetermined diameter and the gap
 0 height is greater than at least the second gap width, the second gap width selected to form an
   electrical arc in air at a first breakdown voltage of at least 10,000 volts. The breakdown region is
   formed between a generally vertical region of the first electrode and a generally vertical region
   of the second electrode, the generally vertical region of the first electrode being defined by a
   lower corner adjacent to a converging region of the first electrode and an upper corner of the first
25 electrode, the generally vertical region of the second electrode being defined by a lower corner
   adjacent to a converging region of the second electrode and an upper corner of the second
   electrode. A gap between the generally vertical region of the first electrode and the generally
   vertical region of the second electrode has a gradual linearly decreasing width from a widest
   point having the first gap width to a narrowest point having the second gap width nearer the pair
30 of arcing horns. A difference between the first gap width and the second gap width is less than
   the predetermined diameter and the gap height is greater than at least the second gap width. The
   electrical protection device further includes a pair of arcing horns extending from the spark gap
   and positioned to carry the electrical arc formed at the spark gap away from the spark gap over a
                                                      3

   discharge time duration of a plurality of cycles at a power line frequency non-destructively. The
   pair of arcing horns includes a first arcing horn adjacent to the upper corner of the first electrode
   and a second arcing horn adjacent to the upper corner of the second electrode.
         In a third aspect, the invention provides an overvoltage protection system comprising an
 5 overvoltage protection assembly that includes a first electrical connection and a second electrical
   connection, and a first electrical discharge device, including a first conductive bus connected to
   the first electrical connection and a second conductive bus connected to the second electrical
   connection, the first electrical discharge device forming a spark gap between a first electrode of
   the first conductive bus and a second electrode of the second conductive bus each at least
 0 partially at least partially constructed from an ablation-resilient material and having a
   predetermined minimum diameter, the first and second electrodes converging to form the spark
   gap. The spark gap includes a breakdown region, and a pair of arcing horns extending angularly
   therefrom.    The breakdown region is formed between a generally vertical region of the first
   electrode and a generally vertical region of the second electrode, the generally vertical region of
 5 the first electrode being defined by a lower comer adjacent to a converging region of the first
   electrode and an upper corner adjacent to the arcing horn of the first electrode, the generally
   vertical region of the second electrode being defined by a lower corner adjacent to a converging
   region of the second electrode and an upper corner adjacent to the arcing horn of the second
   electrode. A gap between the generally vertical region of the first electrode and the generally
 0 vertical region of the second electrode has a varying width of between 1 mm and 20 mm that is
   gradually linearly decreasing from a widest point to a narrowest point nearer the pair of arcing
   horns and a breakdown voltage of at least 10,000 volts. A difference between the widest point
   and the narrowest point in the breakdown region is less than the predetermined minimum
   diameter of either of the first or second conductive bus and the gap height is greater than at least
25 the second gap width. When a voltage differential between the first conductive bus and the
   second conductive bus exceeds the first breakdown voltage, a first electrical current passes
   between the first conductive bus and the second conductive bus and is discharged over a
   discharge time duration of a plurality of cycles at a power line frequency non-destructively. Te
   overvoltage protection assembly further includes a support structure comprising a plurality of
30 mounts constructed to withstand a Lorentz force generated based on a current through the spark
   gaps exceeding 60,000 amps, and a plurality of supporting insulator elements rigidly stabilizing
   the electrical discharge device.
                                                     4

          The invention further provides, in a fourth aspect, an electrical protection circuit
   comprising an overvoltage discharge device including a first electrode and an opposing second
   electrode, each of the first electrode and the opposing second electrode including a circuit lead, a
   spark gap region, and an extension leading to an ablating end, and a circuit electrically connected
 5 across the first electrode and the opposing second electrode, the circuit electrically connected to
   the overvoltage discharge device and exposed to a possible electrical event having a breakdown
   voltage below 28kV and a current range of above 8,000 amps over at least 60 milliseconds. The
   first electrode and the opposing second electrode form a spark gap at the opposed spark gap
   regions of the first electrode and the opposing second electrode, the opposed spark gap regions
 0 being spaced apart to form a spark in response to the electrical event. The circuit leads of the first
   and second electrodes connect to the circuit and angle towards each other at the spark gap
   regions. The extensions of the first and second electrodes extend from the spark gap regions and
   angle away from each other, leading to the respective ablating ends of the first and second
   electrodes. The spark gap is shaped such that, in the event of an electrical event within a range of
 5 the possible electrical event, an arc forms at the spark gap, causing a Lorentz force to propel the
   arc away from the spark gap toward the ablating ends of the first and second electrodes, thereby
   reducing ablation of the first electrode and the opposing second electrode at the spark gap
   regions to substantially maintain the breakdown voltage at the spark gap for repeated use of the
   spark gap in connection with electrical events corresponding to the possible electrical event.
 0        In a fifth aspect, the invention provides an electrical protection device comprising a first
   electrode having a generally cylindrical shape of a predetermined diameter and forming a first
   angled portion, the first electrode having a first portion approaching the first angled portion from
   a first direction and a second portion extending from the first angled portion toward a second
   direction, and a second electrode having a generally cylindrical shape and forming a second
25 angled portion, the second electrode having a third portion approaching the second angled
   portion from a third direction and a fourth portion extending from the second angled portion
   toward a fourth direction. The first angled portion and second angled portion are positioned
   adjacent and opposed to one another to form a spark gap region, the spark gap region having a
   breakdown voltage defined by a narrowest distance between the first and second electrodes.
                                                      5

  The first angled portion and second angled portion form non-parallel opposing surfaces in the
  spark gap region defining a spark gap angle having (1) a same orientation as but narrower than a
  first electrode angle between the first direction and the third direction and (2) an opposite
  orientation from and narrower than a second electrode angle between the second direction and
5 the fourth direction. The first angled portion and the second angled portion have a narrowest
  distance proximate to the second portion of the first electrode and the fourth portion of the
  second electrode, respectively, and a widest distance proximate to the first portion of the first
  electrode and the third portion of the second electrode, respectively. A difference between the
  narrowest distance and the widest distance of the spark gap region is smaller than the
0 predetermined diameter of the first electrode.
                                  Brief Description of the Drawings
         Figure 1 is a schematic view of an overvoltage protection assembly
                                                  5A

                  Figure 2 is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection assembly,
   according to a first alternative example embodiment;
                  Figure 3 illustrates example voltage levels depicting a design of the
   overvoltage protection assemblies discussed herein, in some example embodiments;
 5                Figure 4 is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection assembly,
   according to a second example embodiment;
                  Figure 5A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly including an integrated Gabriel, according to a further example
   embodiment;
10                Figure 5B is a close up perspective view of a portion of the
   overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 5A;
                  Figure 6 is a schematic view of an overvoltage protection assembly,
   according to a further example embodiment;
                  Figure 7 is a schematic view of an overvoltage protection assembly,
15 according to a further example embodiment;
                  Figure 8 is a schematic view of a cylindrical spark gap assembly,
   according to a further example embodiment;
                  Figure 9 is a cross-sectional schematic view of a cylindrical spark gap
   assembly, according to a further example embodiment;
20                 Figure 10 A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly according to a further example embodiment;
                  Figure 1OB is a close-up, perspective view of a portion of the
   overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 1OA;
                   Figure 1 OC is another perspective view of the overvoltage protection
25 assembly of Figure 1OA;
                   Figure 11 A is a perspective view of an embodiment of the electrodes
   in an overvoltage protection assembly;
                   Figure 1 1B is a close-up, perspective view of the embodiment of the
   electrodes of Figure 11 A;
30                 Figure 12 is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection assembly
   according to another example embodiment;
                   Figure 13A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly according to another example embodiment;
                                               6

                   Figure 13B is an perspective view of the of the inside of the
   overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 13A;
                   Figure 14A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly according to another example embodiment;
 5                 Figure 14B is a side view of a subassembly of the overvoltage
   protection assembly of Figure 14A;
                   Figure 14C is a perspective view of an alternate embodiment of the
   overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 14A;
                   Figure 14D is a perspective view of an alternate embodiment of the
10 overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 14A;
                   Figure 14E is a side view of an alternate embodiment of the
   conductors of the overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 14A;
                   Figure 14F is a side view of another alternate embodiment of the
   conductors of the overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 14A;
15                 Figure 15A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly according to another example embodiment;
                   Figure 15B is another perspective view of the overvoltage protection
   assembly of Figure 15A;
                   Figures 15C is a perspective view from below of the overvoltage
20 protection assembly of Figure 15A;
                   Figure 15D is a close-up, perspective view from below of the
   overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 15A;
                   Figure 15E is a perspective view from below of the roof and the cage
   of the overvoltage protection assembly of Figure 15A;
25                 Figure 15F is a perspective view of the cage of the overvoltage
   protection assembly of Figure 15A; and
                   Figure 16 is a circuit diagram of an overvoltage protection system
   according to another example embodiment.
                                     Detailed Description
30                 Various embodiments of the present invention will be described in
   detail with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals represent like
   parts and assemblies throughout the several views. Reference to various
                                                7

   embodiments does not limit the scope of the invention, which is limited only by the
   scope of the claims attached hereto. Additionally, any examples set forth in this
   specification are not intended to be limiting and merely set forth some of the many
   possible embodiments for the claimed invention.
 5                 In general the present disclosure relates to a protective device for
   other electrical components, such as a capacitor bank or other electrical system,
   from ground fault voltage surges in power systems. Embodiments of the systems
   and methods of the present disclosure incorporates the integration of a surge arrester,
   spark gap, and a Jacob's ladder (or arcing horns) such that the gap distance and the
10 surge arrester electrical characteristics are selected to give reliable protection at a
   given voltage level. Still other embodiments of the electrical protection systems
   described herein employ spark gap configurations that provide overvoltage
   protection of electrical systems, and in particular for use in large scale power
   systems (e.g. power transmission systems) that require relatively large power and
15 current dissipation amounts, while remaining cost-effective for use in power
   transmission networks. Such embodiments can include features which are tailored
   for use in protection against induced currents experienced on a neutral of a power
   line transformer, and are configured to provide a relatively low-cost configuration
   which also can accommodate such large current dissipation events as may occur in a
20 power grid.
                   Referring now to Figures 1-2, an assembly 100 is shown that is
   configured to provide protection to a high power electrical component, such as a
   capacitor bank or other power system component, from high voltage during ground
   fault events, according to example embodiments. The assembly includes a surge
25 arrester 102, a Jacob's ladder (or arcing horns) 104, and a spark gap 106 integrated
   therein, and connected in parallel with one another across circuit leads 108a-b,
   which connect to the component to be protected.
                   In the embodiment shown, the surge arrester 102 can take many
   forms. In an example embodiment, the surge arrester 102 is a metal oxide varistor
30 (MOV) surge arrester. It can be located in a variety of locations; in the example of
   Figure 2, the surge arrester 102 is mounted at the base of the assembly. The surge
   arrester 102 clips any resonant or other voltages that might appear across a capacitor
   or capacitor bank or a series combination of a capacitor and resistor, thereby
                                                8

   providing voltage clipping and resulting dampening for any unwanted series, ferro,
    or other resonances. In the embodiment shown, the surge arrester 102 is electrically
    connected at opposing sides to first and second electrical connections, at circuit
    leads 108a-b.
 5                  Attached to the surge arrester is a combination Jacob's ladder (or
    arcing horns) 104 with a spark gap 106. The Jacob's ladder 104 includes first and
   second conductors 105a-b, between which the spark gap is formed, and in which the
    distance between the top end of the first electrode and the top end of the second
    electrode is greater than the distance between the bottom end of the first electrode
10  and the bottom end of the second electrode. The first and second conductors 105a-b
   can be constructed from, in various embodiments, brass, nickel coated copper,
   tungsten, niobium, alloys thereof, or other types of highly conductive materials.
                    The spark gap 106 is, in the embodiment shown in Figure 2, a narrow
   gap between the two conductors 105a-b of a narrow section of the Jacob's ladder
15  104, forming electrodes 1 Oa-b. The spark gap 106 has, in the embodiment shown,
   a few millimeter gap distance, and is built into the Jacob's ladder 104. When a high
   current ground fault is experienced, an arc will form at the spark gap 106 to limit the
   voltage across the component to be protected (i.e. a capacitor or capacitor bank or
   other component, connected at leads 108a-b).
20                  The Jacob's ladder 104 includes complementary metal structures
   forming a gap of increasing distance extending away from the spark gap 106. The
   Jacob's ladder 104 is, in example embodiments, constructed of a suitable conducting
   metal such as brass, nickel coated copper, tungsten, niobium, alloys thereof, or other
   suitable metal, and provides a means for the arc to travel away from the spark gap
25  106 (e.g., up the ladder) where it can dissipate large amounts of energy to the air.
                    In some embodiments, the gap separation on the Jacob's ladder 104,
   and hence the breakdown voltage, is designed to be a fixed distance to achieve a
   fixed breakdown voltage in air. In alternative embodiments, the gap could be
   adjustable, and hence the breakdown voltage of the gap could be adjustable. The
30 relationship between the breakdown voltage and gap spacing for various gases is
   given by Paschen's Law, which describes a breakdown voltage of gas between
   parallel plates as a function of pressure and gap distance.
                                                9

                   During operation, and upon occurrence of an overvoltage event,
   typically the initial arc after forming at the spark gap 106 will rapidly climb the
   Jacob's ladder 104 and then continue to arc across the tips of the ladder for several
   power cycles, typically a few (4 - 6) power cycles at 60 Hz (i.e. 60 to 100
 5 milliseconds). During this arc energy dissipation phase, some of the tips of the
   Jacob's ladder 104 will experience heating and a small amount of the metal
   electrode tips could be vaporized.
                   The surge arrester provides voltage clipping and in turn dampening of
   any unwanted resonances which might be encountered. If the surge arrester's energy
10 absorption limit is exceeded, the spark gap remains to protect connected equipment
   from further overvoltage events. A Jacob's ladder is also connected in parallel with
   the surge arrester and the spark gap. The Jacob's ladder function is to protect the
   surge arrester and spark gap once an arc conduction path has been established. That
   is, the arc when initiated at the gap will rapidly rise to the top of the ladder where the
15 arc energy is dissipated into the air. In this way the combination of the surge
   arrester, spark gap and the Jacob's ladder provide an extremely reliable device for
   high power components such as capacitor banks, static VAR compensators (SVCs),
   or other high power electrical system components.
                   Figure 3 illustrates an example voltage level diagram 300 depicting a
20 design of the overvoltage protection assemblies discussed herein, in some example
   embodiments. In the diagram 300 as shown, operation of the protection assemblies
   illustrated above, as well as those in Figures 4-5 below, are described. In particular,
   one application of this protection assembly is the protection of a capacitor bank used
   for blocking Geomagnetically Induced Current (GIC) in the neutral of a grounded
25 transformer, SVC or other power component.
                   As seen in the diagram 300 of Figure 3, when ground fault voltages
   are encountered, the surge arrester 102 in an example assembly will conduct current
   and will perform a voltage clipping function for example in the 5kV to 7 kV range.
   This provides damping to control unwanted resonances that may appear in a power
30 system. If the amount of energy being shunted to ground by the surge arrester
   exceeds its functional limit, it will enter pressure relief and be consumed. In
   subsequent fault events, if the voltage exceeds the breakdown voltage of the spark
   gap (e.g., above the 11kV range), an arc will form at the spark gap. In this case, the
                                                10

   gap distance would be selected such that the arc would form for example at a
   nominal voltage on the order of 11kV to 25 kV. It has been established that this
   breakdown voltage is dependent on humidity, condensation, atmospheric pressure
   variations, etc. However, variations over humidity, condensation, and pressure
 5 conditions will not greatly affect the breakdown voltage in the spark gap 106; rather,
   a variation in breakdown voltage will be relatively small (i.e. on the order of+/
   10% to 15%), and is tolerable for this protection application. In alternative
   embodiments, additional surge arresters having different characteristics could be
   incorporated, such that each surge arrester may be configured to enter a pressure
10 relief mode at the same level, or different levels.
                   Figure 4 is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection assembly
   400, according to a second example embodiment. The assembly 400 includes a
   surge arrester 402, as well as a Jacob's ladder 404 and spark gap 406, analogous to
   those described above. In this example embodiment, the assembly 400 is configured
15 using a "blade" configuration of the Jacob's ladder 404 that is designed to provide
   increased mechanical stability to the Jacob's ladder 404 and a hence a more stable
   spark gap distance (i.e. a more consistent gap breakdown voltage). The assembly
   400 as shown includes the surge arrester 402 (e.g., the MOV) mounted horizontally
   at the bottom of the assembly. Conductors 405a-b of the Jacob's ladder 404 are
20 electrically connected in parallel with the surge arrester 402, and extend vertically. If
   the surge arrester's current carrying ability is exceeded, it will enter the pressure
   relief mode and an electrical arc will form. Subsequent overvoltage events would
   create an are at the spark gap if the voltage differential reaches the gaps preset
   breakdown voltage. In either case, the are energy is then dissipated at the tips of the
25 Jacob's ladder 404 reducing the amount of damage to the surge arrester 402 and
   material of conductors 405a-b that define the gap dimensions and therefore the
   breakdown voltage of the spark gap. The assembly 400 is configured to be
   connected to the component to be protected at circuit leads 408a-b.
                   Now referring to Figures 5A-5B, a further example protective
30 assembly 500 is shown that includes an integrated "Gabriel" configuration. In this
   embodiment, the assembly again includes a surge arrester (not shown), Jacob's
   ladder 504, and spark gap 506. However, in the embodiment shown, the spark gap
   506 includes a Gabriel electrode 510e in addition to the existing electrodes 510a-b.
                                               11

   This provides a more reliable breakdown voltage of the gap. In the embodiment
   shown the third electrode 51 Oc is implemented by including in this example a spark
   plug 512 at the spark gap 506, with the tip of this third electrode ( in this example a
   spark plug) positioned in the spark gap 506. This electrode 510c is connected
 5 electrically to the high voltage ladder electrode 51Ob through a series resistor (not
   shown, but typically on the order of a few mega ohms resistance). The function of
   electrode 5lOc is to initiate an ionized column of gas at a more precise voltage level
   to start the formation of the arc in the gap. The resistor then limits the current
   through this electrode so that the arc current is carried through the first and second
10 electrodes of the Jacob's ladder or arcing horns. The third electrode 510c thereby
   provides a smaller range of voltages over which the spark gap fires and the assembly
   enters its protection mode. The assembly 500 is configured to be connected to the
   component to be protected at circuit leads 508a-b.
                    Referring now to Figure 6, a further embodiment of an overvoltage
15 protection assembly 600 is shown. In the embodiment shown, a spark gap 602 is
   used for ground fault protection for high voltage (HV) and extra high voltage (EHV)
   power equipment. In the embodiment shown, a Jacob's ladder 604 can be used in
   connection with the spark gap 602 to create a protection device which has a long life
   and allows reuse for many (e.g., about 100 to 1,000) ground fault events. The spark
20 gap 602 includes electrodes 603a-b, positioned at a predetermined distance from one
   another.
                    The overvoltage protection assembly 600 of Figure 6, as with the
   other embodiments discussed herein, overcomes a problem with many spark gaps
   when used in high voltage, high current situations, in that the high current arc melts
25 and destroys the metal in the area of the gap unless a special geometry and materials
   are used in the device. In an example embodiment as shown in Figure 6, this
   destructive situation can be overcome using a Jacob's ladder 604 associated with the
   spark gap 602, and which will move the arc out of the initial gap area to allow
   energy dissipation over a larger volume and at the tip of the ladder electrodes. By
30 this means, an overvoltage protection assembly, such as overvoltage protection
   assembly 600, can be designed that will not degrade but instead be re-useable for
   many ground faults.
                                               12

                    Additionally, it is noted that the overvoltage protection assembly 600
   further encourages any spark formed at the spark gap 602 to quickly move up the
   Jacob's ladder by applying a Lorentz force from the return conductor (612) located
   below the region of the arc. One side of the assembly is connected to the hot side of
 5 the electrical device that is to be protected. The second side of the spark gap is
   grounded at a grounding point 610. A conductive bar 612 or other electrical bus can
   be connected to the grounded return path side of the spark gap 602 and positioned
   below the spark gap 602.
                    In operation, a Lorentz force occurs between the conductive path on
10 the positive side of the spark gap and Jacob's ladder assembly (at the first side of the
   spark gap 602) and the return path side of the spark gap 602, which repels the arc
   plasma and thereby pushes the arc up the Jacob's ladder 604. In the embodiment
   shown, a gap distance between the two electrodes is selected such that the required
   breakdown voltage can be achieved. This distance can be calculated using a
15 Paschen's law relationship, expressed as a relationship between the breakdown
   voltage, the gas in the spark gap (i.e., air), the pressure experienced, and the distance
   of the spark gap.
                    In a further embodiment of the present disclosure illustrated in Figure
   7, overvoltage protection assembly 700 is shown. In this embodiment, a spark gap
20 702 can include electrodes 703a-b, and can be introduced into the arrangement
   illustrated in Figure 6 by way of a Gabriel electrode 704. In this embodiment, a
   current conduction path is similar to that shown in Figure 6; however, in the
   overvoltage protection assembly 700, the width of the spark gap 702 can be wider.
   For example, in some embodiments, the spark gap 702 can have a width of about 6
25 to 10 millimeters. In this configuration, an initial spark occurs between the third
   electrode 704 and the ground electrode 703b. A typical gap distance between this
   third electrode and the electrode 703b can be on the order of about 1 to 4 millimeters
   depending on the required breakdown voltage. The current in the initial spark is
   limited by a resistor 706 connected to this third electrode 704. Once a spark is
30 initiated, a high current arc will be established between the high voltage electrode
   703a and the ground electrode 703b. The larger gap size, typically 6 to 20
   millimeters, allows for better arc energy dissipation over a larger volume and hence
   less chance for melting and destruction of the electrodes. The third electrode 704
                                                13

   can be, in various embodiments, made of tungsten or niobium or other high melting
   point metal to reduce wear occurring on this electrode. Additionally, in some
   embodiments the third electrode can be mounted securely in an insulating material
   708 located under the gap area but above the lower electrical bus 709 (i.e.
 5 conductor), which is electrically connected to a grounding point 712.
                   In some embodiments, additionally the spark gap electrodes 703a-b
   can be constructed of tungsten to decrease the melting and/or destructive effect of a
   high current event on an electrode. This can be accomplished by using either two
   blocks of tungsten to which a Jacob's ladder 710 is attached as shown in Figure 7, or
10 alternatively by using tungsten horns for the entire assembly of the Jacob's ladder
   710. In still other embodiments, other partial portions of the spark gap 702 and/or
   Jacob's ladder 710 can be made from tungsten or equivalent resilient conductive
   material.
                   An example cylindrical spark gap assembly 800 is illustrated in
15 Figures 8-9. In this embodiment, two concentric metallic cylinders 802, 804 create a
   large area spark gap to achieve a long life ground fault protection device. In this
   embodiment, an arc is allowed to move around to the region of the smallest gap
   distance. Should metal ablation or melting occur the gap size in the region will
   increase. Hence, the arc will move to a different location within the device. A large
20 spark gap area can be created by increasing the diameter and height of the cylinders
   shown in Figure 8. Electrical leads 810a-b can connect to the overvoltage protection
   assembly 800, for example for grounding or connecting to the electrical network to
   be protected, as in Figures 7-8.
                   Figure 9 shows details of the cylindrical spark gap assembly 800 in
25 cross-sectional form. In particular, the details illustrated in Figure 9 illustrate
   mounting the cylindrical spark gap assembly 800 including two concentric metallic
   cylinders 802, 804. An insulating material can be used to form top and bottom
   housing pieces 806a-b. Using a bolt 808 or other fastener, the center electrode
   cylinder can be secured relative to the outer electrode cylinder. Using the bolt 808
30 and associated cylinder shells, a uniform gap distance can be maintained between
   the two electrodes.
                                              14

                    Figure 1OA is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
    assembly 1000 according to another example embodiment. The assembly 1000
    includes a Jacob's ladder 1004, a spark gap 1006, and standoffs 1012a-b.
                    In the embodiment shown, the Jacob's ladder 1004 includes
 5  conductors 1005a-b having electrodes 1010a-b (shown more clearly in conjunction
   with the embodiment described below in connection with Figure 1OC) and is
    configured to carry an arc that forms in the spark gap 1006 along the conductors
    1005a-b where large amounts of are energy can be dissipated into the air. The
    conductors 1005a-b are generally vertically disposed and, in some embodiments,
10 have a cylindrical shape. The conductors 1005a-b are angled such that the distance
   between the middle of the conductors 1005a-b is less than the distance between the
   tops or the bottoms of the conductors 1005a-b. The spark gap 1006 is formed
   between the conductors 1005a-b at the point where the electrodes are closest
   together. Below the spark gap 1006, the distance between the conductors 1005a-b is
15 widened sufficiently to prevent the are from travelling down, or towards the
   equipment being protected. As described above, the spacing of the spark gap 1006
   is selected using Paschen's Law to achieve a desired break down voltage. For
   example, in an embodiment configured to achieve a break down voltage of 10,000
   volts in nitrogen at atmospheric pressure, the width of the spark gap 1006 is 2.3 mm.
20                  In the embodiment shown, the current in the conductors 1005a-b just
   below the spark gap 1006 provides the Lorentz force on the are formed in the spark
   gap 1006 and causes the arc to travel along the conductors 1005a-b. In some
   embodiments, the current moving up conductors 1005a, through the arc (i.e., across
   the spark gap 1006), and then down the conductors 1005b gives rise to a magnetic
25 field in the area of the spark gap 1006. This magnetic field interacts with the current
   in the are to give rise to the Lorentz force on the arc plasma, which pushes the arc up
   the conductors 1005a-b.
                    In some embodiments, the conductors 1005a-b are coupled to
   standoffs 1012a-b. The standoffs 1012a-b are formed from a rigid, insulating
30 material and are configured to ensure that the electrodes do not move while the arc is
   present. In some embodiments, the standoffs 1012a-b are additionally coupled to
   another rigid external structure.
                                               15

                    The conductors 1005a-b are connected to conducting buses 1007a-b.
   In some embodiments, the Jacob's ladder 1004 is connected in parallel to the
   equipment that is to be protected. In some embodiments, one of conductors 1005a-b
   is connected to the hot side of the electrical device that is to be protected and the
 5 other is connected to ground.
                    In some embodiments, the overvoltage protection assembly 1000
   additionally includes a Gabriel electrode 1010c. Other embodiments do not include
   a Gabriel electrode 1010c.
                    Now referring to Figure 1OB, a close-up, perspective view of
10 overvoltage protective assembly 1000 is shown. In the embodiment shown,
   overvoltage protective assembly 1000 includes as an integrated "Gabriel" electrode
   1010c.
                    In the embodiment shown in Figures 10A-B, a Gabriel electrode
   1010c is disposed in the spark gap 1006 between electrodes 10 1Oa-b, In some
15 embodiments, the Gabriel electrode 101Oc is an electrical conducting point that is
   much smaller than electrodes 1010a-b. The Gabriel electrode 1010c is configured to
   initiate the arc at a controlled voltage. The Gabriel electrode 101 0C allows for the
   initiation of the arc at a reasonably low breakdown voltage and allows for a larger
   gap so as to withstand the energy dissipation of a high-current arc. In some
20 embodiments, the Gabriel electrode 1010c is disposed and rigidly held at a position
   that is closer to electrode 101Oa than electrode 101Ob. In these embodiments, the
   initiation of the arc across the spark gap 1006 is dependent on the distance between
   the tips of electrode 101Oa and Gabriel electrode 101Oc. Further, in these
   embodiments, the initiation of the are across spark gap 1006 is less dependent on the
25 distance between electrode 1010a and electrode 1010b. Accordingly, embodiments
   that include Gabriel electrode 1010c have greater tolerance for environmental,
   material, and fabrication variances.
                    In the embodiment shown, the Gabriel electrode 1010c is a conductor
   disposed in an insulating material 10 11. The insulating material 1011 holds the
30 Gabriel electrode 101Oc in place. The tip of the Gabriel electrode 101Oc is
   positioned within the gap of the two electrodes such that it provides a shorter gap
   distance to one of the electrodes so that electrical breakdown will occur at a lower
   voltage than that if the Gabriel electrode were not present. The Gabriel electrode
                                               16

    101 Oc is connected through a series resistor (not shown, but typically on the order of
   a few mega ohms resistance). The function of the Gabriel electrode 1010c is to
   initiate an ionized column of gas at a more precise voltage level to start the
   formation of the arc in the gap. The resistor then limits the current through this
 5 electrode so that the arc current is carried through the conductors 1005a-b of the
   Jacob's ladder 1004. The Gabriel electrode 1010c thereby provides a smaller range
   of voltages over which the spark gap 1006 fires and the assembly 1000 enters its
   protection mode.
                    Figure 1OC is another perspective view of the overvoltage protection
10 assembly 1000. The standoffs 1012a-b are coupled to the support elements 1013a-b.
   Generally, the support elements 1013a-b are rigid and are formed from an insulating
   material, such as concrete. The standoffs 1012a-b and support elements 1013 are
   configured to secure the conductors 1005a-b. This helps stabilize the conductors
    1005a-b against the forces generated when an arc current forms. Accordingly, use
15 of such standoffs 1012a-b and support elements 1013 may be advantageous in
   circumstances where the current across the spark gap is great, for example up to
   60,000 amps or more, which might otherwise cause substantial Lorentz forces and
   resulting damage to the assembly.
                    Additionally, in the embodiment shown, the spacing between the
20 conductors 1005a-b is further secured by the insulators 1014a-b. The insulators
   10 14a-b are rigid and formed from an insulating material, such as concrete. The
   insulators 1014a-b are configured to secure the spacing between the conductors
   1005a-b and, accordingly, the width of the spark gap 1006.
                    Referring now to Figures 11A-B, conductors 1 l0la-b of a Jacob's
25 ladder 1100 are shown, according to an example embodiment. The conductors
   110 la-b have electrodes (shown in detail in Figure 1 IB), and are configured to be
   used in the overvoltage protection systems described throughout this application.
   The conductors 1101 a-b include lower portions 1102a-b and upper portions 1103a-b.
                    Generally, the materials selected for the conductors 110 1a-b should
30 have at least some of the following properties: high conductivity, stiffness, a high
   melting point to withstand the plasma energy that will be dissipated during arcing
   events, and the ability to be molded into the shape of a Jacob's ladder 1100. For
   example, some materials having these properties to varying degrees include
                                               17

    tungsten, tungsten/copper alloy, niobium, and copper. Because the demands on the
    material used in the lower portions 11 02a-b are different from the demands upon the
    material used to form the upper portions 1103 a-b, a different material may be used
    to form the lower portions 1102a-b than is used to form the upper portions 1103a-b.
 5                   Generally, in the embodiment disclosed the lower portions 1102a-b
    are cylindrical, include an angled portion, and are configured to form a spark gap
    1106 there between. In some embodiments, the diameter of the lower portions
    1102a-b is 3/8 inch. Other embodiments are possible utilizing other cross-sectional
    shapes, or otherwise utilizing different diameters of electrodes. In some
10  embodiments, the subtended angle of the conductors 110la-b below the gap 1106 is
    larger than the subtended angle between the conductors 110 la-b above the gap 1106
    so that the arc will move "up" the ladder. The subtended angle of the conductors
    above the gap 1106 should be sufficiently small to ensure that the arc does in fact
   move away from the connections at which equipment is protected. For example, a
15  subtended angle between the conductors 110 1a-b above the gap 1106 in the range of
    50 to 80 degrees would be suitable for most high current arc applications. In some
    embodiments, the lower portions 1102a-b are formed from copper because it is
    amenable to forming the angled shape of the lower portion using forming die and
   pressing techniques. The methods of forming the shape of the lower portions 1102a
20 b using tungsten, tungsten/copper alloy, or niobium are more difficult.
                    Generally, the upper portions 1103 a-b are cylindrical, straight, and
   configured to withstand the energy dissipated by an arcing event. In some
   embodiments, the diameter of the upper portions 1103a-b is 3/8 inch. Other
   embodiments are possible. In some embodiments the upper portions 1103a-b are
25 formed from tungsten because tungsten has a high melting point. In other
   embodiments, the upper components are formed from tungsten/copper alloy or
   niobium. Tungsten, tungsten/copper alloy, and niobium have higher melting points
   and are stiffer than copper and thus allow the upper portions 1103 a-b to withstand
   the energy dissipated by arcing events better than would many other conductive
30 materials, such as copper.
                    In the embodiment shown, the lower portions 11 02a-b are joined to
   the upper portions 1103 a-b using a silver soldering process. The lower ends 1105 a
   b of the upper portions 1103 a-b are machined to have a spherical surface. The upper
                                               18

   ends of the lower portions 11 02a-b are machined to accept the spherical surface of
   the lower end of the upper portions 1103a-b. In this manner, the conductors 110 la-b
   are formed using two different materials using common manufacturing techniques.
   In addition, conductors 1101 a-b have a superior ability to withstand the energy
 5 dissipated by arcing events than if the conductors 1101 a-b were formed from copper
   alone.
                   Figure 12 is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection assembly
   1200 according to another example embodiment. The assembly 1200 includes
   conductors 1201 a-b and a spark gap 1206.
10                 Generally, the conductors 1201 a-b are large-diameter, cylindrical
   rods with electrode ends 1202a-b having spherical surfaces. The diameter of the
   conductors 120la-b is selected based on the expected arc current for a given
   application of the overvoltage protection assembly 1200. The conductors 120 1a-b
   are disposed horizontally such that the electrode ends 1202a-b are adjacent to one
15 another. The electrode ends 1202a-b are separated by the spark gap 1206. In some
   embodiments, the conductors 1201 a-b are formed from tungsten. In other
   embodiments, the conductors 1201 a-b are formed from a different material with a
   high melting point, such as tungsten/copper alloy or niobium. In other
   embodiments, other materials may be used as well. Due to the spherical surfaces of
20 electrode ends 1202a-b of the conductors 120 1a-b, the arc will move around the
   spherical surfaces and will not ablate a single spot on the surface. Accordingly, in
   this embodiment the overvoltage protection assembly 1200 has a long life and may
   be reused for many ground fault events. In some embodiments, a Gabriel electrode
   is included in the spark gap 1206 to initiate the arc as has been described above.
25                 In other embodiments, the conductors 1201 a-b are not positioned
   horizontally but instead are positioned at an angle with respect to each other. In this
   manner, when the arc forms in the spark gap 1206, it will move upward on the
   spherical surfaces due to the Lorentz force as has been described above. This
   movement of the arc will allow for better dissipation of the arc energy and less
30 ablation of the electrode material. In some embodiments, a Gabriel electrode is also
   included in the spark gap 1206 to initiate the arc at a given voltage as has been
   described above.
                                               19

                     In some embodiments, springs 1203a-b are used in mounting the
   conductors 1201a-b to respective mounts 1204a-b. In such embodiments, the
   springs 1203a-b can compress and allow conductors 120 la-b to recoil away from
   one another. During normal operation, the two springs 1203a-b hold the conductors
 5  1201 a-b in normal positions, pointing at each other with an initial small gap there
   between. In cases where large electrical forces between the electrodes occur, a force
   between the electrodes will cause the electrodes to recoil, allowing for faster
   dissipation of the electrical effect, or arcing, between the electrodes. This will
   provide additional protection against damage to the electrodes in the event of arcing,
10 since the arcing can be quickly dissipated.
                     Figure 13A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly 1300 according to another example embodiment. The assembly 1300
   includes a Jacob's ladder 1304, a spark gap 1306, and support structure 1312.
                     The Jacob's ladder 1304 includes conductors 1305a-b, which form
15 electrodes 1310a-b. The Jacob's ladder 1304 is similar to the Jacob's ladder 1004
   that is illustrated and described in greater detail with respect to Figures 10A-B. In
   some embodiments, the conductors 1305a-b have a diameter of 1-1.5 inches and a
   length of 10-18 inches. In some embodiments, the conductors 1305a-b are formed
   from a copper/tungsten alloy.
20                   In the embodiment shown, the spark gap 1306 is similar to the spark
   gap 1006 that is illustrated and described in greater detail with respect to Figures
    10A-B. In some embodiments of the assembly 1300, the width of the spark gap
    1306 is 2-3 mm.
                     In example embodiments, the support structure 1312 is a physical
25 structure formed from a rigid insulating material, such as ceramic or molded
   concrete, and is configured to support the conductors 1305a-b. During large ground
   fault currents, the conductors 1305a-b may carry extremely large currents (e.g., up to
   60,000 amps or more), which may generate large Lorentz forces on the conductors
   1305a-b. The support structure is configured to support and stabilize the conductors
30 1305a-b so that the conductors 1305a-b are less likely to be pushed apart or twisted
   by the Lorentz forces. Additionally, the support structure 1312 is configured to
   prevent or minimize the conductors 1305 a-b from moving or warping. The support
   structure 1312 increases the mechanical stability of the Jacob's ladder 1304 and
                                                20

    hence creates a more stable spark gap distance and a more consistent gap breakdown
    voltage.
                    The support structure 1312 includes base 1313, support walls 1314a
    b, lower clamps 1315a-b, middle clamps 1316a-b, and upper clamps 1317a-b.
 5  Additionally, in some embodiments, the support walls 1314a-b include apertures
    1318a-b. In some embodiments, the base 1313, the support walls 1314a-b and the
    lower clamps 1315a-b are formed from a rigid conducting material The middle
    clamps 1316a-b are formed from an electrically insulating material. The upper
    clamps 1317a-b are formed integrally from a rigid conducting or insulating material.
10  In other embodiments, the support structure 1312 is formed from multiple
    independent components that are coupled together with one or more fasteners, such
    as adhesives or screws.
                    In embodiments, the base 1313 is a rigid structure that provides
    strength to resist bending so that the conductors 1305a-b cannot be pushed apart by
15 the Lorentz forces generated between conductors 1305a-b.
                    The support walls 1314a-b are formed from a rigid insulating
   material and are configured to support and secure the lower clamps 1315a-b, the
   middle clamps 1316a-b, and the upper clamps 1317a-b. Additionally, the support
   walls 1313a-b provide lateral support to prevent the conductors 1305a-b from
20 twisting when subject to large Lorentz forces.
                    The apertures 1318a-b are openings in the support walls 1314a-b.
   The apertures 1318a-b are adjacent to the spark gap 1306 and are configured to
   allow the plasma blast that is created by the initial arc formed in the spark gap 1306
   to escape. In this manner, the apertures 1318a-b allow the pressure created by the
25 plasma blast to be released without damaging the support structure 1312.
                    Figure 13B is an perspective view of the inside of the overvoltage
   protection assembly 1300. In this figure, the support wall 1314a is not shown so
   that the inside of the overvoltage protection assembly 1300 is visible.
                    The lower clamps 1315a-b are devices to secure the bottom of the
30 conductors 1305a-b. In some embodiments, the lower clamps 1315a-b each includes
   a hole in which the bottom of its respective conductor 1305a or 1305b is disposed.
   In this manner, the lower clamps 1315a-b each fully surrounds its respective
                                               21

   conductor 1305a or 1305b to provide increased stability and resistance to Lorentz
   forces.
                   In some embodiments, the lower clamps 1315a-b are separated by a
   gap 1319. The gap 1319 is sufficiently large enough to prevent the arcing across
 5 this gap between the lower clamps 1315a-b.
                   The middle clamps 1316a-b are devices to secure the middle of the
   conductors 1305a-b. In some embodiments, the middle clamps 1316a-b include one
   or more support surfaces configured to abut the surface of the conductors 1305a-b.
   In some embodiments, the support surfaces abut approximately half of the outer
10 surface of the conductors 1305a-b. In this manner, the middle clamps 1316a-b
   support the conductors 1305a-b, but do not interfere with the formation of the arc in
   the spark gap 1306 or impede the arc from travelling up the conductors 1305a-b.
   Additionally, in some embodiments, the middle clamps 1316a-b do not abut the
   conductors 1305a-b at the spark gap 1306. In this manner, the middle clamps
15 1316a-b allow space for the plasma blast to escape from the spark gap 1306.
                   The upper claims 1317a-b are devices to secure the top or a region
   near the top of the conductors 1305a-b. In some embodiments, the upper clamps
   1317a-b include one or more support surfaces configured to abut the surface of the
   conductors 1305a-b, In some embodiments, the support surfaces abut approximately
20 half of the outer surface of the conductors 1305a-b. In this manner, the upper
   clamps 1317a-b support the conductors 1305a-b, but do not impede the arc from
   travelling up the conductors 1305a-b.
                   In some embodiments, multiple assemblies, such as assembly 1300,
   are disposed in a container and connected in parallel to the same conductor buses.
25 During large ground fault currents, an arc current forms across the spark gap of one
   of the assemblies. The arc current forms in the assembly with the lowest breakdown
   voltage. The arc current may ablate a portion of the electrodes adjacent to the spark
   gap, causing the spark gap to widen and the breakdown voltage to increase. In some
   circumstances, the breakdown voltage increases beyond that of one of the other
30 assemblies. During a second large ground fault current, an are current then forms
   across the spark gap of one of the other assemblies. In this manner, overvoltage
   protection is provided over a longer lifetime than would be possible with a single
                                              22

     assembly. An example embodiment that includes parallel spark gaps is illustrated
     and described in greater detail with respect to Figures 14A-D.
                      Further, in some embodiments of assembly 1300, the conductors
     1305a-b are formed from multiple materials and are joined using silver soldering as
  5  is illustrated and described in greater detail with respect to Figures 11 A-B.
                      Figure 14A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
     assembly 1400 according to another example embodiment. The assembly 1400
     includes a plurality of subassemblies 1401a-c and circuit leads 1402a-b. The
     subassemblies are connected in parallel to the circuit leads 1402a-b. Additionally,
 10  each of the subassemblies 1401a-c includes a spark gap 1406a-c. Although there are
    three subassemblies shown in this figure, other embodiments include more or fewer
    subassemblies.
                      In some embodiments, the widths of the spark gaps 1406a-c are
    substantially the same. When a large ground fault current triggers the breakdown
 15 voltage of one of the spark gaps 1406a-c, a portion of the corresponding electrodes
    surrounding the spark gap ablates and the width of the spark gap increases. This
    increase in spark gap width will cause a corresponding increase in breakdown
    voltage. In some cases, the breakdown voltage of the spark gap after ablation
    caused by a large ground fault current will be greater than the breakdown voltage of
20  one of the other spark gaps. Accordingly, during the next large ground fault current,
    the arc will initiate in a different spark gap. In this manner, the assembly 1400 will
    have an increased lifespan and will withstand a greater number of large ground fault
    currents.
                      Figure 14B is a side view of the subassembly 1401 a of assembly
25   1400. The subassembly 1401a includes mounts 1404a-b, conductors 1405a-b,
    electrodes 1410a-b, insulators 1414a-b, and cylindrical shields 1416a-d.
                     The mounts 1404a-b are rigid support structures that are configured
    to secure and support the conductors 1405a-b at a desired angle. In some
    embodiments, the mounts are configured to position the conductors 1405a-b at an
30  angle of 2.5-20 degrees from vertical. The mounts 1404a-b are configured to
    withstand the Loretnz force generated between the conductors 1405a-b when an are
    current is formed.
                                                 23

                    Generally, the conductors 1405a-b are large-diameter, cylindrical
   rods with tapered ends that form electrodes 141 Oa-b. The diameter of the
   conductors 1405a-b is selected based on the expected arc current for a given
   application of the overvoltage protection assembly 1400. The conductors 1405a-b
 5 are angled towards each other, such that the electrodes 1410a-b are adjacent to one
   another. In some embodiments, the subtended angle between the conductors 1405a
   b is 5-40 degrees. The electrodes 1410a-b are separated by the spark gap 1406a.
                    In some embodiments, the conductors 1405a-b and the electrodes
    1410a-b are formed integrally from a rigid, conducting material with a high melting
10 point. For example, in some embodiments, the conductors 1405a-b and the
   electrodes 141 Oa-b are formed from a copper/tungsten alloy. In other embodiments,
   the conductors 1405a-b and the electrodes 141 Oa-b are formed from different
   materials such as tungsten, copper, and niobium. In some embodiments, a Gabriel
   electrode is included in the spark gap 1406 to initiate the arc as has been described
15 above.
                    Additionally, the spacing between the electrodes 1410a-b is further
   secured by the insulators 1414a-b. The insulators 1414a-b are rigid and formed
   from an insulating material, such as concrete. In some embodiments, the insulators
    1414a-b have a cylindrical shape. The insulators 1414a-b are configured to secure
20 the spacing between the mounts 1404a-b, the conductors 1405a-b, and the electrodes
    1410a-b, and accordingly, the width of the spark gap 1406 as well.
                    In some embodiments, cylindrical shields 1416a-d are included. The
   cylindrical shields are hollow cylinders that are disposed around the insulators
    1414a-b and are configured to interfere with the formation of a conductive path
25 (from deposited carbon or materials expelled during an arc) along the surface of the
   insulators 1414a-b. In some embodiments, the radius of each of the cylindrical
   shields 1416a-d is 0.5-1 inches greater than the radius of the insulators 1414a-b.
                    Figure 14C is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly 1400 according to another example embodiment. The assembly 1400
30 shown in Figure 14C is similar to the assembly 1400 shown in FIGS. 14A-B except
   that it does not include the cylindrical shields 1416a-d.
                   Figure 14D is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly 1400 according to another example embodiment. The assembly 1400
                                               24

    shown in Figure 14C is similar to the assembly 1400 shown in FIGS. 14A-B except
    that it additionally includes barriers 1417a-b.
                     The barriers 1417a-b are physical structures formed from an
    insulating material and are configured to separate the subassemblies 140 1a-c from
 5  each other. In some embodiments, the barriers 1417a-b are configured to prevent an
    arc current from forming between subassemblies 1401 a-c. Additionally, in some
    embodiments, the barriers 1417a-b are configured to prevent plasma and other
    material expelled from one of the subassemblies 1401a-c during an arc current from
    reaching the others of the subassemblies 1401 a-c.
10                   Figure 14E is a side view of conductors 1455a-b, electrodes 1460a-b,
    and spark gap 1456 according to another example embodiment. The conductors
    1455a-b are an alternate embodiment of the conductors 1405a-b, the electrodes
    1460a-b are an alternate embodiment of the electrodes 1410a-b, and the spark gap
    1456 is alternate embodiment of the spark gap 1406a. In some embodiments of
15  assembly 1400, some or all of assembly 1401a-c include the conductors 1455a-b, the
    electrodes 1460a-b, and the spark gap 1456 instead of the conductors 1405a-b, the
    electrodes 14 10a-b, and one of the spark gaps 1406a-c.
                     The conductors 1455a-b include upper portions 1468a-b and lower
   portions 1469a-b. Additionally, the conductors 1455a-b form electrodes 1460a-b,
20  which define the spark gap 1456a. The upper portions 1468a-b are angled away
    from each other such that after an arc forms in the spark gap 1456a, it will climb the
   upper portions 1468a-b and dissipate greater amounts of energy as it does so. In
    some embodiments, the upper portions 1468a-b have a length of 2.5 inches. In other
    embodiments, the upper portions 1468a-b are shorter or longer. In some
25  embodiments, the upper portions 1468a-b are formed from a different material than
   the lower portions 1469a-b. In these embodiments, the upper portions 1468a-b are
   joined to the lower portions 1469a-b using a silver soldering process, as has been
    illustrated and described with respect to Figures 1 lA-B.
                     In Figure 14E, the electrodes 1460a-b have a curved surface with a
30 radius R. In some embodiments, the radius R is 2 inches. In other embodiments, the
   radius R is 1-3 inches. In other embodiments of the electrodes 1460a-b, the radius R
   is smaller or larger.
                                                25

                    The electrodes 1460a-b are configured to initiate an arc current across
   the spark gap 1456a when the breakdown voltage of the spark gap 1456a is
   exceeded. As has been described previously, the breakdown voltage of the spark
   gap 1456a is based on its width. Often, material from the electrodes 1460a-b is
 5 ablated by the heat and plasma generated by the are current. This causes the spark
   gap 1456a to widen and consequently the break down voltage to increase. Due to
   the curved surfaces of electrodes 1460a-b, the arc will move around the curved
   surfaces and will only minimally ablate a single spot on the surface. Accordingly, in
   this embodiment the electrodes 1460a-b may have a long life and may be reused for
10 many ground fault events.
                    Figure 14F is a side view of conductors 1475a-b, electrodes 1480a-b,
   and spark gap 1476 according to another example embodiment. The conductors
    1475a-b are an alternate embodiment of the conductors 1405a-b, the electrodes
    1480a-b are an alternate embodiment of the electrodes 1410a-b, and the spark gap
15  1476 is alternate embodiment of the spark gap 1406a. In some embodiments of
   assembly 1400, some or all of assembly 1401a-c include the conductors 1475a-b, the
   electrodes 1480a-b, and the spark gap 1476 instead of the conductors 1405a-b, the
   electrodes 1480a-b, and one of the spark gaps 1406a-c.
                    The conductors 1475a-b include upper portions 1488a-b and lower
20 portions 1489a-b, The embodiment shown in Figure 14F is similar to the
   embodiment shown in Figure 14E, except that the surface of the electrodes 1480a-b
   are flat rather than curved. In some embodiments, the tops of the electrodes 1480a-b
   are separated by a smaller distance than the bottoms of the electrodes 1410a-b. For
   example, in some embodiments the tops of the electrodes 1480a-b are separated by a
25 first width WI and the bottoms of the electrodes 1480a-b are separated by a slightly
   larger second width W2. In some embodiments, the width WI is 3.9 millimeters
   and the width W2 is 4.3 millimeters. In some embodiments, the flat surfaces of the
   electrodes 1480a-b have a height H. In some embodiments, the height H is 1 inch.
   However, other embodiments with other heights and other first and second widths
30 are possible as well. During an initial high ground fault voltage, the arc current will
   form at the top of the electrodes 1480a-b. As material is ablated during high ground
   fault current events, the arc will start at lower positions in the spark gap 1476.
                                                 26

                   Figure 15A is a perspective view of an overvoltage protection
   assembly 1500 according to another example embodiment. The assembly 1500 is
   circular and includes a plurality of subassemblies 150 1a-c, circuit leads 1502a-b,
   lower plate 1503, upper plate 1504, stand-off insulators 1507a-c, and lower
 5 insulators 1523a-c. The subassemblies 150 1a-c are equally spaced around the
   assembly 1500, being separated from each other by a 120 degree angle, and are
   connected in parallel to the circuit leads 1502a-b. Additionally, each of the
   subassemblies 1501a-c includes a pair of conductors that form a pair of electrodes
   and a spark gap 1506a-c (these elements are best seen in Figure 15B). Although
10 there are three subassemblies shown in this figure, other embodiments include more
   or fewer subassemblies.
                   The lower plate 1503 is a round disc-like structure formed from a
   rigid conductive material. Similarly, the upper plate 1504 is also a round disc-like
   structure formed from a rigid conductive material. In some embodiments, one or
15 both of the lower plate 1503 and the upper plate 1504 are not round but instead have
   a different shape, such as a rectangle. The subassemblies 150la-c are disposed and
   secured between the lower plate 1503 and the upper plate 1504.
                   The stand-off insulators 1507a-c are rigid structures formed from a
   rigid insulating material and are configured to secure the upper plate 1504 to the
20 lower plate 1503. The upper plate 1504 is separated from the lower plate 1503 by
   the height of the stand-off insulators 1507a-c. In some embodiments, the stand-off
   insulators 1507a-c are 8 inches high and 4 inches in diameter. In other
   embodiments, the stand-off insulators 1507a-c are taller or shorter or have a
   different diameter.
25                 The lower insulators 1523a-c are rigid structures formed from a rigid
   insulating material and are configured to support the assembly 1500. The lower
   insulators 1523a-c are secured to the lower plate 1503.
                   Figure 15B is another perspective view of the overvoltage protection
   assembly 1500. In figure 15B, the upper plate 1504 is not shown to provide a
30 clearer view of the subassemblies 1501a-c and the stand-off insulators 1507a-c.
   Also shown are cylindrical shields 1513a-c and insulating discs 1514a-c.
                   The subassemblies 150 1a-c include upper conductors 1505a-c, lower
    conductors 1508a-c, and half-cylinder shields 1512a-c. In some embodiments, the
                                               27

   upper conductors 1505a-c and the lower conductors 1508a-c have a diameter of 1
    1.5 inches. The upper conductors 1505a-c and the lower conductors 1508a-c are
   oriented vertically. The bottom of the upper conductors 1505a-c form upper
   electrodes 1510a-c. Similarly, the top of the lower conductors 1508a-c form lower
 5 electrodes 1511 a-c. The spark gaps 1506a-c are vertical gaps formed between the
   upper electrodes 151 Oa-c and the lower electrodes 1511 a-c in each of the
   subassemblies 1501a-c. The lower conductors 1508a-c are secured to the lower
   plate with lower clamps 1517a-c (best seen in Figures 15C-D). The lower clamps
    1517a-c can be used to individually adjust the height of the lower conductors 1508a
10 c and consequently the size of the spark gaps 1506a-c. In some embodiments, the
   assembly 1500 is configured so that each of the spark gaps 1506a-c has a different
   size and consequently a different breakdown voltage. Additionally, in some
   embodiments, the upper conductors 1505a-c are raised or lowered using upper
   clamps 1515a-c instead of or in addition to raising or lowering the lower conductors
15  1508a-c.
                   The half-cylinder shields 1512a-c are physical structures with the
   shape of a hollow half-cylinder and are formed from either a conducting an
   insulating material. The half-cylinder shields 1512a-c are disposed around the inner
   side of the upper conductors 1505a-c. The half-cylinder shields 1512a-c are
20 configured to prevent the arc from one subassembly from initiating an arc in another
   subassembly. The half-cylinder shields 1512a-c are also configured to prevent
   plasma and materials that are expelled when an arc is formed from reaching the
   stand-off insulators 1507a-c. Additionally, the half-cylinder shields 1512a-c direct
   the blast created when an arc current forms towards the outside of the assembly
25 1500. The half-cylinder shields 1512a-c are oriented vertically and are secured to
   and hang down from the upper plate 1504. The half-cylinder shields 1512a-c do not
   extend to the lower plate 1503 and thus do not provide a surface upon which a
   conductive path (i.e., short circuit) could form from materials deposited during arc
   events.
30                 The cylindrical shields 1513a-c are physical structures with the shape
   of a hollow cylinder and are formed from either a conducting or an insulating
   material. The cylindrical shields 1513a-c are disposed around the stand-off
   insulators 1507a-c. The cylindrical shields 1513a-c are configured to prevent
                                               28

   plasma and materials that are expelled when an arc is formed in the subassemblies
    1501a-c from depositing on the stand-off insulators 1507a-c. The cylindrical shields
    1513a-c are oriented vertically and are secured to and hang down from the upper
   plate 1504. The cylindrical shields 1513 a-c do not extend to the lower plate 1503
 5 and thus do not provide a surface upon which a conductive path (i.e., short circuit)
   could form from materials deposited during arc events.
                   The insulating discs 1514a-c are disc-shaped physical structures that
   are disposed between the cylindrical shields 1513a-c and the upper plate 1504 and
   are formed from an insulating material. In some alternative embodiments, other
10 types of discs could be used, such as conductive discs. In some embodiments, the
   insulating discs 1514a-c are 0.5-1 inches thick. The insulating discs 1514a-c are
   configured to further minimize or eliminate the possibility that a conduction path
   will form between the upper plate 1504 and the lower plate 1503 due to the materials
   emitted during arc events.
15                 Figures 15C-D are perspective views from below of the assembly
    1500. The upper plate 1504 is not shown in these figures. The roof 1519 and the
   adjustment mechanism 1518a of the lower clamp 1517a are shown in this figure.
                   The roof 1519 is a cone-shape physical structure and is configured to
   prevent rain and snow from entering the assembly 1500.
20                 The adjustment mechanism 1518a is a component of the lower clamp
    1517a and is configured to adjustably control the tightness of the lower clamp
    1517a. When the lower clamp 1517a is loosened using the adjustment mechanism
    1518a, the position of the lower conductor 1508a may be adjusted. When the lower
   clamp 1517a is tightened using the adjustment mechanism 1518a, the lower
25 conductor 1508a is held securely in place and cannot be moved or adjusted. In some
   embodiments, the adjustment mechanism 1518a includes thumb screws. Other
   embodiments of adjustment mechanism 1518a are possible as well. The lower
   clamps 1517b-c include adjustment mechanisms as well.
                   Figure 15E is a perspective view from below of the roof 1519 and the
30 cage 1520 of the assembly 1500. The cage 1520 is a physical structure that
   surrounds the subassemblies 1501a-c and is configured to prevent people and objects
   from touching the subassemblies 1501a-c. In some embodiments, the cage 1520 is
                                              29

   not solid, but has openings to permit pressure, material, and gasses that are released
   during an are event to escape.
                   Figure 15F is a perspective view of the cage 1520 of the assembly
   1500. The cage is formed from rings 1521a-b, which are joined by a plurality of
 5 columns, including columns 1522a-c. Other embodiments of cage 1520 are possible
   as well.
                   Figure 16 is a circuit diagram of an overvoltage protection system
   1600 according to another example embodiment. The system 1600 includes
   overvoltage protection assembly 1601 and self-testing assembly 1602. Using the
10 self-testing assembly 1602 a power system operator can ensure that the assembly
   1601 will provide protection if a ground fault occurs after the thyristor (or the MOV)
   has failed to operate.
                   The assembly 1601 is a system configured to protect power systems
   from overvoltage events. In some embodiments, the assembly 1601 is attached the
15 transformer neutral line. In some embodiments, the assembly 1601 is a spark gap.
   In other embodiments, the assembly 1601 is one of the other assemblies disclosed
   herein.
                   The self-testing assembly 1602 includes a voltage source 1603,
   voltage probe 1604, a fuse 1605, and a current probe 1606. Some embodiments do
20 not include the current probe 1606.
                   The voltage source 1603 is a voltage source capable of generating a
   high voltage. In some embodiments, the voltage source 1603 is an AC voltage
   source.
                   In operation, the voltage source 1603 is used to apply a high voltage
25 but limited current to the assembly 1601 to allow measurement of the breakdown
   voltage of the assembly 1601. The voltage source 1603 increases the voltage being
   applied to the assembly 1601 over time. For example, in some embodiments, the
   voltage is increased over 0.2-0.5 seconds. When the breakdown occurs, only a
   limited current from the voltage source 1603 will be allowed to flow through the
30 assembly 1601. In some embodiments, this is achieved by using a voltage source
   1603 that is not capable of supplying large currents, such as some AC voltage
   sources.
                                               30

                     The breakdown voltage of the spark gap can be determined by
     monitoring the voltage with the voltage probe 1604 as the voltage is increased to
     determine the voltage level at which breakdown occurs. In this manner, the
     operation of the assembly 1601 can be verified and confirmed to meet the specified
  5  breakdown voltage requirements. In some embodiments, the determined breakdown
    voltage is then sent to the power system operator and/or to the supervisory control
     and data acquisition (SCADA) system.
                     In the rare case that the assembly 1601 is activated by a power system
     ground fault, the fuse 1605 opens to protect the voltage source 1603.
 10                  In alternate embodiments, the voltage source 1603 is a DC voltage
    source, which is also configured to increase the voltage over time (e.g., over 0.2-0.5
    seconds in some embodiments). In this embodiment, the current probe 1606
    monitors the current and deactivates the voltage source 1603 when a current is
    detected.
15                   Referring to Figures 1-16 generally, it is noted that in alternative
    embodiments, one or more of the features of the arrangement may be excluded. For
    example, in one possible embodiment, the surge arrester and Jacob's ladder may be
    integrated. In a further example embodiment, the surge arrester and spark gap could
    be used in combination, in the absence of the Jacob's ladder configuration extending
20  from the spark gap. In such embodiments, arcs formed in the spark gap can be used
    to discharge electrical energy, but are not easily carried away from the spark gap
    once formed. It is further recognized that other implementations of this concept
    could be developed which in principle employ a set or subset of similar components
    which are arranged in a parallel electrical connection to provide protection for other
25  components.
                    The above specification, examples and data provide a complete
    description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since
    many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit
    and scope of the invention, the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.
30
                                                 31

    1002070358
    CLAIMS:
    1.         An electrical protection device comprising:
               a first electrical connection;
  5            a second electrical connection;
               an electrical discharge device, including:
                       a first conductive bus connected to the first electrical connection and a second
              conductive bus connected to the second electrical connection, the electrical discharge
              device forming a spark gap between a first electrode of the first conductive bus and a
 10           second electrode of the second conductive bus, each of the first and second electrodes at
             least partially constructed from an ablation-resilient material, the first and second
              electrodes each having a generally cylindrical structure of a predetermined diameter and
              converging to form the spark gap, the spark gap including:
                       a breakdown region comprising a vertically-oriented trapezoidal region defined
 15          by a gap height, a first gap width, and a second gap width, wherein a difference between
             the first gap width and the second gap width is less than the predetermined diameter and
             the gap height is greater than at least the second gap width; and
                       a pair of arcing horns extending angularly therefrom,
                       wherein the breakdown region is formed between a generally vertical region of
  0          the first electrode and a generally vertical region of the second electrode, the generally
             vertical region of the first electrode being defined by a lower corner adjacent to a
             converging region of the first electrode and an upper corner adjacent to the arcing horn of
             the first electrode, the generally vertical region of the second electrode being defined by a
             lower corner adjacent to a converging region of the second electrode and an upper corner
25           adjacent to the arcing horn of the second electrode, a gap between the generally vertical
             region of the first electrode and the generally vertical region of the second electrode has a
             gradual linearly decreasing width from a widest point having the first gap width to a
             narrowest point nearer the pair of arcing horns having the second gap width, the second
             gap width being selected to form an electrical are in air at a breakdown voltage of at least
30            10,000 volts,
                       wherein, upon formation of the electrical arc in the first breakdown region, an
             electrical current passes between the first electrode and the second electrode and is
                                                         32

    1002070358
              discharged over a plurality of cycles at a power line frequency across the pair of arcing
              horns non-destructively; and
              a support structure comprising:
                       a plurality of mounts constructed to withstand a Lorentz force generated in the
  5           event the electrical current exceeds a peak value of at least 60,000 amps during the
              plurality of cycles at the power line frequency; and
                       a plurality of supporting insulator elements rigidly stabilizing the electrical
              discharge device and constructed to withstand the Lorentz force.
  0 2.          The electrical protection device of claim 1, wherein the first and second electrical
    connections are connected to an electrical system.
    3.          The electrical protection device of claim 1, further comprising a self-test assembly
    electrically connected in parallel with the electrical discharge device and useable to detect the
 15 breakdown voltage between an electrical component and ground, wherein the self-test assembly
    includes a voltage source, a fuse, and a voltage probe.
    4.          The electrical protection device of claim 1, wherein the self-test assembly further
    includes a current probe.
 ?0
    5.          The electrical protection device of claim 1, wherein the ablation-resilient material
    comprises a tungsten alloy.
    6.          The electrical protection device of claim 1, wherein the power line frequency comprises
25  60 Hz.
    7.          An electrical protection device comprising:
                a first electrical connection;
                a second electrical connection;
30              a spark gap formed between a first electrode and a second electrode, the first and second
    electrode each having a generally cylindrical structure of a predetermined diameter, the first
    electrode connected to the first electrical connection and the second electrode connected to the
    second electrical connection, wherein the first spark gap includes a breakdown region
                                                         33

   TUUZU/U6od
   comprising a vertically-oriented trapezoidal region defined by a gap height, a first gap width, and
   a second gap width, wherein a difference between the first gap width and the second gap width is
   less than the predetermined diameter and the gap height is greater than at least the second gap
   width, the second gap width selected to form an electrical arc in air at a first breakdown voltage
 5 of at least 10,000 volts, wherein the breakdown region is formed between a generally vertical
   region of the first electrode and a generally vertical region of the second electrode, the generally
   vertical region of the first electrode being defined by a lower corner adjacent to a converging
   region of the first electrode and an upper corner of the first electrode, the generally vertical
   region of the second electrode being defined by a lower corner adjacent to a converging region
 0 of the second electrode and an upper corner of the second electrode, a gap between the generally
   vertical region of the first electrode and the generally vertical region of the second electrode
   having a gradual linearly decreasing width from a widest point having the first gap width to a
   narrowest point having the second gap width nearer the pair of arcing horns,
              wherein a difference between the first gap width and the second gap width is less than the
 5 predetermined diameter and the gap height is greater than at least the second gap width;
              a pair of arcing horns extending from the spark gap and positioned to carry the electrical
   arc formed at the spark gap away from the spark gap over a discharge time duration of a plurality
   of cycles at a power line frequency non-destructively,
              wherein the pair of arcing horns includes a first arcing hom adjacent to the upper corner
 0 of the first electrode and a second arcing horn adjacent to the upper comer of the second
   electrode.
   8.           An overvoltage protection system comprising:
25            an overvoltage protection assembly including:
                a first electrical connection and a second electrical connection;
                a first electrical discharge device, including:
                        a first conductive bus connected to the first electrical connection and a second
              conductive bus connected to the second electrical connection, the first electrical
30            discharge device forming a spark gap between a first electrode of the first conductive bus
              and a second electrode of the second conductive bus each at least partially at least
              partially constructed from an ablation-resilient material and having a predetermined
                                                          34

    1002070358
             minimum diameter, the first and second electrodes converging to form the spark gap, the
             spark gap including:
                      a breakdown region; and
                      a pair of arcing horns extending angularly therefrom,
 5                    wherein the breakdown region is formed between a generally vertical region of
             the first electrode and a generally vertical region of the second electrode, the generally
             vertical region of the first electrode being defined by a lower corner adjacent to a
             converging region of the first electrode and an upper corner adjacent to the arcing horn of
             the first electrode, the generally vertical region of the second electrode being defined by a
 0           lower corner adjacent to a converging region of the second electrode and an upper corner
             adjacent to the arcing horn of the second electrode, a gap between the generally vertical
             region of the first electrode and the generally vertical region of the second electrode has a
             varying width of between 1 nm and 20 nm that is gradually linearly decreasing from a
             widest point to a narrowest point nearer the pair of arcing horns and a breakdown voltage
 5           of at least 10,000 volts,
                      wherein a difference between the widest point and the narrowest point in the
             breakdown region is less than the predetermined minimum diameter of either of the first
             or second conductive bus and the gap height is greater than at least the second gap width,
                      wherein, when a voltage differential between the first conductive bus and the
 .0          second conductive bus exceeds the first breakdown voltage, a first electrical current
             passes between the first conductive bus and the second conductive bus and is discharged
             over a discharge time duration of a plurality of cycles at a power line frequency non
             destructively; and
             a support structure comprising:
25                    a plurality of mounts constructed to withstand a Lorentz force generated based on
             a current through the spark gaps exceeding 60,000 amps;
                      a plurality of supporting insulator elements rigidly stabilizing the electrical
             discharge device.
30  9.         The overvoltage protection system of claim 8, wherein the first electrical connection is
    connected to a grounding terminal, and the second electrical connection is connected to a neutral
    of a transformer.
                                                         35

   1002070358
    10.       The overvoltage protection system of claim 7, wherein the first electrical connection is
   connected to a grounding terminal, and the second electrical connection is connected to a power
   transmission line.
 5 11.        An electrical protection circuit comprising:
            an overvoltage discharge device including a first electrode and an opposing second
   electrode, each of the first electrode and the opposing second electrode including a circuit lead, a
   spark gap region, and an extension leading to an ablating end;
            a circuit electrically connected across the first electrode and the opposing second
 0 electrode, the circuit electrically connected to the overvoltage discharge device and exposed to a
   possible electrical event having a breakdown voltage below 28kV and a current range of above
   8,000 amps over at least 60 milliseconds;
            wherein:
            the first electrode and the opposing second electrode form a spark gap at the opposed
 5 spark gap regions of the first electrode and the opposing second electrode, the opposed spark gap
   regions being spaced apart to form a spark in response to the electrical event;
            the circuit leads of the first and second electrodes connect to the circuit and angle towards
   each other at the spark gap regions;
            the extensions of the first and second electrodes extend from the spark gap regions and
 0 angle away from each other, leading to the respective ablating ends of the first and second
   electrodes; and
            the spark gap is shaped such that, in the event of an electrical event within a range of the
   possible electrical event, an arc forms at the spark gap, causing a Lorentz force to propel the arc
   away from the spark gap toward the ablating ends of the first and second electrodes, thereby
25 reducing ablation of the first electrode and the opposing second electrode at the spark gap
   regions to substantially maintain the breakdown voltage at the spark gap for repeated use of the
   spark gap in connection with electrical events corresponding to the possible electrical event.
   12.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, wherein the possible electrical event has a
30 duration of less than 800 milliseconds.
   13.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, wherein the spark gap has a first distance
   proximate to the circuit leads and a second distance proximate to the extensions, the second
                                                       36

   1002070358
   distance being less than the first distance, the difference between the first distance and the
   second distance being less than a thickness of the first and second electrodes.
   14.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, further comprising a second overvoltage
 5 discharge device electrically connected in parallel to the overvoltage discharge device, the
   second overvoltage discharge device including electrodes forming a second spark gap and being
   spaced apart at approximately a same distance as the spark gap of the overvoltage discharge
   device.
 0 15.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, wherein the electrical event has a current of
   up to 60,000 peak amperes.
   16.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, wherein the first electrode and second
   electrode are constructed at least partially from tungsten.
 5
   17.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, wherein the first electrode and the second
   electrode comprise a material formed from tungsten and copper.
   18.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, wherein the circuit includes a surge arrester
 o electrically connected between the first and second electrodes.
   19.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, wherein the first electrode is electrically
   connected to a grounding terminal and the second electrode is electrically connected to a power
   transmission line or to the neutral of a transformer.
25
   20.        The electrical protection circuit of claim 11, further comprising a support structure
   including a first mount for the first electrode, a second mount for the second electrode, and a
   plurality of insulators positioned between the first mount and the second mount to maintain the
   relative distance between the first electrode and second electrode, thereby maintaining the
30 narrowest distance, during overvoltage events causing an electrical arc at the spark gap region.
   21.        An electrical protection device comprising:
                                                       37

    1002070358
              a first electrode having a generally cylindrical shape of a predetermined diameter and
    forming a first angled portion, the first electrode having a first portion approaching the first
    angled portion from a first direction and a second portion extending from the first angled portion
    toward a second direction;
  5           a second electrode having a generally cylindrical shape and forming a second angled
    portion, the second electrode having a third portion approaching the second angled portion from
    a third direction and a fourth portion extending from the second angled portion toward a fourth
    direction;
              wherein:
  0           the first angled portion and second angled portion are positioned adjacent and opposed to
    one another to form a spark gap region, the spark gap region having a breakdown voltage defined
    by a narrowest distance between the first and second electrodes;
              the first angled portion and second angled portion form non-parallel opposing surfaces in
    the spark gap region defining a spark gap angle having (1) a same orientation as but narrower
  5 than a first electrode angle between the first direction and the third direction and (2) an opposite
    orientation from and narrower than a second electrode angle between the second direction and
    the fourth direction;
              the first angled portion and the second angled portion have a narrowest distance
    proximate to the second portion of the first electrode and the fourth portion of the second
 .0 electrode, respectively, and a widest distance proximate to the first portion of the first electrode
    and the third portion of the second electrode, respectively; and
              a difference between the narrowest distance and the widest distance of the spark gap
    region is smaller than the predetermined diameter of the first electrode.
25  22.         The electrical protection device of claim 21, wherein the second electrode has a
    diameter approximately the same as the predetermined diameter of the first electrode.
    23.         The electrical protection device of claim 21, wherein the predetermined diameter of the
    first electrode and the diameter of the second electrode are at least 25 millimeters.
30
    24.         The electrical protection device of claim 23, wherein the difference between the
    narrowest distance and the widest distance is less than a millimeter, and a height of the spark gap
    region is at least 25 millimeters.
                                                        38

    1002070358
    25.        The electrical protection device of claim 24, wherein the non-parallel surfaces of the
    first angled portion and the second angled portion are substantially planar non-parallel surfaces.
  5 26.        The electrical protection device of claim 21, wherein the first electrode angle is greater
    than the second electrode angle.
    27.        The electrical protection device of claim 21, wherein the first electrode and the second
    electrode are electrically connected to an electrical component to be protected against
  0 overvoltage events that exceed the breakdown voltage.
    28.        The electrical protection device of claim 21, further comprising a support structure
    including a first mount for the first electrode, a second mount for the second electrode, and a
    plurality of insulators positioned between the first mount and the second mount to maintain the
  5 relative distance between the first electrode and second electrode, thereby maintaining the
    narrowest distance, during overvoltage events causing an electrical arc at the spark gap region.
    29.        (Previously Presented) The electrical protection device of claim 21, wherein the circuit
    includes a surge arrester electrically connected between the first and second electrodes.
 )0
    30.        An electrical protection circuit comprising:
               the electrical protection device according to claim 21; and
               a second electrical protection device electrically connected in parallel with the electrical
    protection device.
25
                                                       39

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
