THERAPEUTIC NUCLEASE COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS
ABSTRACT
Hybrid nuclease molecules and methods for treating an immune-related disease or disorder in a
mammal, and a pharmaceutical composition for treating an immune-related disease in a
mammal.

                                               1
TITLE
[0001]    Therapeutic Nuclease Compositions and Methods.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/257,458,
filed November 2, 2009, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/370,752, filed August 4,
2010, the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for
all purposes. The present application is a divisional of AU<removed-apn>, which is a divisional
of AU2013203097, which is a divisional of AU2010313013, which is the national phase
entry of PCT/US2010/055131, the entire specifications of which are incorporated herein by
cross-reference.
STATEMENT REGARDING                   FEDERALLY         SPONSORED         RESEARCH          OR
DEVELOPMENT
[0003] This invention was made with support from the National Institutes of Health (Grants
A144257, NS065933, and AR048796), the Alliance for Lupus Research, and the Washington
State Life Science Discovery Fund (2087750).        The government has certain rights in the
invention.
REFERENCE TO A SEQUENCE LISTING
[0004] This application includes a Sequence Listing submitted electronically as a text file
named XXXXXPCT sequencelisting.txt, created on Month X, 20XX, with a size of X bytes.
The sequence listing is incorporated by reference.
BACKGROUND
[0005]            Excessive release of (ribo)nucleoprotein particles from dead and dying cells
can cause lupus pathology by two mechanisms: (i) Deposition or in situ formation of
chromatin / anti-chromatin complexes causes nephritis and leads to loss of renal function; and
(ii) nucleoproteins activate innate immunity through toll-like receptor (TLR) 7, 8, and 9 as
well as TLR-independent pathway(s). Release of nucleoproteins can serve as a potent
antigen for autoantibodies in SLE, providing amplification of B cell and DC activation
through co-engagement of antigen receptors and TLRs. Thus, there exists a need for a means
to remove inciting antigens and/or attenuate immune stimulation, immune amplification, and
immune complex mediated disease in subjects in need thereof.
SUMMARY
[0006] Disclosed herein is a hybrid nuclease molecule comprising a first nuclease domain
and an Fc domain, wherein the first nuclease domain is operatively coupled to the Fc domain.
In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule further includes a first linker domain,

and the first nuclease domain is operatively coupled to the Fe domain by the first linker
domain.
[0007] In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is a polypeptide, wherein the
amino acid sequence of the first nuclease domain comprises a human, wild-type RNase
amino acid sequence, wherein the first linker domain is (Gly4Ser)n, where n is 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 or
5, wherein the amino acid sequence of the Fc domain comprises a human, wild-type IgGI Fc
domain amino acid sequence, and wherein the first linker domain is coupled to the C
terminus of the first nuclease domain and the N-terminus of the Fc domain. In some
embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is a polypeptide comprising or consisting of a
sequence shown in Table 2. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 149. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule
is a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 145. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease
molecule is a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:161. In some embodiments, a hybrid
nuclease molecule is a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 162. In some embodiments, a
hybrid nuclease molecule is a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:163.
[0008] In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule comprises wild-type, human
DNasel linked to wild-type, human IgGI. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule
comprises human DNasel G105R Al 14F linked to a wild-type, human IgGI Fc domain by a
(gly4ser)n linker domain where n=O, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. In some embodiments, a hybrid
nuclease molecule comprises wild-type, human RNasel linked to wild-type, human IgGI
linked to wild-type, human DNase 1. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule
comprises wild-type, human RNase l linked to wild-type, human IgGI linked to human
DNasel G105R Al 14F. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is a polypeptide,
wherein the amino acid sequence of the first nuclease domain comprises a RNase amino acid
sequence, wherein the first linker domain is between 5 and 32 amino acids in length, wherein
the amino acid sequence of the Fc domain comprises a human, Fc domain amino acid
sequence, and wherein the first linker domain is coupled to the C-terminus of the first
nuclease domain and the N-terminus of the Fc domain. In some embodiments, the linker
domain includes (gly4ser)5 and restriction sites BglII, Agel, and XhoI. In some
embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is a polypeptide, wherein the amino acid sequence
of the first nuclease domain comprises a human RNase amino acid sequence, wherein the
first linker domain is a NLG peptide between 5 and 32 amino acids in length, wherein the
amino acid sequence of the Fc domain comprises a human, wild-type Fc domain amino acid
                                                   2

sequence, and wherein the first linker domain is coupled to the C-terminus of the first
nuclease domain and the N-terminus of the Fe domain.
[0009] In some embodiments, the Fe domain binds to an Fe receptor on a human cell. In
some embodiments, the serum half-life of the molecule is significantly longer than the serum
half-life of the first nuclease domain alone. In some embodiments, the nuclease activity of
the first nuclease domain of the molecule is the same or greater than the nuclease domain
alone. In some embodiments, administration of the molecule to a mouse increases the
survival rate of the mouse as measured by a mouse Lupus model assay.
[0010] In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes a leader sequence. In
some embodiments, the leader sequence is human VK3LP peptide from the human kappa
light chain family, and the leader sequence is coupled to the N-terminus of the first nuclease
domain.
[0011] In some embodiments, the molecule is a polypeptide. In some embodiments, the
molecule is a polynucleotide.
[0012] In some embodiments, the first nuclease domain comprises an RNase. In some
embodiments, the RNase is a human RNase. In some embodiments, the RNase is a
polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% similar to an RNase amino acid
sequence set forth in Table 2. In some embodiments, the RNase is a human RNase A family
member. In some embodiments, the RNase is a human pancreatic RNase1.
[0013] In some embodiments, the first nuclease domain comprises a DNase. In some
embodiments, the DNase is a human DNase. In some embodiments, the DNase is a
polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% similar to a DNase amino acid
sequence set forth in Table 2. In some embodiments, the DNase is selected from the group
consisting of human DNase I, TREXI, and human DNase 1L3.
[0014] In some embodiments, the Fe domain is a human Fe domain. In some embodiments,
the Fe domain is a wild-type Fe domain. In some embodiments, the Fe domain is a mutant Fe
domain. In some embodiments, the Fe domain is a human IgGI Fe domain. In some
embodiments, the Fe domain is a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least
90% similar to an Fe domain amino acid sequence set forth in Table 2.
[0015] In some embodiments, the first linker domain has a length of about 1 to about 50
amino acids. In some embodiments, the first linker domain has a length of about 5 to about
31 amino acids. In some embodiments, the first linker domain has a length of about 15 to
about 25 amino acids. In some embodiments, the first linker domain has a length of about 20
                                                    3

to about 32 amino acids. In some embodiments, the first linker domain has a length of about
20 amino acids. In some embodiments, the first linker domain has a length of about 25
amino acids. In some embodiments, the first linker domain has a length of about 18 amino
acids. In some embodiments, the first linker domain comprises a gly/ser peptide. In some
embodiments, the gly/ser peptide is of the formula (Gly 4 Ser)n, wherein n is a positive integer
selected from the group consisting of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. In some embodiments,
the gly/ser peptide includes (Gly 4 Ser)3. In some embodiments, the gly/ser peptide includes
(Gly 4 Ser)4. In some embodiments, the gly/ser peptide includes (Gly 4 Ser)5. In some
embodiments, the first linker domain includes at least one restriction site. In some
embodiments, the first linker domain includes about 12 or greater nucleotides including at
least one restriction site. In some embodiments, the first linker domain includes two or more
restriction sites. In some embodiments, the first linker domain includes a plurality of
restriction sites. In some embodiments, the first linker domain comprises an NLG peptide.
In some embodiments, the first linker domain comprises an N-linked glycosylation site.
[0016] In some embodiments, the first nuclease domain is linked to the N-terminus of the Fc
domain. In some embodiments, the first nuclease domain is linked to the C-terminus of the
Fc domain.
[0017] In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule further includes a second
nuclease domain. In some embodiments, the first and second nuclease domains are distinct
nuclease domains. In some embodiments, the first and second nuclease domains are the same
nuclease domains. In some embodiments, the second nuclease domain is linked to the C
terminus of the Fc domain. In some embodiments, the second nuclease domain is linked to
the N-terminus of the Fc domain. In some embodiments, the second nuclease domain is
linked to the C-terminus of the first nuclease domain. In some embodiments, the second
nuclease domain is linked to the N-terminus of the first nuclease domain.
[0018] Also disclosed herein is a dimeric polypeptide comprising a first polypeptide and a
second polypeptide, wherein the first polypeptide comprises a first nuclease domain, and an
Fc domain, wherein the first nuclease domain is operatively coupled to the Fc domain. In
some embodiments, the second polypeptide is a second hybrid nuclease molecule comprising
a second nuclease domain, and a second Fc domain, wherein the second nuclease domain is
operatively coupled to the second Fc domain.
                                                     4

[0019] Also disclosed herein is a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one hybrid
nuclease molecule and/or at least one dimeric polypeptide as described herein, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
[0020] Also disclosed herein is a nucleic acid molecule encoding a hybrid nuclease molecule
disclosed herein. Also disclosed herein is a recombinant expression vector comprising a
nucleic acid molecule disclosed herein. Also disclosed herein is a host cell transformed with
a recombinant expression vector disclosed herein.
[0021] Also disclosed herein is a method of making a hybrid nuclease disclosed herein,
comprising: providing a host cell comprising a nucleic acid sequence that encodes the hybrid
nuclease molecule; and maintaining the host cell under conditions in which the hybrid
nuclease molecule is expressed.
[0022] Also disclosed herein is a method for treating or preventing a condition associated
with an abnormal immune response, comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an
effective amount of an isolated hybrid nuclease molecule disclosed herein. In some
embodiments, the condition is an autoimmune disease. In some embodiments, the
autoimmune disease is selected from the group consisting of insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus, multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, rheumatoid
arthritis, experimental autoimmune arthritis, myasthenia gravis, thyroiditis, an experimental
form of uveoretinitis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary myxoedema, thyrotoxicosis,
pernicious anaemia, autoimmune atrophic gastritis, Addison's disease, premature menopause,
male infertility, juvenile diabetes, Goodpasture's syndrome, pemphigus vulgaris,
pemphigoid, sympathetic ophthalmia, phacogenic uveitis, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia,
idiopathic leucopenia, primary biliary cirrhosis, active chronic hepatitis Hbs-ve, cryptogenic
cirrhosis, ulcerative colitis, Sjogren's syndrome, scleroderma, Wegener's granulomatosis,
polymyositis, dermatomyositis, discoid LE, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and
connective tissue disease. In some embodiments, the autoimmune disease is SLE.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
[0023] These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present invention will
become better understood with regard to the following description, and accompanying
drawings, where:
[0024] Figure (FIG.) 1 shows the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of the mRNase
mIgG2a with mutations at P238S, K322S, and P331S. This sequence is listed in the
sequence listing as huVK3LP+mribl+mlgG2A-C-2S (SEQ ID NO:114).
                                                    5

[0025] FIG. 2 shows a schematic diagram of some embodiments of hybrid nuclease
molecules described herein.
[0026] FIG. 3 shows the SDS-PAGE gel analysis of mRNase-mlgG2a-c under both reducing
and non-reducing conditions.
[0027] FIG. 4 shows gel immunoprecipitation analysis of mRNasemIg2a-c.
[0028] FIG. 5 shows an anti-RNA antibody ELISA titer before and after intravenous
injection of RNase-Ig hybrid nuclease molecule from mouse 410. The data show that
injection of RNase-Ig caused a reduction in titer of anti-RNA antibody that persisted for over
3 weeks.
[0029] FIG. 6 shows that RNase-Ig addition abolished the induction of interferon-a from
human peripheral blood mononuclear cells stimulated using immune complexes formed with
serum from an SLE patient (J 11) plus nuclear extract (NE). Titer of anti-RNA antibody was
reduced after injection of RNase-Ig.
[0030] FIG. 7 shows that RNase-Ig addition abolished the induction of interferon-a from
human peripheral blood mononuclear cells stimulated using immune complexes formed with
serum from an SLE patient (JI 1) plus nuclear extract.
[0031] FIG. 8 shows single radial enzyme diffusion (SRED) analysis of serum from two
RNase transgenic (Tg) mice compared to a normal B6 mouse.
[0032] FIG. 9 shows the concentration of RNaseA in Tg and double Tg (DTg) mice
measured by ELISA. Each dot represents the concentration measured in an individual
mouse.
[0033] FIG. 10 shows survival of TLR7.1 Tg versus TLR7.1xRNaseA DTg mice
[0034] FIG. 11 shows quantitative PCR of IRGs in spleens of Tg versus DTg mice.
[0035] FIG. 12 shows a prototype structure for creating different embodiments of hybrid
nuclease molecules.
[0036] FIG. 13 shows the enzyme kinetics for hRNasel-G88D-hIgG1 SCCH-P238S-K322S
                                                                            TM
P33 IS hybrid nuclease molecules as measured using RNase Alert Substrate
[0037] FIG. 14 shows the binding of hRNasel-WT-hIgG1-WT to human monocytic cell lines
U937 and THP1. The peak on the left in both plots is control and the peak on the right in
both plots is hRNase l-WT-hIgG1-WT.
[0038] FIG. 15 shows the blocking activity of human IVIg for binding to U937 and THP-1
cells by hRNasel-WT-hIgG1-WT.
                                                   6

[0039] FIG. 16 shows the results of a DNA digestion assay by Trex1-(g4s)n-mIgG
alternative forms.
[0040] FIG. 17 shows the results of a Western Blot for trex1-(Gly4S)4-Ig and trexI
(Gly4S)5-Ig culture supernatants from COS-7 transient transfections.
[0041] FIG. 18 shows DNA digestion patterns by different stably transfected CHO DG44
clones designated as 2A3, 3A5, and 8H8, expressing DNAse1L3-mIgG2a-c hybrid nuclease
molecules.
[0042] FIG. 19 shows DNA digestion patterns of decreasing amounts of DNase1L3-Ig hybrid
nuclease molecules after various incubation times with and without heparin as an enzyme
inhibitor.
[0043] FIG. 20 shows a Western blot of immuneprecipitated fusion proteins from transiently
transfected COS cells expressing different embodiments of hRNasel-Ig-hDNasel or
hDNasel-Ig hybrid nuclease molecules.
[0044] FIG. 21 shows SRED analysis to assess the presence of RNase activity in the COS
supernatants expressing different embodiments of hRNasel-Ig-hDNase l or hDNasel-Ig
hybrid nuclease molecules.
[0045] FIG. 22 shows a composite figure displaying results of DNase nuclease activity
assays performed on COS supernatants from transfected cells. The description of the
numbering (e.g., 090210-8 and 091210-8) from FIG. 21 applies to this figure as well.
[0046] FIG. 23 shows enzyme kinetics assayed using the Rnase Alert Substrate
(Ambion/IDT) and fluorescence quantified with a Spectramax M2 microplate Reader. Data
was analyzed using Softmax Pro software (Molecular Devices). Reaction rates at different
substrate concentrations were measured and the data shown as a Lineweaver-Burk plot. The
apparent Km, corrected for volume is 280 nM.
[0047] FIG. 24 shows the levels of anti-RNA antibodies in mouse sera from H564 and H564
RNaseA double transgenic mice at successive intervals as the transgenic mice aged.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0048] Terms used in the claims and specification are defined as set forth below unless
otherwise specified. In the case of direct conflict with a term used in a parent provisional
patent application, the term used in the instant specification shall control.
[0049] "Amino acid" refers to naturally occurring and synthetic amino acids, as well as
amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function in a manner similar to the
naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally occurring amino acids are those encoded by the
                                                    7

genetic code, as well as those amino acids that are later modified, e.g., hydroxyproline, y
carboxyglutamate, and O-phosphoserine. Amino acid analogs refers to compounds that have
the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid, i.e., an a carbon that is
bound to a hydrogen, a carboxyl group, an amino group, and an R group, e.g., homoserine,
norleucine, methionine sulfoxide, methionine methyl sulfonium. Such analogs have modified
R groups (e.g., norleucine) or modified peptide backbones, but retain the same basic chemical
structure as a naturally occurring amino acid. Amino acid mimetics refers to chemical
compounds that have a structure that is different from the general chemical structure of an
amino acid, but that function in a manner similar to a naturally occurring amino acid.
[0050] Amino acids can be referred to herein by either their commonly known three letter
symbols or by the one-letter symbols recommended by the IUPAC-IUB Biochemical
Nomenclature Commission. Nucleotides, likewise, can be referred to by their commonly
accepted single-letter codes.
[0051] An "amino acid substitution" refers to the replacement of at least one existing amino
acid residue in a predetermined amino acid sequence (an amino acid sequence of a starting
polypeptide) with a second, different "replacement" amino acid residue. An "amino acid
insertion" refers to the incorporation of at least one additional amino acid into a
predetermined amino acid sequence. While the insertion will usually consist of the insertion
of one or two amino acid residues, the present larger "peptide insertions," can be made, e.g.
insertion of about three to about five or even up to about ten, fifteen, or twenty amino acid
residues. The inserted residue(s) may be naturally occurring or non-naturally occurring as
disclosed above. An "amino acid deletion" refers to the removal of at least one amino acid
residue from a predetermined amino acid sequence.
[0052] "Polypeptide," "peptide", and "protein" are used interchangeably herein to refer to a
polymer of amino acid residues. The terms apply to amino acid polymers in which one or
more amino acid residue is an artificial chemical mimetic of a corresponding naturally
occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally occurring amino acid polymers and non
naturally occurring amino acid polymer.
[0053] "Nucleic acid" refers to deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides and polymers
thereof in either single- or double-stranded form. Unless specifically limited, the term
encompasses nucleic acids containing known analogues of natural nucleotides that have
similar binding properties as the reference nucleic acid and are metabolized in a manner
similar to naturally occurring nucleotides. Unless otherwise indicated, a particular nucleic
                                                     8

acid sequence also implicitly encompasses conservatively modified variants thereof (e.g.,
degenerate codon substitutions) and complementary sequences and as well as the sequence
explicitly indicated. Specifically, degenerate codon substitutions can be achieved by
generating sequences in which the third position of one or more selected (or all) codons is
substituted with mixed-base and/or deoxyinosine residues (Batzer et al., Nucleic Acid Res.
19:5081, 1991; Ohtsuka et al., J. Biol. Chem. 260:2605-2608, 1985); and Cassol et al., 1992;
Rossolini et al., Mol. Cell. Probes 8:91-98, 1994). For arginine and leucine, modifications at
the second base can also be conservative. The term nucleic acid is used interchangeably with
gene, cDNA, and mRNA encoded by a gene.
[0054] Polynucleotides of the present invention can be composed of any polyribonucleotide
or polydeoxribonucleotide, which can be unmodified RNA or DNA or modified RNA or
DNA. For example, polynucleotides can be composed of single- and double-stranded DNA,
DNA that is a mixture of single- and double-stranded regions, single- and double-stranded
RNA, and RNA that is mixture of single- and double-stranded regions, hybrid molecules
comprising DNA and RNA that can be single-stranded or, more typically, double-stranded or
a mixture of single- and double-stranded regions. In addition, the polynucleotide can be
composed of triple-stranded regions comprising RNA or DNA or both RNA and DNA. A
polynucleotide can also contain one or more modified bases or DNA or RNA backbones
modified for stability or for other reasons. "Modified" bases include, for example, tritylated
bases and unusual bases such as inosine. A variety of modifications can be made to DNA and
RNA; thus, "polynucleotide" embraces chemically, enzymatically, or metabolically modified
forms.
[0055] As used herein, the term "hybrid nuclease molecule" refers to polynucleotides or
polypeptides that comprise at least one nuclease domain and at least one Fc domain. Hybrid
nuclease molecules are also referred to as fusion protein(s) and fusion gene(s). For example,
in one embodiment, a hybrid nuclease molecule can be a polypeptide comprising at least one
Fc domain linked to a nuclease domain such as DNase and/or RNase. As another example, a
hybrid nuclease molecule can include an RNase nuclease domain, a linker domain, and an Fc
domain. SEQ ID NO:161 is an example of a hybrid nuclease molecule. Other examples are
described in more detail below. In one embodiment a hybrid nuclease molecule of the
invention can include additional modifications. In another embodiment, a hybrid nuclease
molecule may be modified to add a functional moiety (e.g., PEG, a drug, or a label).
                                                    9

[0056] In certain aspects, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention can employ one or
more "linker domains," such as polypeptide linkers. As used herein, the term "linker domain"
refers to a sequence which connects two or more domains in a linear sequence. As used
herein, the term "polypeptide linker" refers to a peptide or polypeptide sequence (e.g., a
synthetic peptide or polypeptide sequence) which connects two or more domains in a linear
amino acid sequence of a polypeptide chain. For example, polypeptide linkers may be used
to connect a nuclease domain to an Fc domain. Preferably, such polypeptide linkers can
provide flexibility to the polypeptide molecule. In certain embodiments the polypeptide
linker is used to connect (e.g., genetically fuse) one or more Fc domains and/or one or more
nuclease domains. A hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention may comprise more than one
linker domain or peptide linker.
[0057] As used herein, the term "gly-ser polypeptide linker" refers to a peptide that consists
of glycine and seine residues. An exemplary gly/ser polypeptide linker comprises the amino
acid sequence Ser(Gly 4 Ser)n. In one embodiment, n=1. In one embodiment, n=2. In another
embodiment, n=3, i.e., Ser(Gly 4Ser)3. In another embodiment, n=4, i.e., Ser(Gly 4 Ser)4. In
another embodiment, n=5. In yet another embodiment, n=6. In another embodiment, n=7. In
yet another embodiment, n=8. In another embodiment, n=9. In yet another embodiment,
n=10. Another exemplary gly/ser polypeptide linker comprises the amino acid sequence
Ser(Gly 4 Ser)n. In one embodiment, n=1. In one embodiment, n=2. In a preferred
embodiment, n=3. In another embodiment, n=4. In another embodiment, n=5. In yet another
embodiment, n=6.
[0058] As used herein, the terms "linked," "fused", or "fusion", are used interchangeably.
These terms refer to the joining together of two more elements or components or domains, by
whatever means including chemical conjugation or recombinant means. Methods of chemical
conjugation (e.g., using heterobifunctional crosslinking agents) are known in the art.
[0059] As used herein, the term "Fc region" shall be defined as the portion of a native
immunoglobulin formed by the respective Fc domains (or Fc moieties) of its two heavy
chains.
[0060] As used herein, the term "Fc domain" refers to a portion of a single immunoglobulin
(Ig) heavy chain. As such, Fc domain can also be referred to as "Ig" or "IgG." In some
embodiments, an Fc domain begins in the hinge region just upstream of the papain cleavage
site and ending at the C-terminus of the antibody. Accordingly, a complete Fc domain
comprises at least a hinge domain, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain. In certain
                                                     10

embodiments, an Fe domain comprises at least one of: a hinge (e.g., upper, middle, and/or
lower hinge region) domain, a CH2 domain, a CH3 domain, a CH4 domain, or a variant,
portion, or fragment thereof In other embodiments, an Fe domain comprises a complete Fc
domain (i.e., a hinge domain, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain). In one embodiment, an Fc
domain comprises a hinge domain (or portion thereof) fused to a CH3 domain (or portion
thereof). In another embodiment, an Fc domain comprises a CH2 domain (or portion thereof)
fused to a CH3 domain (or portion thereof). In another embodiment, an Fc domain consists
of a CH3 domain or portion thereof. In another embodiment, an Fc domain consists of a
hinge domain (or portion thereof) and a CH3 domain (or portion thereof). In another
embodiment, an Fc domain consists of a CH2 domain (or portion thereof) and a CH3 domain.
In another embodiment, an Fc domain consists of a hinge domain (or portion thereof) and a
CH2 domain (or portion thereof). In one embodiment, an Fc domain lacks at least a portion of
a CH2 domain (e.g., all or part of a CH2 domain). In one embodiment, an Fc domain of the
invention comprises at least the portion of an Fc molecule known in the art to be required for
FcRn binding. In another embodiment, an Fc domain of the invention comprises at least the
portion of an Fc molecule known in the art to be required for FcyR binding. In one
embodiment, an Fc domain of the invention comprises at least the portion of an Fc molecule
known in the art to be required for Protein A binding. In one embodiment, an Fc domain of
the invention comprises at least the portion of an Fc molecule known in the art to be required
for protein G binding. An Fc domain herein generally refers to a polypeptide comprising all
or part of the Fc domain of an immunoglobulin heavy-chain. This includes, but is not limited
to, polypeptides comprising the entire CHI, hinge, CH2, and/or CH3 domains as well as
fragments of such peptides comprising only, e.g., the hinge, CH2, and CH3 domain. The Fc
domain may be derived from an immunoglobulin of any species and/or any subtype,
including, but not limited to, a human IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgD, IgA, IgE, or IgM
antibody. The Fc domain encompasses native Fc and Fc variant molecules. As with Fc
variants and native Fc's, the term Fc domain includes molecules in monomeric or multimeric
form, whether digested from whole antibody or produced by other means.
[0061] As set forth herein, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that any Fc
domain may be modified such that it varies in amino acid sequence from the native Fc
domain of a naturally occurring immunoglobulin molecule. In certain exemplary
embodiments, the Fc domain retains an effector function (e.g., FcyR binding).
                                                   11

[0062] The Fe domains of a polypeptide of the invention may be derived from different
immunoglobulin molecules. For example, an Fe domain of a polypeptide may comprise a
CH2 and/or CH3 domain derived from an IgGI molecule and a hinge region derived from an
IgG3 molecule. In another example, an Fc domain can comprise a chimeric hinge region
derived, in part, from an IgGI molecule and, in part, from an IgG3 molecule. In another
example, an Fc domain can comprise a chimeric hinge derived, in part, from an IgGI
molecule and, in part, from an IgG4 molecule.
[0063] A polypeptide or amino acid sequence "derived from" a designated polypeptide or
protein refers to the origin of the polypeptide. Preferably, the polypeptide or amino acid
sequence which is derived from a particular sequence has an amino acid sequence that is
essentially identical to that sequence or a portion thereof, wherein the portion consists of at
least 10-20 amino acids, preferably at least 20-30 amino acids, more preferably at least 30-50
amino acids, or which is otherwise identifiable to one of ordinary skill in the art as having its
origin in the sequence.
[0064] Polypeptides derived from another peptide may have one or more mutations relative
to the starting polypeptide, e.g., one or more amino acid residues which have been substituted
with another amino acid residue or which has one or more amino acid residue insertions or
deletions.
[0065] A polypeptide can comprise an amino acid sequence which is not naturally occurring.
Such variants necessarily have less than 100% sequence identity or similarity with the
starting hybrid nuclease molecules. In a preferred embodiment, the variant will have an
amino acid sequence from about 75% to less than 100% amino acid sequence identity or
similarity with the amino acid sequence of the starting polypeptide, more preferably from
about 80% to less than 100%, more preferably from about 85% to less than 100%, more
preferably from about 90% to less than 100% (e.g., 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
98%, 99%) and most preferably from about 95% to less than 100%, e.g., over the length of
the variant molecule.
[0066] In one embodiment, there is one amino acid difference between a starting polypeptide
sequence and the sequence derived therefrom. Identity or similarity with respect to this
sequence is defined herein as the percentage of amino acid residues in the candidate sequence
that are identical (i.e. same residue) with the starting amino acid residues, after aligning the
sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the maximum percent sequence
identity.
                                                      12

[0067] In one embodiment, a polypeptide of the invention consists of, consists essentially of,
or comprises an amino acid sequence selected from Table 2 and functionally active variants
thereof. In an embodiment, a polypeptide includes an amino acid sequence at least 80%,
81%, 82%, 83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
97%, 98%, or 99% identical to an amino acid sequence set forth in Table 2. In an
embodiment, a polypeptide includes a contiguous amino acid sequence at least 80%, 810%,
82%, 83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%,         8 8 %, 8 9 %, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
98%, or 99% identical to a contiguous amino acid sequence set forth in Table 2. In an
embodiment, a polypeptide includes an amino acid sequence having at least 10, 15, 20, 25,
30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 (or any
integer within these numbers) contiguous amino acids of an amino acid sequence set forth in
Table 2.
[0068] In an embodiment, the peptides of the invention are encoded by a nucleotide
sequence. Nucleotide sequences of the invention can be useful for a number of applications,
including: cloning, gene therapy, protein expression and purification, mutation introduction,
DNA vaccination of a host in need therof, antibody generation for, e.g., passive
immunization, PCR, primer and probe generation, siRNA design and generation (see, e.g.,
the Dharmacon siDesign website), and the like. In an embodiment, the nucleotide sequence
of the invention comprises, consists of, or consists essentially of, a nucleotide sequence
selected from Table 2. In an embodiment, a nucleotide sequence includes a nucleotide
sequence at least 80%, 81%, 82%, 83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%,
93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to a nucleotide sequence set forth in
Table 2. In an embodiment, a nucleotide sequence includes a contiguous nucleotide sequence
at least 80%, 81%, 82%, 83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%,
94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to a contiguous nucleotide sequence set forth in
Table 2. In an embodiment, a nucleotide sequence includes a nucleotide sequence having at
least 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400,
or 500 (or any integer within these numbers) contiguous nucleotides of a nucleotide sequence
set forth in Table 2.
[0069] Preferred hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention comprise a sequence (e.g., at
least one Fc domain) derived from a human immunoglobulin sequence. However, sequences
may comprise one or more sequences from another mammalian species. For example, a
primate Fc domain or nuclease domain may be included in the subject sequence.
                                                      13

Alternatively, one or more murine amino acids may be present in a polypeptide. In some
embodiments, polypeptide sequences of the invention are not immunogenic and/or have
reduced immunogenicity.
[0070] It will also be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the hybrid nuclease
molecules of the invention may be altered such that they vary in sequence from the naturally
occurring or native sequences from which they were derived, while retaining the desirable
activity of the native sequences. For example, nucleotide or amino acid substitutions leading
to conservative substitutions or changes at "non-essential" amino acid residues may be made.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a non-natural variant of a hybrid nuclease
molecule derived from an immunoglobulin (e.g., an Fc domain) can be created by introducing
one or more nucleotide substitutions, additions or deletions into the nucleotide sequence of
the immunoglobulin such that one or more amino acid substitutions, additions or deletions
are introduced into the encoded protein. Mutations may be introduced by standard
techniques, such as site-directed mutagenesis and PCR-mediated mutagenesis.
[0071] The peptide hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention may comprise conservative
amino acid substitutions at one or more amino acid residues, e.g., at essential or non-essential
amino acid residues. A "conservative amino acid substitution" is one in which the amino
acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain. Families of
amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art, including basic
side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic side chains (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic
acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g., glycine, asparagine, glutamine, serine, threonine,
tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline,
phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan), beta-branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine,
isoleucine) and aromatic side chains (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine).
Thus, a nonessential amino acid residue in a binding polypeptide is preferably replaced with
another amino acid residue from the same side chain family. In another embodiment, a string
of amino acids can be replaced with a structurally similar string that differs in order and/or
composition of side chain family members. Alternatively, in another embodiment, mutations
may be introduced randomly along all or part of a coding sequence, such as by saturation
mutagenesis, and the resultant mutants can be incorporated into binding polypeptides of the
invention and screened for their ability to bind to the desired target.
                                                      14

[0072] The term "ameliorating" refers to any therapeutically beneficial result in the treatment
of a disease state, e.g., an autoimmune disease state (e.g., SLE), including prophylaxis,
lessening in the severity or progression, remission, or cure thereof.
[0073] The term "in situ" refers to processes that occur in a living cell growing separate from
a living organism, e.g., growing in tissue culture.
[0074] The term "in vivo" refers to processes that occur in a living organism.
[0075] The term "mammal" or "subject" or "patient" as used herein includes both humans
and non-humans and include but is not limited to humans, non-human primates, canines,
felines, murines, bovines, equines, and porcines.
[0076] The term percent "identity," in the context of two or more nucleic acid or polypeptide
sequences, refer to two or more sequences or subsequences that have a specified percentage
of nucleotides or amino acid residues that are the same, when compared and aligned for
maximum correspondence, as measured using one of the sequence comparison algorithms
described below (e.g., BLASTP and BLASTN or other algorithms available to persons of
skill) or by visual inspection. Depending on the application, the percent "identity" can exist
over a region of the sequence being compared, e.g., over a functional domain, or,
alternatively, exist over the full length of the two sequences to be compared.
[0077] For sequence comparison, typically one sequence acts as a reference sequence to
which test sequences are compared. When using a sequence comparison algorithm, test and
reference sequences are input into a computer, subsequence coordinates are designated, if
necessary, and sequence algorithm program parameters are designated. The sequence
comparison algorithm then calculates the percent sequence identity for the test sequence(s)
relative to the reference sequence, based on the designated program parameters.
[0078] Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison can be conducted, e.g., by the local
homology algorithm of Smith & Waterman, Adv. Appl. Math. 2:482 (1981), by the
homology alignment algorithm of Needleman & Wunsch, J. Mol. Biol. 48:443 (1970), by the
search for similarity method of Pearson & Lipman, Proc. Nat'l. Acad. Sci. USA 85:2444
(1988), by computerized implementations of these algorithms (GAP, BESTFIT, FASTA, and
TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package, Genetics Computer Group, 575
Science Dr., Madison, Wis.), or by visual inspection (see generally Ausubel et al., infra).
[0079] One example of an algorithm that is suitable for determining percent sequence
identity and sequence similarity is the BLAST algorithm, which is described in Altschul et
                                                     15

al., J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410 (1990). Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly
available through the National Center for Biotechnology Information website.
[0080] The term "sufficient amount" means an amount sufficient to produce a desired effect,
e.g., an amount sufficient to modulate protein aggregation in a cell.
[0081] The term "therapeutically effective amount" is an amount that is effective to
ameliorate a symptom of a disease. A therapeutically effective amount can be a
"prophylactically effective amount" as prophylaxis can be considered therapy.
[0082] It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
         Compositions
                Hybrid nuclease molecules
[0083] In some embodiments, a composition of the invention includes a hybrid nuclease
molecule. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes a nuclease domain
operatively linked to an Fc domain. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule
includes a nuclease domain linked to an Fc domain. In some embodiments the hybrid
nuclease molecule is a nuclease protein. In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule
is a nuclease polynucleotide.
[0084] In some embodiments, the nuclease domain is linked to the Fc domain via a linker
domain. In some embodiments, the linker domain is a linker peptide. In some embodiments,
the linker domain is a linker nucleotide. In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule
includes a leader molecule, e.g., a leader peptide. In some embodiments, the leader molecule
is a leader peptide positioned at the N-terminus of the nuclease domain. In some
embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule will include a stop codon. In some
embodiments, the stop codon will be at the C-terminus of the Fc domain.
[0085] In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule further includes a second
nuclease domain. In some embodiments, the second nuclease domain is linked to the Fc
domain via a second linker domain. In some embodiments, the second linker domain will be
at the C-terminus of the Fc domain. Figure 12 shows at least one embodiment of a hybrid
nuclease molecule. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes a sequence
shown in Table 2.
                                                    16

[0086] In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is an RNase molecule or DNase
molecule or a multi-enzyme molecule (e.g., both RNase and DNase or two RNA or DNA
nucleases with different specificity for substrate) attached to an Fc domain that specifically
binds to extracellular immune complexes. In some embodiments, the Fc domain does not
effectively bind Fcy receptors. In one aspect, the hybrid nuclease molecule does not
effectively bind Cl q. In other aspects, the hybrid nuclease molecule comprises an in frame
Fc domain from IgGI. In other aspects, the hybrid nuclease molecule further comprises
mutations in the hinge, CH2, and/or CH3 domains. In other aspects, the mutations are
P238S, P33 1S or N297S, and may include mutations in one or more of the three hinge
cysteines. In some such aspects, the mutations in one or more of three hinge cysteines can be
SCC or SSS. In other aspects, the molecules contain the SCC hinge, but are otherwise wild
type for human IgGI Fc CH2 and CH3 domains, and bind efficiently to Fc receptors,
facilitating uptake of the hybrid nuclease molecule into the endocytic compartment of cells to
which they are bound. In other aspects, the molecule has activity against single and/or
double-stranded RNA substrates.
[0087] In some aspects, the activity of the hybrid nuclease molecule is detectable in vitro
and/or in vivo. In some aspects, the hybrid nuclease molecule binds to a cell, a malignant
cell, or a cancer cell and interferes with its biologic activity.
[0088] In another aspect, a multifunctional RNase molecule is provided that is attached to
another enzyme or antibody having binding specificity, such as an scFv targeted to RNA or a
second nuclease domain with the same or different specificities as the first domain.
[0089] In another aspect, a multifunctional DNase molecule is provided that is attached to
another enzyme or antibody having binding specificity, such as an scFv targeted to DNA or a
second nuclease domain with the same or different specificities as the first domain.
[0090] In another aspect, a hybrid nuclease molecule is adapted for preventing or treating a
disease or disorder in a mammal by administering an hybrid nuclease molecule attached to an
Fc region, in a therapeutically effective amount to the mammal in need thereof, wherein the
disease is prevented or treated. In other aspects, the disease or disorder is an autoimmune
disease or cancer. In some such aspects, the autoimmune disease is insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus, multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis,
rheumatoid arthritis, experimental autoimmune arthritis, myasthenia gravis, thyroiditis, an
experimental form of uveoretinitis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary myxoedema,
thyrotoxicosis, pernicious anaemia, autoimmune atrophic gastritis, Addison's disease,
                                                      17

premature menopause, male infertility, juvenile diabetes, Goodpasture's syndrome,
pemphigus vulgaris, pemphigoid, sympathetic ophthalmia, phacogenic uveitis, autoimmune
haemolytic anaemia, idiopathic leucopenia, primary biliary cirrhosis, active chronic hepatitis
Hbs-ve, cryptogenic cirrhosis, ulcerative colitis, Sjogren's syndrome, scleroderma,
Wegener's granulomatosis, polymyositis, dermatomyositis, discoid LE, systemic lupus
erythematosus, or connective tissue disease.
[0091] In some embodiments, the targets of the RNase enzyme activity of RNase hybrid
nuclease molecules are primarily extracellular, consisting of, e.g., RNA contained in immune
complexes with anti-RNP autoantibody and RNA expressed on the surface of cells
undergoing apoptosis. In some embodiments, the RNase hybrid nuclease molecule is active
in the acidic environment of the endocytic vesicles. In some embodiments, an RNase hybrid
nuclease molecule includes a wild-type (wt) Fc domain in order to, e.g, allow the molecule to
bind FcR and enter the endocytic compartment through the entry pathway used by immune
complexes. In some embodiments, an RNase hybrid nuclease molecule including a wt Fc
domain is adapted to be active both extracellularly and in the endocytic environment (where
TLR7 can be expressed). In some aspects, this allows an RNase hybrid nuclease molecule
including a wt Fc domain to stop TLR7 signaling through previously engulfed immune
complexes or by RNAs that activate TLR7 after viral infection. In some embodiments, the
wt RNase of an RNase hybrid nuclease molecule is not resistant to inhibition by an RNase
cytoplasmic inhibitor. In some embodiments, the wt RNase of an RNase hybrid nuclease
molecule is not active in the cytoplasm of a cell.
[0092] In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule including a wt Fc domain is used
for therapy of an autoimmune disease, e.g., SLE.
[0093] In some embodiments, Fc domain binding to an Fc receptor (FcR) is increased, e.g.,
via alterations of glycosylation and/or changes in amino acid sequence. In some
embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule has one or more Fc alterations that increase FcR
binding.
[0094] Alternative ways to construct a hybrid nuclease molecule attached to an Fc domain
are envisioned. In some embodiments, the domain orientation can be altered to construct an
Ig-RNase molecule or an Ig-DNase molecule or an RNase-Ig molecule or an RNase-Ig
molecule that retains FcR binding and has active nuclease domains.
[0095] In some embodiments, DNase hybrid nuclease molecules include a wt Fc domain that
can allow, e.g., the molecules to undergo endocytosis after binding FcR. In some
                                                    18

embodiments, the DNase hybrid nuclease molecules can be active towards extracellular
immune complexes containing DNA, e.g., either in soluble form or deposited as insoluble
complexes.
[0096] In some embodiments, hybrid nuclease molecules include both DNase and RNase. In
some embodiments, these hybrid nuclease molecules can improve the therapy of SLE
because they can, e.g., digest immune complexes containing RNA, DNA, or a combination of
both RNA and DNA; and when they further include a wt Fc domain, they are active both
extracellularly and in the endocytic compartment where TLR7 and TLR9 can be located.
[0097] In some embodiments, linker domains include (gly4ser) 3, 4 or 5 variants that alter
the length of the linker by 5 amino acid progressions. In another embodiment, a linker
domain is approximately 18 amino acids in length and includes an N-linked glycosylation
site, which can be sensitive to protease cleavage in vivo. In some embodiments, an N-linked
glycosylation site can protect the hybrid nuclease molecules from cleavage in the linker
domain. In some embodiments, an N-linked glycosylation site can assist in separating the
folding of independent functional domains separated by the linker domain.
[0098] In some embodiments, hybrid nuclease molecules can include both mutant and/or
wild type human IgGI Fc domains. In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules
can be expressed from both COS transient and CHO stable transfections. In some
embodiments, both the CD80/86 binding and the RNase activity are preserved in a hybrid
nuclease molecule. In some embodiments, hybrid nuclease molecules include DNase1L3-Ig
linker-RNase constructs. In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes a
DNasel-Ig-linker-RNase construct or an RNase-Ig-linker-DNase construct. In some
embodiments, fusion junctions between enzyme domains and the other domains of the hybrid
nuclease molecule is optimized.
[0099] In some embodiments, hybrid nuclease molecules include DNase-Ig hybrid nuclease
molecules and/or hybrid DNase-RNase hybrid nuclease molecules.
[00100]     In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes TREXI. In some
embodiments, a TREXI hybrid nuclease molecule can digest chromatin. In some
embodiments, a TREXI hybrid nuclease molecule is expressed by a cell. In some
embodiments, the expressed hybrid nuclease molecule includes murine TREX-1 and a murine
(wt or mutant) Fc domain. In some embodiments, a 20-25 amino acid (aa) linker domain
between TREXI and the IgG hinge can be required to allow DNase activity. In some
embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule with a 15 aa linker domain is not active. In some
                                                   19

embodiments, use of the 20 and 25 amino acid linker domains (plus 2 or more amino acids to
incorporate restriction sites) results in functional activity as measured by chromatin digestion.
In some embodiments, a hydrophobic region of approximately 72 aa can be removed from
the COOH end of TREX- 1 prior to fusion to the Fc domain via the linker domain. In some
embodiments, a 20 amino acid linker domain version of the hybrid nuclease molecule
exhibits high expression levels compared to controls and/or other hybrid nuclease molecules.
In some embodiments, kinetic enzyme assays are used to compare the enzyme activity of
hybrid nuclease molecules and controls in a quantitative manner.
[00101]     In some embodiments, further optimization of the fusion junction chosen for
truncation of a TREXI enzyme can be used to improve expression of the hybrid nuclease
molecules.
[00102]     In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule includes a human TREXI
linker-Ig Fc domain hybrid nuclease molecule with 20 and/or 25 aa linker domains. In some
embodiments, the linker domain(s) are variants of a (gly4ser)4 or (gly4ser)5 cassette with one
or more restriction sites attached for incorporation into the hybrid nuclease molecules
construct. In some embodiments, because of the head-to-tail dimerization useful for TREXI
enzyme activity; a flexible, longer linker domain can be used to facilitate proper folding.
[00103]     In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule is a TREXI-tandem hybrid
nuclease molecule. In some embodiments, an alternative method for facilitating head-to-tail
folding of TREXI is to generate a TREXI-TREXI-Ig hybrid hybrid nuclease molecule that
incorporates two TREXI domains in tandem, followed by a linker domain and an Ig Fc
domain. In some embodiments, positioning of TREXI cassettes in a head-to-tail manner can
be corrected for head-to tail folding on either arm of the immunoenzyme and introduce a
single TREXI functional domain into each arm of the molecule. In some embodiments, each
immunoenzyme of a hybrid nuclease molecule has two functional TREXI enzymes attached
to a single IgG Fc domain.
[00104]     In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule includes TREXI-linkerl-Ig
linker2-RNase.
[00105]     In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule includes RNase-Ig-linker
TREXI. In some embodiments, cassettes are derived for both amino and carboxyl fusion of
each enzyme for incorporation into hybrid nuclease molecules where the enzyme
configuration is reversed. In some embodiments, the RNase enzyme exhibits comparable
functional activity regardless of its position in the hybrid nuclease molecules. In some
                                                     20

embodiments, alternative hybrid nuclease molecules can be designed to test whether a
particular configuration demonstrates improved expression and/or function of the hybrid
nuclease molecule components.
[00106]     In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule includes 1L3-Ig. In some
embodiments, the 1L3 DNase is constructed from a murine sequence and expressed. In some
embodiments, the enzyme is active. In some embodiments, a murine 1L3 DNase-Ig-RNase
hybrid nuclease is constructed and expressed. In some embodiments, the molecule includes
human 1L3-Ig, human 1L3-Ig-RNase, and/or human RNase-Ig-1L3.
[00107]     In some embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule includes DNasel-Ig. In
some embodiments, a naturally occurring variant allele, Al 14F, which shows reduced
sensitivity to actin is included in a DNasel-Ig hybrid nuclease molecule. In some
embodiments, this mutation is introduced into a hybrid nuclease molecule to generate a more
stable derivative of human DNasel. In some embodiments, a DNasel-linker-Ig containing a
20 or 25 aa linker domain is made. In some embodiments, hybrid nuclease molecules include
RNase-Ig-linker-DNasel where the DNasel domain is located at the COOH side of the Ig Fc
domain. In some embodiments, hybrid nuclease molecules are made that incorporate DNase 1
and include: DNase 1-linker-Ig-linker2-RNase, and/or RNase-Ig-linker-DNase 1.
[00108]     Another aspect of the present invention is to use gene therapy methods for treating
or preventing disorders, diseases, and conditions with one or more hybrid nuclease
molecules. The gene therapy methods relate to the introduction of hybrid nuclease molecule
nucleic acid (DNA, RNA and antisense DNA or RNA) sequences into an animal to achieve
expression of the polypeptide or polypeptides of the present invention. This method can
include introduction of one or more polynucleotides encoding a hybrid nuclease molecule
polypeptide of the present invention operatively linked to a promoter and any other genetic
elements necessary for the expression of the polypeptide by the target tissue.
[00109]     In gene therapy applications, hybrid nuclease molecule genes are introduced into
cells in order to achieve in vivo synthesis of a therapeutically effective genetic product.
"Gene therapy" includes both conventional gene therapies where a lasting effect is achieved
by a single treatment, and the administration of gene therapeutic agents, which involves the
one time or repeated administration of a therapeutically effective DNA or mRNA. The
oligonucleotides can be modified to enhance their uptake, e.g., by substituting their
negatively charged phosphodiester groups by uncharged groups.
                                                     21

                 Fc Domains
[00110]      In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes an Fc domain. Fc
domains useful for producing the hybrid nuclease molecules of the present invention may be
obtained from a number of different sources. In preferred embodiments, an Fc domain of the
hybrid nuclease molecule is derived from a human immunoglobulin. It is understood,
however, that the Fc domain may be derived from an immunoglobulin of another mammalian
species, including for example, a rodent (e.g. a mouse, rat, rabbit, guinea pig) or non-human
primate (e.g. chimpanzee, macaque) species. Moreover, the hybrid nuclease molecule Fc
domain or portion thereof may be derived from any immunoglobulin class, including IgM,
IgG, IgD, IgA, and IgE, and any immunoglobulin isotype, including IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and
IgG4. In a preferred embodiment, the human isotype IgGI is used.
[00111]      A variety of Fc domain gene sequences (e.g. human constant region gene
sequences) are available in the form of publicly accessible deposits. Constant region domains
comprising an Fc domain sequence can be selected having a particular effector function (or
lacking a particular effector function) or with a particular modification to reduce
immunogenicity. Many sequences of antibodies and antibody-encoding genes have been
published and suitable Fc domain sequences (e.g. hinge, CH2, and/or CH3 sequences, or
portions thereof) can be derived from these sequences using art recognized techniques. The
genetic material obtained using any of the foregoing methods may then be altered or
synthesized to obtain polypeptides of the present invention. It will further be appreciated that
the scope of this invention encompasses alleles, variants and mutations of constant region
DNA sequences.
[00112]      Fc domain sequences can be cloned, e.g., using the polymerase chain reaction and
primers which are selected to amplify the domain of interest. To clone an Fc domain
sequence from an antibody, mRNA can be isolated from hybridoma, spleen, or lymph cells,
reverse transcribed into DNA, and antibody genes amplified by PCR. PCR amplification
methods are described in detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,683,195; 4,683,202; 4,800,159; 4,965,188;
and in, e.g., "PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications" Innis et al. eds.,
Academic Press, San Diego, Calif. (1990); Ho et al. 1989. Gene 77:5 1; Horton et al. 1993.
Methods Enzymol. 217:270). PCR may be initiated by consensus constant region primers or
by more specific primers based on the published heavy and light chain DNA and amino acid
sequences. As discussed above, PCR also may be used to isolate DNA clones encoding the
antibody light and heavy chains. In this case the libraries may be screened by consensus
                                                    22

primers or larger homologous probes, such as mouse constant region probes. Numerous
primer sets suitable for amplification of antibody genes are known in the art (e.g., 5' primers
based on the N-terminal sequence of purified antibodies (Benhar and Pastan. 1994. Protein
Engineering 7:1509); rapid amplification of cDNA ends (Ruberti, F. et al. 1994. J. Immunol.
Methods 173:33); antibody leader sequences (Larrick et al. 1989 Biochem. Biophys. Res.
Commun. 160:1250). The cloning of antibody sequences is further described in Newman et
al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,658,570, filed Jan. 25, 1995, which is incorporated by reference herein.
[00113]     The hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention may comprise one or more Fc
domains (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more Fc domains). In one embodiment, the Fc
domains may be of different types. In one embodiment, at least one Fc domain present in the
hybrid nuclease molecule comprises a hinge domain or portion thereof. In another
embodiment, the hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises at least one Fc domain
which comprises at least one CH2 domain or portion thereof. In another embodiment, the
hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises at least one Fc domain which comprises
at least one CH3 domain or portion thereof. In another embodiment, the hybrid nuclease
molecule of the invention comprises at least one Fc domain which comprises at least one
CH4 domain or portion thereof. In another embodiment, the hybrid nuclease molecule of the
invention comprises at least one Fc domain which comprises at least one hinge domain or
portion thereof and at least one CH2 domain or portion thereof (e.g, in the hinge-CH2
orientation). In another embodiment, the hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises
at least one Fc domain which comprises at least one CH2 domain or portion thereof and at
least one CH3 domain or portion thereof (e.g, in the CH2-CH3 orientation). In another
embodiment, the hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises at least one Fc domain
comprising at least one hinge domain or portion thereof, at least one CH2 domain or portion
thereof, and least one CH3 domain or portion thereof, for example in the orientation hinge
CH2-CH3, hinge-CH3-CH2, or CH2-CH3 -hinge.
[00114]     In certain embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule comprises at least one
complete Fc region derived from one or more immunoglobulin heavy chains (e.g., an Fc
domain including hinge, CH2, and CH3 domains, although these need not be derived from
the same antibody). In other embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule comprises at least
two complete Fc domains derived from one or more immunoglobulin heavy chains. In
preferred embodiments, the complete Fc domain is derived from a human IgG
immunoglobulin heavy chain (e.g., human IgGI).
                                                      23

[00115]     In another embodiment, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises at
least one Fc domain comprising a complete CH3 domain. In another embodiment, a hybrid
nuclease molecule of the invention comprises at least one Fc domain comprising a complete
CH2 domain. In another embodiment, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises
at least one Fc domain comprising at least a CH3 domain, and at least one of a hinge region,
and a CH2 domain. In one embodiment, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention
comprises at least one Fc domain comprising a hinge and a CH3 domain. In another
embodiment, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises at least one Fc domain
comprising a hinge, a CH2, and a CH3 domain. In preferred embodiments, the Fc domain is
derived from a human IgG immunoglobulin heavy chain (e.g., human IgGI).
[00116]     The constant region domains or portions thereof making up an Fc domain of a
hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention may be derived from different immunoglobulin
molecules. For example, a polypeptide of the invention may comprise a CH2 domain or
portion thereof derived from an IgG 1 molecule and a CH3 region or portion thereof derived
from an IgG3 molecule. In another example, a hybrid nuclease molecule can comprise an Fc
domain comprising a hinge domain derived, in part, from an IgGI molecule and, in part, from
an IgG3 molecule. As set forth herein, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art
that an Fc domain may be altered such that it varies in amino acid sequence from a naturally
occurring antibody molecule.
[00117]     In another embodiment, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises
one or more truncated Fc domains that are nonetheless sufficient to confer Fc receptor (FcR)
binding properties to the Fc region. Thus, an Fc domain of a hybrid nuclease molecule of the
invention may comprise or consist of an FcRn binding portion. FcRn binding portions may be
derived from heavy chains of any isotype, including IgGI, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4. In one
embodiment, an FcRn binding portion from an antibody of the human isotype IgGI is used.
In another embodiment, an FcRn binding portion from an antibody of the human isotype
IgG4 is used.
[00118]     In one embodiment, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention lacks one or
more constant region domains of a complete Fc region, i.e., they are partially or entirely
deleted. In a certain embodiments hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention will lack an
entire CH2 domain (ACH2 constructs). Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such
constructs may be preferred due to the regulatory properties of the CH2 domain on the
catabolic rate of the antibody. In certain embodiments, hybrid nuclease molecules of the
                                                   24

invention comprise CH2 domain-deleted Fc regions derived from a vector (e.g., from IDEC
Pharmaceuticals, San Diego) encoding an IgGI human constant region domain (see, e.g., WO
02/060955A2 and W002/096948A2). This exemplary vector is engineered to delete the CH2
domain and provide a synthetic vector expressing a domain-deleted IgG 1 constant region. It
will be noted that these exemplary constructs are preferably engineered to fuse a binding
CH3 domain directly to a hinge region of the respective Fc domain.
[00119]     In other constructs it may be desirable to provide a peptide spacer between one or
more constituent Fc domains. For example, a peptide spacer may be placed between a hinge
region and a CH2 domain and/or between a CH2 and a CH3 domain. For example,
compatible constructs could be expressed wherein the CH2 domain has been deleted and the
remaining CH3 domain (synthetic or unsynthetic) is joined to the hinge region with a 1-20, 1
10, or 1-5 amino acid peptide spacer. Such a peptide spacer may be added, for instance, to
ensure that the regulatory elements of the constant region domain remain free and accessible
or that the hinge region remains flexible. Preferably, any linker peptide compatible with the
instant invention will be relatively non-immunogenic and not prevent proper folding of the
Fc.
[00120]     Changes to Fc Amino Acids
[00121]     In certain embodiments, an Fc domain employed in a hybrid nuclease molecule of
the invention is altered, e.g., by amino acid mutation (e.g., addition, deletion, or substitution).
As used herein, the term "Fc domain variant" refers to an Fc domain having at least one
amino acid substitution as compared to the wild-type Fc from which the Fc domain is
derived. For example, wherein the Fc domain is derived from a human IgGI antibody, a
variant comprises at least one amino acid mutation (e.g., substitution) as compared to a wild
type amino acid at the corresponding position of the human IgGI Fc region.
[00122]     The amino acid substitution(s) of an Fc variant may be located at a position within
the Fc domain referred to as corresponding to the portion number that that residue would be
given in an Fc region in an antibody.
[00123]     In one embodiment, the Fc variant comprises a substitution at an amino acid
position located in a hinge domain or portion thereof. In another embodiment, the Fc variant
comprises a substitution at an amino acid position located in a CH2 domain or portion
thereof. In another embodiment, the Fc variant comprises a substitution at an amino acid
position located in a CH3 domain or portion thereof. In another embodiment, the Fc variant
                                                    25

comprises a substitution at an amino acid position located in a CH4 domain or portion
thereof.
[00124]      In certain embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention comprise
an Fc variant comprising more than one amino acid substitution. The hybrid nuclease
molecules of the invention may comprise, for example, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more amino
acid substitutions. Preferably, the amino acid substitutions are spatially positioned from each
other by an interval of at least 1 amino acid position or more, for example, at least 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 amino acid positions or more. More preferably, the engineered amino acids
are spatially positioned apart from each other by an interval of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, or 25
amino acid positions or more.
[00125]      In certain embodiments, the Fc variant confers an improvement in at least one
effector function imparted by an Fc domain comprising said wild-type Fc domain (e.g., an
improvement in the ability of the Fc domain to bind to Fc receptors (e.g. FcyRI, FcyRII, or
FcyRIII) or complement proteins (e.g. Clq), or to trigger antibody-dependent cytotoxicity
(ADCC), phagocytosis, or complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDCC)). In other
embodiments, the Fc variant provides an engineered cysteine residue.
[00126]      The hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention may employ art-recognized Fc
variants which are known to impart an improvement in effector function and/or FcR binding.
Specifically, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention may include, for example, a change
(e.g., a substitution) at one or more of the amino acid positions disclosed in International PCT
Publications W088/07089A1, W096/14339A1, W098/05787A1, W098/23289A1,
W099/51642A1, W099/58572A1, WOOO/09560A2, WOOO/32767A1, WOOO/42072A2,
W002/44215A2, W002/060919A2, W003/074569A2, W004/016750A2, W004/029207A2,
W004/035752A2, W004/063351 A2, W004/074455A2, W004/099249A2,
W005/040217A2, W004/044859, W005/070963A1, W005/077981A2, W005/092925A2,
W005/123780A2, W006/019447A1, W006/047350A2, and W006/085967A2; US Patent
Publication Nos. US2007/0231329, US2007/0231329, US2007/0237765, US2007/0237766,
US2007/0237767, US2007/0243188, US20070248603, US20070286859, US20080057056;
or U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,648,260; 5,739,277; 5,834,250; 5,869,046; 6,096,871; 6,121,022;
6,194,551; 6,242,195; 6,277,375; 6,528,624; 6,538,124; 6,737,056; 6,821,505; 6,998,253;
7,083,784; and 7,317,091, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. In one
embodiment, the specific change (e.g., the specific substitution of one or more amino acids
disclosed in the art) may be made at one or more of the disclosed amino acid positions. In
                                                    26

another embodiment, a different change at one or more of the disclosed amino acid positions
(e.g., the different substitution of one or more amino acid position disclosed in the art) may
be made.
[00127]      In certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises an
amino acid substitution to an Fc domain which alters the antigen-independent effector
functions of the antibody, in particular the circulating half-life of the antibody. Such hybrid
nuclease molecules exhibit either increased or decreased binding to FcRn when compared to
hybrid nuclease molecules lacking these substitutions and, therefore, have an increased or
decreased half-life in serum, respectively. Fc variants with improved affinity for FcRn are
anticipated to have longer serum half-lives, and such molecules have useful applications in
methods of treating mammals where long half-life of the administered polypeptide is desired,
e.g., to treat a chronic disease or disorder. In contrast, Fc variants with decreased FcRn
binding affinity are expected to have shorter half-lives, and such molecules are also useful,
for example, for administration to a mammal where a shortened circulation time may be
advantageous, e.g. for in vivo diagnostic imaging or in situations where the starting
polypeptide has toxic side effects when present in the circulation for prolonged periods. Fc
variants with decreased FcRn binding affinity are also less likely to cross the placenta and,
thus, are also useful in the treatment of diseases or disorders in pregnant women. In addition,
other applications in which reduced FcRn binding affinity may be desired include those
applications in which localization the brain, kidney, and/or liver is desired. In one exemplary
embodiment, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention exhibit reduced transport across
the epithelium of kidney glomeruli from the vasculature. In another embodiment, the hybrid
nuclease molecules of the invention exhibit reduced transport across the blood brain barrier
(BBB) from the brain, into the vascular space. In one embodiment, a hybrid nuclease
molecule with altered FcRn binding comprises at least one Fc domain (e.g., one or two Fc
domains) having one or more amino acid substitutions within the "FcRn binding loop" of an
Fc domain. Exemplary amino acid substitutions which altered FcRn binding activity are
disclosed in International PCT Publication No. W005/047327 which is incorporated by
reference herein.
[00128]      In other embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises an
Fc variant comprising an amino acid substitution which alters the antigen-dependent effector
functions of the polypeptide, in particular ADCC or complement activation, e.g., as compared
to a wild type Fc region. In exemplary embodiment, said hybrid nuclease molecules exhibit
                                                      27

altered binding to an Fe gamma receptor (e.g., CD16). Such hybrid nuclease molecules
exhibit either increased or decreased binding to FcR gamma when compared to wild-type
polypeptides and, therefore, mediate enhanced or reduced effector function, respectively. Fc
variants with improved affinity for FcyRs are anticipated to enhance effector function, and
such molecules have useful applications in methods of treating mammals where target
molecule destruction is desired. In contrast, Fc variants with decreased FcyR binding affinity
are expected to reduce effector function, and such molecules are also useful, for example, for
treatment of conditions in which target cell destruction is undesirable, e.g., where normal
cells may express target molecules, or where chronic administration of the polypeptide might
result in unwanted immune system activation. In one embodiment, the polypeptide
comprising an Fc exhibits at least one altered antigen-dependent effector function selected
from the group consisting of opsonization, phagocytosis, complement dependent cytotoxicity,
antigen-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), or effector cell modulation as compared to a
polypeptide comprising a wild type Fc region.
[00129]     In one embodiment the hybrid nuclease molecule exhibits altered binding to an
activating FcyR (e.g. FcyI, FcyIIa, or FcyRIIIa). In another embodiment, the hybrid nuclease
molecule exhibits altered binding affinity to an inhibitory FcyR (e.g. FcyRIIb). Exemplary
amino acid substitutions which altered FcR or complement binding activity are disclosed in
International PCT Publication No. W005/063815 which is incorporated by reference herein.
[00130]     A hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention may also comprise an amino acid
substitution which alters the glycosylation of the hybrid nuclease molecule. For example, the
Fc domain of the hybrid nuclease molecule may comprise an Fc domain having a mutation
leading to reduced glycosylation (e.g., N- or O-linked glycosylation) or may comprise an
altered glycoform of the wild-type Fc domain (e.g., a low fucose or fucose-free glycan). In
another embodiment, the hybrid nuclease molecule has an amino acid substitution near or
within a glycosylation motif, for example, an N-linked glycosylation motif that contains the
amino acid sequence NXT or NXS. Exemplary amino acid substitutions which reduce or
alter glycosylation are disclosed in International PCT Publication No. W005/018572 and US
Patent Publication No. 2007/0111281, which are incorporated by reference herein.
[00131]     In other embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention comprises at
least one Fc domain having engineered cysteine residue or analog thereof which is located at
the solvent-exposed surface. Preferably the engineered cysteine residue or analog thereof
does not interfere with an effector function conferred by the Fc. More preferably, the
                                                    28

alteration does not interfere with the ability of the Fe to bind to Fc receptors (e.g. FeyRI,
FeyRII, or FeyRIII) or complement proteins (e.g. Clq), or to trigger immune effector function
(e.g., antibody-dependent cytotoxicity (ADCC), phagocytosis, or complement-dependent
cytotoxicity (CDCC)). In preferred embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the
invention comprise an Fc domain comprising at least one engineered free cysteine residue or
analog thereof that is substantially free of disulfide bonding with a second cysteine residue.
Any of the above engineered cysteine residues or analogs thereof may subsequently be
conjugated to a functional domain using art-recognized techniques (e.g., conjugated with a
thiol-reactive heterobifunctional linker).
[00132]     In one embodiment, the hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention may comprise
a genetically fused Fc domain having two or more of its constituent Fc domains
independently selected from the Fc domains described herein. In one embodiment, the Fc
domains are the same. In another embodiment, at least two of the Fc domains are different.
For example, the Fc domains of the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention comprise the
same number of amino acid residues or they may differ in length by one or more amino acid
residues (e.g., by about 5 amino acid residues (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 amino acid residues), about
10 residues, about 15 residues, about 20 residues, about 30 residues, about 40 residues, or
about 50 residues). In yet other embodiments, the Fc domains of the hybrid nuclease
molecules of the invention may differ in sequence at one or more amino acid positions. For
example, at least two of the Fc domains may differ at about 5 amino acid positions (e.g., 1, 2,
3, 4, or 5 amino acid positions), about 10 positions, about 15 positions, about 20 positions,
about 30 positions, about 40 positions, or about 50 positions).
                Linker Domains
[00133]     In some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes a linker domain. In
some embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes a plurality of linker domains. In
some embodiments, the linker domain is a polypeptide linker. In certain aspects, it is
desirable to employ a polypeptide linker to fuse one or more Fc domains to one or more
nuclease domains to form a hybrid nuclease molecule.
[00134]     In one embodiment, the polypeptide linker is synthetic. As used herein the term
"synthetic" with respect to a polypeptide linker includes peptides (or polypeptides) which
comprise an amino acid sequence (which may or may not be naturally occurring) that is
linked in a linear sequence of amino acids to a sequence (which may or may not be naturally
                                                     29

occurring) (e.g., an Fe domain sequence) to which it is not naturally linked in nature. For
example, the polypeptide linker may comprise non-naturally occurring polypeptides which
are modified forms of naturally occurring polypeptides (e.g., comprising a mutation such as
an addition, substitution or deletion) or which comprise a first amino acid sequence (which
may or may not be naturally occurring). The polypeptide linkers of the invention may be
employed, for instance, to ensure that Fc domains are juxtaposed to ensure proper folding and
formation of a functional Fc domain. Preferably, a polypeptide linker compatible with the
instant invention will be relatively non-immunogenic and not inhibit any non-covalent
association among monomer subunits of a binding protein.
[00135]     In certain embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention employ a
polypeptide linker to join any two or more domains in frame in a single polypeptide chain. In
one embodiment, the two or more domains may be independently selected from any of the Fc
domains or nuclease domains discussed herein. For example, in certain embodiments, a
polypeptide linker can be used to fuse identical Fc domains, thereby forming a homomeric Fc
region. In other embodiments, a polypeptide linker can be used to fuse different Fc domains
(e.g. a wild-type Fc domain and a Fc domain variant), thereby forming a heteromeric Fc
region. In other embodiments, a polypeptide linker of the invention can be used to genetically
fuse the C-terminus of a first Fc domain (e.g. a hinge domain or portion thereof, a CH2
domain or portion thereof, a complete CH3 domain or portion thereof, a FcRn binding
portion, an FcyR binding portion, a complement binding portion, or portion thereof) to the N
terminus of a second Fc domain (e.g., a complete Fc domain).
[00136]     In one embodiment, a polypeptide linker comprises a portion of an Fc domain. For
example, in one embodiment, a polypeptide linker can comprise an immunoglobulin hinge
domain of an IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and/or IgG4 antibody. In another embodiment, a polypeptide
linker can comprise a CH2 domain of an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and/or IgG4 antibody. In other
embodiments, a polypeptide linker can comprise a CH3 domain of an IgGI, IgG2, IgG3,
and/or IgG4 antibody. Other portions of an immunoglobulin (e.g. a human immunoglobulin)
can be used as well. For example, a polypeptide linker can comprise a CHI domain or
portion thereof, a CL domain or portion thereof, a VH domain or portion thereof, or a VL
domain or portion thereof. Said portions can be derived from any immunoglobulin, including,
for example, an IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and/or IgG4 antibody.
[00137]     In exemplary embodiments, a polypeptide linker can comprise at least a portion of
an immunoglobulin hinge region. In one embodiment, a polypeptide linker comprises an
                                                   30

upper hinge domain (e.g., an IgGI, an IgG2, an IgG3, or IgG4 upper hinge domain). In
another embodiment, a polypeptide linker comprises a middle hinge domain (e.g., an IgGI,
an IgG2, an IgG3, or an IgG4 middle hinge domain). In another embodiment, a polypeptide
linker comprises a lower hinge domain (e.g., an IgGI, an IgG2, an IgG3, or an IgG4 lower
hinge domain).
[00138]      In other embodiments, polypeptide linkers can be constructed which combine
hinge elements derived from the same or different antibody isotypes. In one embodiment, the
polypeptide linker comprises a chimeric hinge comprising at least a portion of an IgG 1 hinge
region and at least a portion of an IgG2 hinge region. In one embodiment, the polypeptide
linker comprises a chimeric hinge comprising at least a portion of an IgG 1 hinge region and
at least a portion of an IgG3 hinge region. In another embodiment, a polypeptide linker
comprises a chimeric hinge comprising at least a portion of an IgG 1 hinge region and at least
a portion of an IgG4 hinge region. In one embodiment, the polypeptide linker comprises a
chimeric hinge comprising at least a portion of an IgG2 hinge region and at least a portion of
an IgG3 hinge region. In one embodiment, the polypeptide linker comprises a chimeric hinge
comprising at least a portion of an IgG2 hinge region and at least a portion of an IgG4 hinge
region. In one embodiment, the polypeptide linker comprises a chimeric hinge comprising at
least a portion of an IgGI hinge region, at least a portion of an IgG2 hinge region, and at least
a portion of an IgG4 hinge region. In another embodiment, a polypeptide linker can comprise
an IgG 1 upper and middle hinge and a single IgG3 middle hinge repeat motif. In another
embodiment, a polypeptide linker can comprise an IgG4 upper hinge, an IgGI middle hinge
and a IgG2 lower hinge.
[00139]      In another embodiment, a polypeptide linker comprises or consists of a gly-ser
linker. As used herein, the term "gly-ser linker" refers to a peptide that consists of glycine
and seine residues. An exemplary gly/ser linker comprises an amino acid sequence of the
formula (Gly 4 Ser)n, wherein n is a positive integer (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5). A preferred gly/ser
linker is (Gly 4 Ser)4. Another preferred gly/ser linker is (Gly 4Ser)3. Another preferred
gly/ser linker is (Gly 4 Ser)5. In certain embodiments, the gly-ser linker may be inserted
between two other sequences of the polypeptide linker (e.g., any of the polypeptide linker
sequences described herein). In other embodiments, a gly-ser linker is attached at one or both
ends of another sequence of the polypeptide linker (e.g., any of the polypeptide linker
sequences described herein). In yet other embodiments, two or more gly-ser linker are
incorporated in series in a polypeptide linker. In one embodiment, a polypeptide linker of the
                                                     31

invention comprises at least a portion of an upper hinge region (e.g., derived from an IgGI,
IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4 molecule), at least a portion of a middle hinge region (e.g., derived from
an IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4 molecule) and a series of gly/ser amino acid residues (e.g., a
gly/ser linker such as (Gly 4 Ser)n).
[00140]     In one embodiment, a polypeptide linker of the invention comprises a non
naturally occurring immunoglobulin hinge region domain, e.g., a hinge region domain that is
not naturally found in the polypeptide comprising the hinge region domain and/or a hinge
region domain that has been altered so that it differs in amino acid sequence from a naturally
occurring immunoglobulin hinge region domain. In one embodiment, mutations can be made
to hinge region domains to make a polypeptide linker of the invention. In one embodiment, a
polypeptide linker of the invention comprises a hinge domain which does not comprise a
naturally occurring number of cysteines, i.e., the polypeptide linker comprises either fewer
cysteines or a greater number of cysteines than a naturally occurring hinge molecule.
[00141]     In other embodiments, a polypeptide linker of the invention comprises a
biologically relevant peptide sequence or a sequence portion thereof. For example, a
biologically relevant peptide sequence may include, but is not limited to, sequences derived
from an anti-rejection or anti-inflammatory peptide. Said anti-rejection or anti-inflammatory
peptides may be selected from the group consisting of a cytokine inhibitory peptide, a cell
adhesion inhibitory peptide, a thrombin inhibitory peptide, and a platelet inhibitory peptide.
In a one preferred embodiment, a polypeptide linker comprises a peptide sequence selected
from the group consisting of an IL-I inhibitory or antagonist peptide sequence, an
erythropoietin (EPO)-mimetic peptide sequence, a thrombopoietin (TPO)-mimetic peptide
sequence, G-CSF mimetic peptide sequence, a TNF-antagonist peptide sequence, an integrin
binding peptide sequence, a selectin antagonist peptide sequence, an anti-pathogenic peptide
sequence, a vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) mimetic peptide sequence, a calmodulin
antagonist peptide sequence, a mast cell antagonist, a SH3 antagonist peptide sequence, an
urokinase receptor (UKR) antagonist peptide sequence, a somatostatin or cortistatin mimetic
peptide sequence, and a macrophage and/or T-cell inhibiting peptide sequence. Exemplary
peptide sequences, any one of which may be employed as a polypeptide linker, are disclosed
in U.S. Pat. No. 6,660,843, which is incorporated by reference herein.
[00142]     It will be understood that variant forms of these exemplary polypeptide linkers
can be created by introducing one or more nucleotide substitutions, additions or deletions into
the nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide linker such that one or more amino acid
                                                    32

substitutions, additions or deletions are introduced into the polypeptide linker. For example,
mutations may be introduced by standard techniques, such as site-directed mutagenesis and
PCR-mediated mutagenesis.
[00143]     Polypeptide linkers of the invention are at least one amino acid in length and can
be of varying lengths. In one embodiment, a polypeptide linker of the invention is from about
1 to about 50 amino acids in length. As used in this context, the term "about" indicates +/
two amino acid residues. Since linker length must be a positive integer, the length of from
about 1 to about 50 amino acids in length, means a length of from 1 to 48-52 amino acids in
length. In another embodiment, a polypeptide linker of the invention is from about 10-20
amino acids in length. In another embodiment, a polypeptide linker of the invention is from
about 15 to about 50 amino acids in length.
[00144]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide linker of the invention is from about 20 to
about 45 amino acids in length. In another embodiment, a polypeptide linker of the invention
is from about 15 to about 25 amino acids in length. In another embodiment, a polypeptide
linker of the invention is from about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,
44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 ,57, 58, 59, 60, or more amino acids in
length.
[00145]     Polypeptide linkers can be introduced into polypeptide sequences using
techniques known in the art. Modifications can be confirmed by DNA sequence analysis.
Plasmid DNA can be used to transform host cells for stable production of the polypeptides
produced.
                Nuclease Domains
[00146]     In certain aspects, a hybrid nuclease molecule includes a nuclease domain.
Accordingly, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention typically comprise at least one
nuclease domain and at least one linked Fc domain. In certain aspects, a hybrid nuclease
molecule includes a plurality of nuclease domains.
[00147]     In some embodiments, a nuclease domain is DNase. In some embodiments, the
DNase is a Type I secreted DNase. In some embodiments, the DNase is DNase 1 and/or a
DNase 1- like (DNaseL) enzyme, 1-3. In some embodiments, the DNase is TREXI.
[00148]     In some embodiments, a nuclease domain is an RNase. In some embodiments, the
RNase is an extracellular or secretory RNase of the RNase A superfamily, e.g., RNase A.
                                                     33

[00149]      In one embodiment, the nuclease domain is operably linked (e.g., chemically
conjugated or genetically fused (e.g., either directly or via a polypeptide linker)) to the N
terminus of an Fc domain. In another embodiment, the nuclease domain is operably linked
(e.g., chemically conjugated or genetically fused (e.g., either directly or via a polypeptide
linker)) to the C-terminus of an Fc domain. In other embodiments, a nuclease domain is
operably linked (e.g., chemically conjugated or genetically fused (e.g., either directly or via a
polypeptide linker)) via an amino acid side chain of an Fc domain. In certain exemplary
embodiments, the nuclease domain is fused to an Fc domain via a human immunoglobulin
hinge domain or portion thereof.
[00150]      In certain embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention comprise
two or more nuclease domains and at least one Fc domain. For example, nuclease domains
may be operably linked to both the N-terminus and C-terminus of an Fc domain. In other
exemplary embodiments, nuclease domains may be operably linked to both the N- and C
terminal ends of multiple Fc domains (e.g., two, three, four, five, or more Fc domains) which
are linked together in series to form a tandem array of Fc domains.
[00151]      In other embodiments, two or more nuclease domains are linked to each other
(e.g., via a polypeptide linker) in series, and the tandem array of nuclease domains is
operably linked (e.g., chemically conjugated or genetically fused (e.g., either directly or via a
polypeptide linker)) to either the C-terminus or the N-terminus of a Fc domain or a tandem
array of Fc domains. In other embodiments, the tandem array of nuclease domains is operably
linked to both the C-terminus and the N-terminus of a Fc domain or a tandem array of Fc
domains.
[00152]      In other embodiments, one or more nuclease domains may be inserted between
two Fc domains. For example, one or more nuclease domains may form all or part of a
polypeptide linker of a hybrid nuclease molecule of the invention.
[00153]      Preferred hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention comprise at least one
nuclease domain (e.g., RNase or DNase), at least one linker domain, and at least one Fc
domain.
[00154]      In certain embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention have at
least one nuclease domain specific for a target molecule which mediates a biological effect.
In another embodiment, binding of the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention to a target
molecule (e.g. DNA or RNA) results in the reduction or elimination of the target molecule,
e.g., from a cell, a tissue, or from circulation.
                                                      34

[00155]     In certain embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention may
comprise two or more nuclease domains. In one embodiment, the nuclease domains are
identical, e.g., RNase and RNase, or TREXI and TREXI. In another embodiment, the
nuclease domains are different, e.g., DNase and RNase.
[00156]     In other embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecules of the invention may be
assembled together or with other polypeptides to form binding proteins having two or more
polypeptides ("multimers"), wherein at least one polypeptide of the multimer is a hybrid
nuclease molecule of the invention. Exemplary multimeric forms include dimeric, trimeric,
tetrameric, and hexameric altered binding proteins and the like. In one embodiment, the
polypeptides of the multimer are the same (ie. homomeric altered binding proteins, e.g.
homodimers, homotetramers). In another embodiment, the polypeptides of the multimer are
different (e.g. heteromeric).
        Methods of Making Hybrid Nuclease Molecules
[00157]     The hybrid nuclease molecules of this invention largely may be made in
transformed host cells using recombinant DNA techniques. To do so, a recombinant DNA
molecule coding for the peptide is prepared. Methods of preparing such DNA molecules are
well known in the art. For instance, sequences coding for the peptides could be excised from
DNA using suitable restriction enzymes. Alternatively, the DNA molecule could be
synthesized using chemical synthesis techniques, such as the phosphoramidate method. Also,
a combination of these techniques could be used.
[00158]     The invention also includes a vector capable of expressing the peptides in an
appropriate host. The vector comprises the DNA molecule that codes for the peptides
operatively linked to appropriate expression control sequences. Methods of affecting this
operative linking, either before or after the DNA molecule is inserted into the vector, are well
known. Expression control sequences include promoters, activators, enhancers, operators,
ribosomal nuclease domains, start signals, stop signals, cap signals, polyadenylation signals,
and other signals involved with the control of transcription or translation.
[00159]     The resulting vector having the DNA molecule thereon is used to transform an
appropriate host. This transformation may be performed using methods well known in the art.
[00160]     Any of a large number of available and well-known host cells may be used in the
practice of this invention. The selection of a particular host is dependent upon a number of
factors recognized by the art. These include, for example, compatibility with the chosen
expression vector, toxicity of the peptides encoded by the DNA molecule, rate of
                                                    35

transformation, ease of recovery of the peptides, expression characteristics, bio-safety and
costs. A balance of these factors must be struck with the understanding that not all hosts may
be equally effective for the expression of a particular DNA sequence. Within these general
guidelines, useful microbial hosts include bacteria (such as E. coli sp.), yeast (such as
Saccharomyces sp.) and other fungi, insects, plants, mammalian (including human) cells in
culture, or other hosts known in the art.
[00161]      Next, the transformed host is cultured and purified. Host cells may be cultured
under conventional fermentation conditions so that the desired compounds are expressed.
Such fermentation conditions are well known in the art. Finally, the peptides are purified
from culture by methods well known in the art.
[00162]      The compounds may also be made by synthetic methods. For example, solid phase
synthesis techniques may be used. Suitable techniques are well known in the art, and include
those described in Merrifield (1973), Chem. Polypeptides, pp. 335-61 (Katsoyannis and
Panayotis eds.); Merrifield (1963), J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85: 2149; Davis et al. (1985),
Biochem. Intl. 10: 394-414; Stewart and Young (1969), Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis; U.S.
Pat. No. 3,941,763; Finn et al. (1976), The Proteins (3rd ed.) 2: 105-253; and Erickson et al.
(1976), The Proteins (3rd ed.) 2: 257-527. Solid phase synthesis is the preferred technique of
making individual peptides since it is the most cost-effective method of making small
peptides. Compounds that contain derivatized peptides or which contain non-peptide groups
may be synthesized by well-known organic chemistry techniques.
[00163]      Other methods are of molecule expression/synthesis are generally known in the art
to one of ordinary skill.
         Pharmaceutical Compositions and Therapeutic Methods of Use
[00164]      In certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is administered alone. In
certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is administered prior to the administration
of at least one other therapeutic agent. In certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is
administered concurrent with the administration of at least one other therapeutic agent. In
certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule is administered subsequent to the
administration of at least one other therapeutic agent. In other embodiments, a hybrid
nuclease molecule is administered prior to the administration of at least one other therapeutic
agent. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art, in some embodiments, the hybrid
nuclease molecule is combined with the other agent/compound. In some embodiments, the
hybrid nuclease molecule and other agent are administered concurrently. In some
                                                     36

embodiments, the hybrid nuclease molecule and other agent are not administered
simultaneously, with the hybrid nuclease molecule being administered before or after the
agent is administered. In some embodiments, the subject receives both the hybrid nuclease
molecule and the other agent during a same period of prevention, occurrence of a disorder,
and/or period of treatment.
[00165]       Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be administered in combination
therapy, i.e., combined with other agents. In certain embodiments, the combination therapy
comprises nuclease molecule, in combination with at least one other agent. Agents include,
but are not limited to, in vitro synthetically prepared chemical compositions, antibodies,
antigen binding regions, and combinations and conjugates thereof. In certain embodiments,
an agent can act as an agonist, antagonist, allosteric modulator, or toxin.
[00166]       In certain embodiments, the invention provides for pharmaceutical compositions
comprising a hybrid nuclease molecule together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent,
carrier, solubilizer, emulsifier, preservative and/or adjuvant.
[00167]       In certain embodiments, the invention provides for pharmaceutical compositions
comprising a hybrid nuclease molecule and a therapeutically effective amount of at least one
additional therapeutic agent, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, carrier,
solubilizer, emulsifier, preservative and/or adjuvant.
[00168]       In certain embodiments, acceptable formulation materials preferably are nontoxic
to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. In some embodiments, the
formulation material(s) are for s.c. and/or I.V. administration. In certain embodiments, the
pharmaceutical composition can contain formulation materials for modifying, maintaining or
preserving, for example, the pH, osmolarity, viscosity, clarity, color, isotonicity, odor,
sterility, stability, rate of dissolution or release, adsorption or penetration of the composition.
In certain embodiments, suitable formulation materials include, but are not limited to, amino
acids (such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine, arginine or lysine); antimicrobials; antioxidants
(such as ascorbic acid, sodium sulfite or sodium hydrogen-sulfite); buffers (such as borate,
bicarbonate, Tris-HCl, citrates, phosphates or other organic acids); bulking agents (such as
mannitol or glycine); chelating agents (such as ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA));
complexing agents (such as caffeine, polyvinylpyrrolidone, beta-cyclodextrin or
hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin); fillers; monosaccharides; disaccharides; and other
carbohydrates (such as glucose, mannose or dextrins); proteins (such as serum albumin,
gelatin or immunoglobulins); coloring, flavoring and diluting agents; emulsifying agents;
                                                        37

hydrophilic polymers (such as polyvinylpyrrolidone); low molecular weight polypeptides;
salt-forming counterions (such as sodium); preservatives (such as benzalkonium chloride,
benzoic acid, salicylic acid, thimerosal, phenethyl alcohol, methylparaben, propylparaben,
chlorhexidine, sorbic acid or hydrogen peroxide); solvents (such as glycerin, propylene
glycol or polyethylene glycol); sugar alcohols (such as mannitol or sorbitol); suspending
agents; surfactants or wetting agents (such as pluronics, PEG, sorbitan esters, polysorbates
such as polysorbate 20, polysorbate 80, triton, tromethamine, lecithin, cholesterol, tyloxapal);
stability enhancing agents (such as sucrose or sorbitol); tonicity enhancing agents (such as
alkali metal halides, preferably sodium or potassium chloride, mannitol sorbitol); delivery
vehicles; diluents; excipients and/or pharmaceutical adjuvants. (Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences, 18th Edition, A. R. Gennaro, ed., Mack Publishing Company (1995). In some
embodiments, the formulation comprises PBS; 20 mM NaOAC, pH 5.2, 50 mM NaCl; and/or
10 mM NAOAC, pH 5.2, 9% Sucrose.
[00169]     In certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule and/or a therapeutic molecule
is linked to a half-life extending vehicle known in the art. Such vehicles include, but are not
limited to, polyethylene glycol, glycogen (e.g., glycosylation of the hybrid nuclease
molecule), and dextran. Such vehicles are described, e.g., in U.S. application Ser. No.
09/428,082, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,660,843 and published PCT Application No. WO 99/25044,
which are hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose.
[00170]     In certain embodiments, the optimal pharmaceutical composition will be
determined by one skilled in the art depending upon, for example, the intended route of
administration, delivery format and desired dosage. See, for example, Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences, supra. In certain embodiments, such compositions may influence
the physical state, stability, rate of in vivo release and rate of in vivo clearance of the
antibodies of the invention.
[00171]     In certain embodiments, the primary vehicle or carrier in a pharmaceutical
composition can be either aqueous or non-aqueous in nature. For example, in certain
embodiments, a suitable vehicle or carrier can be water for injection, physiological saline
solution or artificial cerebrospinal fluid, possibly supplemented with other materials common
in compositions for parenteral administration. In some embodiments, the saline comprises
isotonic phosphate-buffered saline. In certain embodiments, neutral buffered saline or saline
mixed with serum albumin are further exemplary vehicles. In certain embodiments,
pharmaceutical compositions comprise Tris buffer of about pH 7.0-8.5, or acetate buffer of
                                                       38

about pH 4.0-5.5, which can further include sorbitol or a suitable substitute therefore. In
certain embodiments, a composition comprising a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without
at least one additional therapeutic agents, can be prepared for storage by mixing the selected
composition having the desired degree of purity with optional formulation agents
(Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, supra) in the form of a lyophilized cake or an
aqueous solution. Further, in certain embodiments, a composition comprising a hybrid
nuclease molecule, with or without at least one additional therapeutic agent, can be
formulated as a lyophilizate using appropriate excipients such as sucrose.
[00172]     In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition can be selected for
parenteral delivery. In certain embodiments, the compositions can be selected for inhalation
or for delivery through the digestive tract, such as orally. The preparation of such
pharmaceutically acceptable compositions is within the ability of one skilled in the art.
[00173]     In certain embodiments, the formulation components are present in concentrations
that are acceptable to the site of administration. In certain embodiments, buffers are used to
maintain the composition at physiological pH or at a slightly lower pH, typically within a pH
range of from about 5 to about 8.
[00174]     In certain embodiments, when parenteral administration is contemplated, a
therapeutic composition can be in the form of a pyrogen-free, parenterally acceptable
aqueous solution comprising a desired hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without additional
therapeutic agents, in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. In certain embodiments, a
vehicle for parenteral injection is sterile distilled water in which a hybrid nuclease molecule,
with or without at least one additional therapeutic agent, is formulated as a sterile, isotonic
solution, properly preserved. In certain embodiments, the preparation can involve the
formulation of the desired molecule with an agent, such as injectable microspheres, bio
erodible particles, polymeric compounds (such as polylactic acid or polyglycolic acid), beads
or liposomes, that can provide for the controlled or sustained release of the product which can
then be delivered via a depot injection. In certain embodiments, hyaluronic acid can also be
used, and can have the effect of promoting sustained duration in the circulation. In certain
embodiments, implantable drug delivery devices can be used to introduce the desired
molecule.
[00175]     In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition can be formulated for
inhalation. In certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without at least one
additional therapeutic agent, can be formulated as a dry powder for inhalation. In certain
                                                      39

embodiments, an inhalation solution comprising a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without
at least one additional therapeutic agent, can be formulated with a propellant for aerosol
delivery. In certain embodiments, solutions can be nebulized. Pulmonary administration is
further described in PCT application no. PCT/US94/001875, which describes pulmonary
delivery of chemically modified proteins.
[00176]      In certain embodiments, it is contemplated that formulations can be administered
orally. In certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without at least one
additional therapeutic agents, that is administered in this fashion can be formulated with or
without those carriers customarily used in the compounding of solid dosage forms such as
tablets and capsules. In certain embodiments, a capsule can be designed to release the active
portion of the formulation at the point in the gastrointestinal tract when bioavailability is
maximized and pre-systemic degradation is minimized. In certain embodiments, at least one
additional agent can be included to facilitate absorption of a hybrid nuclease molecule and/or
any additional therapeutic agents. In certain embodiments, diluents, flavorings, low melting
point waxes, vegetable oils, lubricants, suspending agents, tablet disintegrating agents, and
binders can also be employed.
[00177]      In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition can involve an effective
quantity of a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without at least one additional therapeutic
agents, in a mixture with non-toxic excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of
tablets. In certain embodiments, by dissolving the tablets in sterile water, or another
appropriate vehicle, solutions can be prepared in unit-dose form. In certain embodiments,
suitable excipients include, but are not limited to, inert diluents, such as calcium carbonate,
sodium carbonate or bicarbonate, lactose, or calcium phosphate; or binding agents, such as
starch, gelatin, or acacia; or lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate, stearic acid, or
talc.
[00178]      Additional pharmaceutical compositions will be evident to those skilled in the art,
including formulations involving a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without at least one
additional therapeutic agent(s), in sustained- or controlled-delivery formulations. In certain
embodiments, techniques for formulating a variety of other sustained- or controlled-delivery
means, such as liposome carriers, bio-erodible microparticles or porous beads and depot
injections, are also known to those skilled in the art. See for example, PCT Application No.
PCT/US93/00829 which describes the controlled release of porous polymeric microparticles
for the delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. In certain embodiments, sustained-release
                                                     40

preparations can include semipermeable polymer matrices in the form of shaped articles, e.g.
films, or microcapsules. Sustained release matrices can include polyesters, hydrogels,
polylactides (U.S. Pat. No. 3,773,919 and EP 058,481), copolymers of L-glutamic acid and
gamma ethyl-L-glutamate (Sidman et al., Biopolymers, 22:547-556 (1983)), poly (2
hydroxyethyl-methacrylate) (Langer et al., J. Biomed. Mater. Res., 15:167-277 (1981) and
Langer, Chem. Tech., 12:98-105 (1982)), ethylene vinyl acetate (Langer et al., supra) or
poly-D(-)-3-hydroxybutyric acid (EP 133,988). In certain embodiments, sustained release
compositions can also include liposomes, which can be prepared by any of several methods
known in the art. See, e.g., Eppstein et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 82:3688-3692 (1985);
EP 036,676; EP 088,046 and EP 143,949.
[00179]      The pharmaceutical composition to be used for in vivo administration typically is
sterile. In certain embodiments, this can be accomplished by filtration through sterile
filtration membranes. In certain embodiments, where the composition is lyophilized,
sterilization using this method can be conducted either prior to or following lyophilization
and reconstitution. In certain embodiments, the composition for parenteral administration can
be stored in lyophilized form or in a solution. In certain embodiments, parenteral
compositions generally are placed into a container having a sterile access port, for example,
an intravenous solution bag or vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection
needle.
[00180]      In certain embodiments, once the pharmaceutical composition has been
formulated, it can be stored in sterile vials as a solution, suspension, gel, emulsion, solid, or
as a dehydrated or lyophilized powder. In certain embodiments, such formulations can be
stored either in a ready-to-use form or in a form (e.g., lyophilized) that is reconstituted prior
to administration.
[00181]      In certain embodiments, kits are provided for producing a single-dose
administration unit. In certain embodiments, the kit can contain both a first container having
a dried protein and a second container having an aqueous formulation. In certain
embodiments, kits containing single and multi-chambered pre-filled syringes (e.g., liquid
syringes and lyosyringes) are included.
[00182]      In certain embodiments, the effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without at least one additional therapeutic
agent, to be employed therapeutically will depend, for example, upon the therapeutic context
and objectives. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the appropriate dosage levels for
                                                     41

treatment, according to certain embodiments, will thus vary depending, in part, upon the
molecule delivered, the indication for which a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without at
least one additional therapeutic agent, is being used, the route of administration, and the size
(body weight, body surface or organ size) and/or condition (the age and general health) of the
patient. In certain embodiments, the clinician can titer the dosage and modify the route of
administration to obtain the optimal therapeutic effect. In certain embodiments, a typical
dosage can range from about 0.1 pig/kg to up to about 100 mg/kg or more, depending on the
factors mentioned above. In certain embodiments, the dosage can range from 0.1 ptg/kg up to
about 100 mg/kg; or 1 ptg/kg up to about 100 mg/kg; or 5 ptg/kg up to about 100 mg/kg.
[00183]     In certain embodiments, the frequency of dosing will take into account the
pharmacokinetic parameters of a hybrid nuclease molecule and/or any additional therapeutic
agents in the formulation used. In certain embodiments, a clinician will administer the
composition until a dosage is reached that achieves the desired effect. In certain
embodiments, the composition can therefore be administered as a single dose, or as two or
more doses (which may or may not contain the same amount of the desired molecule) over
time, or as a continuous infusion via an implantation device or catheter. Further refinement of
the appropriate dosage is routinely made by those of ordinary skill in the art and is within the
ambit of tasks routinely performed by them. In certain embodiments, appropriate dosages can
be ascertained through use of appropriate dose-response data.
[00184]     In certain embodiments, the route of administration of the pharmaceutical
composition is in accord with known methods, e.g. orally, through injection by intravenous,
intraperitoneal, intracerebral (intra-parenchymal), intracerebroventricular, intramuscular,
subcutaneously, intra-ocular, intraarterial, intraportal, or intralesional routes; by sustained
release systems or by implantation devices. In certain embodiments, the compositions can be
administered by bolus injection or continuously by infusion, or by implantation device.
[00185]     In certain embodiments, the composition can be administered locally via
implantation of a membrane, sponge or another appropriate material onto which the desired
molecule has been absorbed or encapsulated. In certain embodiments, where an implantation
device is used, the device can be implanted into any suitable tissue or organ, and delivery of
the desired molecule can be via diffusion, timed-release bolus, or continuous administration.
[00186]     In certain embodiments, it can be desirable to use a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a hybrid nuclease molecule, with or without at least one additional therapeutic
agent, in an ex vivo manner. In such instances, cells, tissues and/or organs that have been
                                                    42

removed from the patient are exposed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a hybrid
nuclease molecule, with or without at least one additional therapeutic agent, after which the
cells, tissues and/or organs are subsequently implanted back into the patient.
[00187]      In certain embodiments, a hybrid nuclease molecule and/or any additional
therapeutic agents can be delivered by implanting certain cells that have been genetically
engineered, using methods such as those described herein, to express and secrete the
polypeptides. In certain embodiments, such cells can be animal or human cells, and can be
autologous, heterologous, or xenogeneic. In certain embodiments, the cells can be
immortalized. In certain embodiments, in order to decrease the chance of an immunological
response, the cells can be encapsulated to avoid infiltration of surrounding tissues. In certain
embodiments, the encapsulation materials are typically biocompatible, semi-permeable
polymeric enclosures or membranes that allow the release of the protein product(s) but
prevent the destruction of the cells by the patient's immune system or by other detrimental
factors from the surrounding tissues.
[00188]      The hybrid nuclease molecules of the instant invention are particularly effective in
the treatment of autoimmune disorders or abnormal immune responses. In this regard, it will
be appreciated that the hybrid nuclease molecules of the present invention may be used to
control, suppress, modulate, treat, or eliminate unwanted immune responses to both external
and autoantigens. In yet other embodiments the polypeptides of the present invention may be
used to treat immune disorders that include, but are not limited to, insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus, multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, rheumatoid
arthritis, experimental autoimmune arthritis, myasthenia gravis, thyroiditis, an experimental
form of uveoretinitis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary myxoedema, thyrotoxicosis,
pernicious anaemia, autoimmune atrophic gastritis, Addison's disease, premature menopause,
male infertility, juvenile diabetes, Goodpasture's syndrome, pemphigus vulgaris,
pemphigoid, sympathetic ophthalmia, phacogenic uveitis, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia,
idiopathic leucopenia, primary biliary cirrhosis, active chronic hepatitis Hbs-ve, cryptogenic
cirrhosis, ulcerative colitis, Sjogren's syndrome, scleroderma, Wegener's granulomatosis,
polymyositis, dermatomyositis, discoid LE, systemic lupus erythematosus, or connective
tissue disease.
EXAMPLES
[00189]      Below are examples of specific embodiments for carrying out the present
invention. The examples are offered for illustrative purposes only, and are not intended to
                                                     43

limit the scope of the present invention in any way. Efforts have been made to ensure
accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g., amounts, temperatures, etc.), but some
experimental error and deviation should, of course, be allowed for.
[00190]     The practice of the present invention will employ, unless otherwise indicated,
conventional methods of protein chemistry, biochemistry, recombinant DNA techniques and
pharmacology, within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the
literature. See, e.g., T.E. Creighton, Proteins:Structures and MolecularProperties(W.H.
Freeman and Company, 1993); A.L. Lehninger, Biochemistry (Worth Publishers, Inc., current
addition); Sambrook, et al., Molecular Cloning: A LaboratoryManual (2nd Edition, 1989);
Methods In Enzymology (S. Colowick and N. Kaplan eds., Academic Press, Inc.);
Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, 18th Edition (Easton, Pennsylvania: Mack Publishing
Company, 1990); Carey and Sundberg Advanced Organic Chemistry 3d Ed. (Plenum Press)
Vols A and B(1992).
         Example 1: Construction of RNase-Ig Fusion Genes.
[00191]     Murine RNase 1 was amplified as a full-length cDNA from an EST library (from
Dr. C. Raine, Albert Einstein School of Medicine, Bronx, NY) who sent the clone to our
laboratory without an MTA. Sequence specific 5' and 3' primers used were from the
published sequences. The sequence of the clone was verified by sequencing analysis. The
Genebank accession number is NCBI genelD 19752. Full length human RNase 1 was isolated
from random primed and oligo dT primed cDNA derived from human pancreas total RNA
(Ambion/Applied Biosystems, Austin, TX).
[00192]     Once a full-length clone was isolated, primers were designed to create a fusion
gene with the mouse IgG2a (SEQ ID NO:114) or human IgG 1 (SEQ ID NO:110) Fc
domains. Two different primers were designed for the 5' sequence fused at the amino
terminus of the Fc tail; the first incorporated the native leader peptide from mouse (or human)
RNase, while the second attached an Agel site to the amino terminus of RNase at the
predicted signal peptide cleavage site in order to fuse the RNase to a human VKIII leader
peptide that we already had cloned and used for other expression studies. For the murine
RNase, the sequence of the first primer is:
[00193]     mribNL5'
[00194]     3Omer (RNase 5' with native leader and HindIII+Kozak)
[00195]     gTT AAg CIT gCC ACC ATg ggT CTg gAg AAg TCC CTC ATT CTg-3' (SEQ
ID NO:1)
                                                     44

[00196]      The second primer creates a gene fusion junction between an existing leader
sequence and the mature sequence at the 5' end of the RNase, at or near the predicted leader
peptide cleavage site.
[00197]      27mer (RNase 5' mature sequence (no leader, with Agel site)
[00198]      5'-gAT ACC ACC ggT Agg gAA TCT gCA gCA CAg AAg TTT CAg-3' (SEQ
ID NO:2)
[00199]      The sequence of the 3' primer for fusion to murine IgG2a at the carboxy end of
RNase and the amino terminus of the Fc tail is as follows:
[00200]      mrib3NH2
[00201]      28mer (RNase 3' end with XhoI site for fusion to mIgG2a).
[00202]      5'-ggC TCg AgC ACA gTA gCA TCA AAg tGG ACT ggT ACg TAg g-3' (SEQ
ID NO:3)
[00203]      Two more oligos were designed to create an -Ig-RNase fusion gene, where the
Ig tail is amino terminal to the RNase enzyme domain.
[00204]      mrib5X
[00205]      36mer RNase 5' end with linker aa and XbaI site for fusion to carboxy end of Fc
domain.
[002061      5'-AAA TCT AgA CCT CAA CCA ggT Agg gAA TCT gCA gCA CAg AAg
TTT CAg-3' (SEQ ID NO:4)
[002071      mrib3X
[00208]      3 1mer RNase 3' end with two stop codons and XbaI site for fusion to carboxy end
of Fc domain.
[00209]      5'-TCT AgA CTA TCA CAC AgT AgC ATC AAA gTg gAC Tgg TAC gTA g-3'
(SEQ ID NO:5)
         Example 2: Isolation of anti-RNA or anti-DNA scFvs from monoclonal antibody
         expressing hybridomas.
[00210]      An anti-RNA hybridoma designated H564 was used to isolate V regions specific
for RNA. Prior to harvesting, H564 anti-RNA hybridoma cells were kept in log phase growth
for several days in RPMI 1640 media (Invitrogen/Life Technologies, Gaithersburg, Md.)
supplemented with glutamine, pyruvate, DMEM non-essential amino acids, and penicillin
streptomycin. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation from the culture medium, and 2x10    7 cells
were used to prepare RNA. RNA was isolated from the hybridoma cells using the QIAGEN
RNAeasy kit (Valencia, Calif.) total RNA isolation kit and QIAGEN QlAshredder according
                                                   45

to the manufacturer's instructions accompanying the kit. Four microgram (4 fig) of total RNA
was used as template to prepare cDNA by reverse transcription. The RNA, 300 ng random
primers, and 500 ng Oligo dT (12-18), and 1 1d25 mM dNTPs were combined and denatured
at 80 0 C. for 5 minutes prior to addition of enzyme. Superscript III reverse transcriptase
(Invitrogen, Life Technologies) was added to the RNA plus primer mixture in a total volume
of 25 tl in the presence of 5.times.second strand buffer and 0.1 M DTT provided with the
enzyme. The reverse transcription reaction was allowed to proceed at 50 0 C for one hour.
[00211]       The cDNA generated in the reverse transcriptase reaction was purified by
QlAquick PCR purification kits (QIAGEN, Valencia CA) and tailed with a poly-G sequence
using terminal transferase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) according to manufacturer's
instructions. Tailed cDNA was again purified by QlAquick PCR purification and eluted in 30
ul elution buffer (EB buffer) provided with the kits. Two microliters of tailed cDNA was
used as template along with an anchor-tail 5' primer containing a poly-C domain, and
constant region specific, degenerate 3' primers to amplify by PCR the variable regions for the
light and heavy chain of the H564 antibody. The two variable chains were designed with
restriction enzyme sites so that a scFv could be assembled by three way ligation of the two V
regions to a linker sequence after amplification and restriction enzyme digestion.
[00212]       A (gly4ser)4 peptide linker to be inserted between the two V regions was
incorporated by amplification of this linker sequence by overlap extension PCR using
overlapping primers encoding the two halves of the molecule. PCR fragments were isolated
by agarose gel electrophoresis, fragments isolated by cutting the appropriate bands from the
gel and purifying the amplified DNA using QlAquick gel extraction kits (QIAGEN,
Valencia, CA). scFv derivatives from the H564 hybridoma were assembled as VH-linker-VL
fusion genes that could be attached at either end of a larger -Ig fusion gene. The V.sub.H
domain was amplified without a leader peptide, but included a 5' Agel restriction site for
fusion to the V.sub.L and a BglII restriction site at the 3' end for fusion to the linker domain.
[00213]       The scFv-Ig was assembled by inserting the scFv HindIII-XhoI fragment into
pDG containing the human IgGI hinge, CH2, and CH3 regions, which was digested with
restriction enzymes, HindIII and XhoI. After ligation, the ligation products were transformed
into DH5-alpha bacteria. The scFv-Ig cDNA was subjected to cycle sequencing on a PE 9700
thermocycler using a 25-cycle program by denaturing at 96 0 C for 10 seconds, annealing at
50 0 C. for 30 seconds, and extending at 72 0 C for 4 minutes. The sequencing primers were
pDG forward and reverse primers and an internal primer that annealed to the CH2 domain
                                                      46

human in the IgG constant region portion. Sequencing reactions were performed using the
Big Dye Terminator Ready Sequencing Mix v3.1 (PE-Applied Biosystems, Foster City,
Calif.) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Samples were subsequently purified
using Autoseq G25 columns (GE Healthcare) and the eluates dried in a Savant vacuum dryer,
denatured in Template Suppression Reagent (PE-ABI), and analyzed on an ABI 310 Genetic
Analyzer (PE-Applied Biosystems). The sequence was edited, translated, and analyzed using
Vector Nti version 10.0 (Informax/Invitrogen, North Bethesda, Md.).
[00214]      Construction of a Human RNaseI-hIgG1 (SEQ ID NO:125-127) fusion gene
[00215]      Human RNase l (SEQ ID NO: 113) was isolated by PCR amplification from
human pancreas total RNA obtained from Ambion/Applied Biosystems (Austin, TX). Four
microgram (4 fig) of total RNA was used as template to prepare cDNA by reverse
transcription. The RNA, 300 ng random primers, and 500 ng Oligo dT (12-18), and 1 ul 25
mM dNTPs were combined and denatured at 80 0 C for 5 minutes prior to addition of enzyme.
Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Life Technologies) was added to the RNA
plus primer mixture in a total volume of 25 tl in the presence of second strand buffer and 0.1
M DTT provided with the enzyme. The reverse transcription reaction was allowed to proceed
at 50 0 C for one hour. Reactions were further purified by QlAquick PCR purification
columns, and cDNA eluted in 40 microliters EB buffer prior to use in PCR reactions. Two
microliters cDNA eluate were added to PCR reactions containing 50 pmol 5' and 3' primers
specific for human RNase 1, and 45 microliters of PCR high fidelity supermix (Invitrogen,
Carlsbad, CA) was added to 0.2 ml PCR reaction tubes. PCR reactions were performed using
a C 1000 thermal cycler (BioRad, Hercules CA). Reactions included an initial denaturation
step at 95C for 2 minutes, followed by 34 cycles with a 94 0 C, 30 sec denaturation, 50 0 C, 30
see annealing, and 68 0 C, 1 minute extension step, followed by a final 4 minute extension at
72 0 C. Once wild type tails were isolated, the fragments were TOPO cloned into pCR2.1
vectors; DNA prepared using the QIAGEN spin plasmid miniprep kits according to
manufacturer's instructions. Plasmid DNA was sequenced using ABI Dye Terminator v3.1
ready reaction mix according to manufacturer's instructions.
         Example 3: Isolation of human and mouse -Fc domains and introduction of
         mutations into the coding sequence.
[00216]      For isolation of mouse (SEQ ID NO: 114) and human -Fc domains (SEQ ID
NO: 110), RNA was derived from mouse or human tissue as follows. A single cell suspension
was generated from mouse spleen in RPMI culture media. Alternatively, human PBMCs were
                                                    47

isolated from fresh, whole blood using Lymphocyte Separation Media (LSM) Organon
Teknika (Durham, NC), buffy coats harvested according to manufacturer's directions, and
cells washed three times in PBS prior to use. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation from the
culture medium, and 2x10 7 cells were used to prepare RNA. RNA was isolated from the cells
using the QIAGEN RNAeasy kit (Valencia, Calif.) total RNA isolation kit and QIAGEN
QlAshredder columns according to the manufacturer's instructions accompanying the kits.
One microgram (4 pig) of total RNA was used as template to prepare cDNA by reverse
transcription. The RNA, 300 ng random primers, and 500 ng Oligo dT (12-18), and 1 1d25
mM dNTPs were combined and denatured at 80 0 C for 5 minutes prior to addition of enzyme.
Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Life Technologies) was added to the RNA
plus primer mixture in a total volume of 25 tl in the presence of .second strand buffer and 0.1
M DTT provided with the enzyme. The reverse transcription reaction was allowed to proceed
at 50 0 C for one hour. cDNA was purified using QlAquick (QIAGEN) PCR purification
columns according to manufacturer's directions, and eluted in 40 microliters EB buffer prior
to use in PCR reactions.
[00217]      Wild type mouse and human -Fc domains were isolated by PCR amplification
using the cDNA described above as template. The following primers were used for initial
amplification of wild type sequences, but incorporated the desired mutational changes in the
hinge domain:
[00218]      mahIgG1CH2M: 47 mer
[00219]      5'-tgtccaccgtgtccagcacctgaactcctgggtggatcgtcagtcttcc-3'   (SEQ ID NO:6)
[00220]      hIgG1-5scc: 49 mer
[00221]      5'-agatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgt-3'    (SEQ ID NO:7)
[00222]      mahIgGIS: 51 mer
[00223]      5'-tctagattatcatttacccggagacagagagaggctcttctgcgtgtagtg-3'    (SEQ ID NO:8)
[00224]      muIgG2aCH2: 58mer
[00225]      5'-cctccatgcaaatgcccagcacctaacctcttgggtggatcatccgtcttcatcttcc-3'  (SEQ ID NO:9)
[00226]      mIgG2a-5scc: 47mer
[00227]      5'-gaagatctcgagcccagaggtcccacaatcaagccctctcctcca-3'     (SEQ ID NO:10)
[00228]      mIgG2a3S: 48mer
[00229]      5'-gtttctagattatcatttacccggagtccgagagaagctcttagtcgt-3'  (SEQ ID NO:11)
[00230]      PCR reactions were performed using a C 1000 thermal cycler (BioRad, Hercules
CA) or an Eppendorf thermal cycler (ThermoFisher Scientific, Houston TX). Reactions
                                                    48

included an initial denaturation step at 95 0 C for 2 minutes, followed by 34 cycles with a
94 0 C, 30 sec denaturation, 50 0 C, 30 see annealing, and 72 0 C, 1 minute extension step,
followed by a final 4 minute extension at 72 0 C. Once wild type tails were isolated, the
fragments were TOPO cloned into pCR2.1 vectors, DNA prepared using the QIAGEN spin
plasmid miniprep kits according to manufacturer's instructions and clones sequenced using
ABI Dye Terminator v3.1 sequencing reactions according to manufacturer's instructions.
[00231]      DNA from the correct clones were used as templates in overlap extension PCRs to
introduce mutations at the desired positions in the coding sequence for mouse IgG2a or
human -IgGI. PCR reactions were set up using the full length wild type clones as template (1
microliter), 50 pmol 5' and 3' primers to PCR each portion of the -Fc domain up to and
including the desired mutation site from each direction, and PCR hi fidelity Supermix
(Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA), in 50 microliter reaction volumes using a short amplification
cycle. As an example of the overlapping PCR mutagenesis, the primer combination used to
introduce the P33 1S mutation into human -IgG1, was as follows:
[00232]      A 5' subfragment was amplified using the full-length wild type clone as template,
and the 5' primer was hIgG 1-5scc: 5'-agatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgt-3'
(SEQ ID NO:12), while the 3' primer was P331AS: 5'
gttttctcgatggaggctgggagggctttgttggagacc-3' (SEQ ID NO:13). A 3' subfragments was
amplified using the full-length wild type clone as template and the 5' primer was P33 IS:
5'aaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcctccatcgagaaaacaatctcc-3'        (SEQ ID NO: 14), while the 3'
primer was mahIgG IS: 5'-tctagattatcatttacccggagacagagagaggctcttctgcgtgtagtg-3'         (SEQ ID
NO:15).
[00233]      Once subfragments were amplified and isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis,
they were purified by QlAquick gel purification columns and eluted in 30 microliters EB
buffer according to manufacturer's instructions. Two rounds of PCR were then performed
with the two subfragments as overlapping templates in new reactions. The cycler was paused
and the 5' (hIgG1-5sc, see above) and 3' (mahIgGIS, see above) flanking primers were
added to the reactions (50 pmol each). PCR amplifications were then carried out for 34 cycles
at the conditions described for the wild type molecules above. Full length fragments were
isolated by gel electrophoresis, and TOPO cloned into pCR2.1 vectors for sequence analysis.
Fragments from clones with the correct sequence were then subcloned into expression
vectors for creation of the different hybrid nuclease molecules described herein.
                                                      49

        Example 4: Expression of RNAse-Ig (SEO ID NO 124, 125, 126,127, 174
        (nucleotide) or 160, 161, 162,163, 175 (amino acid)), DNAse-Ig (SEO ID NO:
         118, 119,120,121,122,123, 186 (nucleotide) or SEO ID NO 154, 155, 156, 157, 158,
         159, 187 (amino acid)), multi-subunit Ig fusion constructs (SEO ID NO: 115, 116,
         117, 172, 176, 178, 180 (nucleotide) or SEO ID NO 151 152, 153, 173, 177, 179,
         181 (amino acid)), and H564 scFv-Ig fusion proteins in Stable CHO Cell Lines.
[00234]     This example illustrates expression of the different -Ig fusion genes described
herein in eukaryotic cell lines and characterization of the expressed fusion proteins by SDS
PAGE and by IgG sandwich ELISA.
[00235]     The -Ig fusion gene fragments with correct sequence were inserted into the
mammalian expression vector pDG, and DNA from positive clones was amplified using
QIAGEN plasmid preparation kits (QIAGEN, Valencia, Calif.). The recombinant plasmid
DNA (100 fig) was then linearized in a nonessential region by digestion with AscI, purified
by phenol extraction, and resuspended in tissue culture media, Excell 302 (Catalog #14312
79P, JRH Biosciences, Lenexa, Kans./SAFC ). Cells for transfection, CHO DG44 cells, were
kept in logarithmic growth, and 107 cells harvested for each transfection reaction. Linearized
DNA was added to the CHO cells in a total volume of 0.8 ml for electroporation.
[00236]      Stable production of the -Ig fusion protein was achieved by electroporation of a
selectable, amplifiable plasmid, pDG, containing the RNase-Ig cDNA under the control of
the CMV promoter, into Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. The pDG vector is a modified
version of pcDNA3 encoding the DHFR selectable marker with an attenuated promoter to
increase selection pressure for the plasmid. Plasmid DNA was prepared using Qiagen
maxiprep kits, and purified plasmid was linearized at a unique AscI site prior to phenol
extraction and ethanol precipitation. Salmon sperm DNA (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, Mo.)
was added as carrier DNA, and 100 [tg each of plasmid and carrier DNA was used to
transfect 107 CHO DG44 cells by electroporation. Cells were grown to logarithmic phase in
Excell 302 media (JRH Biosciences) containing glutamine (4 mM), pyruvate, recombinant
insulin, penicillin-streptomycin, and 2xDMEM nonessential amino acids (all from Life
Technologies, Gaithersburg, Md.), hereafter referred to as "Excell 302 complete" media.
Media for untransfected cells also contained HT (diluted from a 100x solution of
hypoxanthine and thymidine) (Invitrogen/Life Technologies). Media for transfections under
selection contained varying levels of methotrexate (Sigma-Aldrich) as selective agent,
ranging from 50 nM to 1 tM. Electroporations were performed at 280 volts, 950
microFarads. Transfected cells were allowed to recover overnight in non-selective media
prior to selective plating in 96 well flat bottom plates (Costar) at varying serial dilutions
                                                     50

ranging from 125 cells/well to 2000 cells/well. Culture media for cell cloning was Excell 302
complete, containing 50 nM methotrexate. Once clonal outgrowth was sufficient, serial
dilutions of culture supernatants from master wells were screened for expression of -Ig
fusion protein by use of an -IgG sandwich ELISA. Briefly, NUNC immulon II plates were
coated overnight at 4 0 C with 7.5 microgram/ml F(ab'2) goat anti-mouse IgG (KPL Labs,
Gaithersburg, MD) in PBS. Plates were blocked in PBS/3% BSA, and serial dilutions of
culture supernatants incubated at room temperature for 2-3 hours. Plates were washed three
times in PBS/0.05 % Tween 20, and incubated with horseradish peroxidase conjugated
F(ab'2)goat anti-mouse IgG2a (Southern Biotechnologies) and goat anti-mouse IgG (KPL)
mixed together, each at 1:3500 in PBS/1.0% BSA, for 1-2 hours at room temperature. Plates
were washed four times in PBS/0.05% Tween 20, and binding detected with SureBlue
Reserve, TMB substrate (KPL Labs, Gaithersburg, MD). Reactions were stopped by addition
of equal volume of IN HCl, and plates read at 450nM on a Spectramax Pro plate reader
(Microdevices, Sunnyvale CA). The clones with the highest production of the fusion protein
were expanded into T25 and then T75 flasks to provide adequate numbers of cells for
freezing and for scaling up production of the fusion protein. Production levels were further
increased in cultures from the four best clones by progressive amplification in methotrexate
containing culture media. At each successive passage of cells, the Excell 302 complete media
contained an increased concentration of methotrexate, such that only the cells that amplified
the DHFR plasmid could survive. The production level of the top four unamplified master
wells from the RNaseIg CHO transfectants ranged from 30-50 micrograms/ml culture. The
amplified cultures are currently being assayed to determine production levels.
[00237]      Supernatants were collected from CHO cells expressing the RNase-Ig, filtered
through 0.2 ptm PES express filters (Nalgene, Rochester, N.Y.) and were passed over a
Protein A-agarose (IPA 300 crosslinked agarose) column (Repligen, Needham, Mass.). The
column was washed with column wash buffer (90mM Tris-Base, 150mM NaCl, 0.05%
sodium azide, pH 8.7) , and bound protein was eluted using 0.1 M citrate buffer, pH 3.0.
Fractions were collected and protein concentration was determined at 280nM using a
Nanodrop (Wilmington DE) microsample spectrophotometer, and blank determination using
0.1 M citrate buffer, pH 3.0. Fractions containing fusion protein were pooled, and buffer
exchange performed by serial spins in PBS using centricon concentrators followed by
filtration through 0.2 ptm filter devices, to reduce the possibility of endotoxin contamination.
An extinction coefficient of 1.05 was determined using the protein analysis tools in the
                                                     51

Vector Nti Version 10.0 Software package (Informax, North Bethesda, Md.) and the
predicted cleavage site from the online ExPasy protein analysis tools.
         Example 5: SDS-PAGE analysis of RNaseIg fusion protein.
[00238]      Purified RNase-Ig (SEQ ID NO: 115) was analyzed by electrophoresis on SDS
Polyacrylamide gels. Fusion protein samples were boiled in SDS sample buffer with and
without reduction of disulfide bonds and applied to SDS 10% Tris-BIS gels (Catalog
#NP0301, Novex, Carlsbad, Calif.). Five micrograms of each purified protein was loaded on
the gels. The proteins were visualized after electrophoresis by Coomassie Blue staining
(Pierce Gel Code Blue Stain Reagent, Catalog #24590, Pierce, Rockford, Ill.), and destaining
in distilled water. Molecular weight markers were included on the same gel (Kaleidoscope
Prestained Standards, Catalog #161-0324, Bio-Rad, Hercules, Calif). Other samples were run
as follows: Rnase-Ig fusion protein in the sampling buffer (62.5mM Tris-HCl, pH6.8,
2 % S DS,10% glycerol, 0.010% Bromophenol blue) with and without 5% 2-mercaptoethanol)
was loaded onto the 4-12% pre-cast gel (Bio-RAD). The gel was running at 100 volts until
the dye ran off the gel. The gel was stained in the GelCode Blue (Thermo scientific) at room
temperature overnight and then washed with water.
[00239]      FIG. 3 shows the RNase-Ig fusion protein compared to mouse IgG. Rnase-Ig was
purified from supernatant transfected CHO cells by binding and elution from Protein A
sepharose. The SDS-PAGE gel shows that Rnase-Ig is approximately 50 kDa when reduced
and approximately 110 kDa when non-reduced.
         Example 6: Detection of RNase-Ig in mouse sera.
[00240]      SRED Assay
[00241]      The 2% agarose gel was prepared with distilled water. Poly-IC (Sigma) was
dissolved in distilled water at 3 mg/ml and the gel plate was prepared as follows: 1.5 ml
reaction buffer (0.2M Tris-HCl pH 7.0, 40mM EDTA and 0.1 mg/ml ethidium bromide), 1 ml
Poly-IC and 0.5 ml water were place in the tube and maintained at 50 0 C for 5 min. 3 ml of the
agarose (kept at 50 0 C) was added to the tube. The mixture was immediately poured onto a
glass plate. Sampling wells were punched in the gel. 2 1tl   of each serum sample was loaded
into wells and the gel was incubated at 37 0 C for 4 hours in the moist chamber. Then the gel
was incubated in a buffer (20 mM sodium acetate pH5.2, 20mg/ml ethidium bromide) on ice
for 30 min. and read under UV.
[00242]      FIG. 4 shows RNase activity from three mice (410, 413, and 418) after
intravenous injection of Rnase-Ig fusion protein (SEQ ID NO:150) (purified in this
                                                    52

experiment from supernatant of transfected COS cells by binding and elution from protein A
sepharose). A standard was used in the top row. Notice a second injection for mouse 410
(see arrow) after 2 weeks. 2pl serum from each of three mice was loaded on 1% agarose gel
containing 0.5mg/ml poly-C. The gel was incubated for 4 hours in a moist chamber at 37 0 C,
and then immersed in a buffer containing 20mM sodium acetate and 20ug/ml ethidium
bromide for 30 min. The RNase activity is reflected by the size and intensity around the
central well. This data shows that the RNase-Ig fusion protein has an extended half-life in
mouse serum.
         Example 7: Use of an anti-RNA ELISA to measure RNA specific antibodies in
         mouse sera.
[00243]      A 96-well plate (Nunc, Thermal fisher scientific) was coated with 50 pig/ml of
Poly-L-Lysine (Sigma) overnight. After washing five times with PBS containing 0.05%
Tween, the plate was coated with 10 pig/ml of yeast RNA in PBS at 4 0C overnight. After
washing five times, the plate was blocked with PBS containing 1% BSA at room temperature
for 2 hours. Serum samples at 1:50 dilution were added to the plate and incubated at 40 C
overnight. Hybridoma H564 (anti-RNA) culture medium was used as standard, using two
fold serial dilutions starting at 1:300. Detection antibody was anti-mouse IgG conjugated
with alkaline phosphatase (Jackson Lab), and was added to the plate at 1:5000 for 1 hour at
room temperature. Phosphatase substrate (Sigma) was dissolved in developing buffer
(ThermoFisher Scientific) and added to the plate at 50pl/well. Samples were read at 405nm
using a Spectramax Plus plate reader (Microdevices, Sunnyvale, CA).
[00244]      FIG. 5 shows the results from the anti-RNA Antibody ELISA titer before and
after intravenous injection of RNase-Ig fusion protein (SEQ ID NO: 150) from mouse 410.
The pre-coated Poly-L-lysine (50[tg/ml) plate was coated with 1Oug/ml yeast RNA. Serum
(1:50) was loaded on the plate and incubated overnight at 4 0 C. Detection antibody was anti
mouse IgG-alkaline phosphatase (Jackson Labs) at 1:5000 for 1 hour at room temperature,
and then phosphatase substrate was added and read at 405nm. The data show that injection of
Rnase-Ig caused a reduction in titer of anti-RNA antibody that persisted for over 3 weeks.
[00245]      FIG. 6 shows the results from the anti-RNA Antibody ELISA titer before and
after injection of RNase-Ig fusion protein (SEQ ID NO: 150) within three weeks from mouse
413. The experiment was done as described for mouse 410. Titer of anti-RNA antibody was
reduced after injection of Rnase-Ig.
                                                    53

         Example 8: IFN-alpha production by human PBMCs is inhibited by RNaseIg
         addition to cultures in vitro.
[00246]     RNase-Ig (SEQ ID NO: 150) addition abolished the induction of interferon-a from
human peripheral blood mononuclear cells stimulated using immune complexes formed with
serum from an SLE patient (J 11) plus nuclear extract (NE). Briefly, ELISA plates were
coated with 50 microliters 1:2500 capture antibody (anti-IFN alpha, PBL 21112-1,
Piscataway, NJ), and incubated overnight at 40 C. Plates were washed with PBS/0.05% Tween
20, blocked in PBS/1% BSA for 2 hours at room temperature, washed with PBS/0.05%
Tween-20, and incubated with standard dilutions of IFN-alpha, or with serial dilutions of
serum samples, and incubated 2hours at room temperature. Plates were washed and incubated
with 1:2000 detection antibody (PBL 31101-2, Piscataway, NJ) in PBS/1% BSA. Plates were
washed in PBS/0.05% Tween-20, and incubated with 50 microliters donkey anti-rabbit HRP
(Jackson Immunoresearch, Westgrove, PA) at 1:12,000 in PBS/i% BSA. Plates were washed
five times prior to addition of TMB substrate. Reactions were stopped by addition of 12
volume 2N H2SO4, and samples read at 450 nm on a Spectramax Pro plate reader
(MicroDevices, Sunnyvale, CA). The results are shown in FIG. 7, which shows RNase-Ig
addition abolished the induction of interferon-a from human peripheral blood mononuclear
cells stimulated using immune complexes formed with serum from an SLE patient (J 11) plus
nuclear extract.
         Example 9: Phenotype of TLR7.lxRNaseA double transgenic mice.
[00247]     We have created mice that overexpress RNaseA (RNase Tg). This nuclease is
expressed at high levels in RNase Tg mice (see Fig. 8). We have developed both a single
radial diffusion (SRED) method (left panel) and a much more quantitative ELISA to quantify
RNase in the serum (see Fig. 9). We crossed RNaseA Tg with TLR7.1 Tg mice to create the
double Tg (DTg). TLR7.1 mice have 8-16 copies of TLR7 and develop a very aggressive,
rapidly progressive lupus-like disease and start to die at 3 mo of age with a median survival
of 6 mo. In a preliminary analysis, we bled DTg and littermate controls at 3 mo of age to see
whether the DTg mice exhibited signs of improvement. As shown in Fig. 8, DTg mice had
very high levels of RNase in their serum (equivalent to >13 U/ml RNase based on our
standard with specific activity of 993 U /mg). RNaseA concentration in Tg and DTg mice
was also measured by ELISA assay as shown in Fig. 9. The RNase A Tg and
TLR7. 1XRNaseA Dtg mice have RNase A serum concentrations between 1-2 ng/ml.
[00248]     Detailed method for Rnase A ELISA (Example 9, Figure 9)
                                                    54

     1.  Coat plate with anti-RnaseA Abeam Ab(ab6610) : 2.5-1Oug/ml O/N in 4C.
     2.  Wash plate 3 times with 0.05% Tween/IXPBS
     3.  Block with 1%BSA in PBS for at least 1 hour
     4.  Wash plate 3 times with 0.05% Tween/1XPBS
     5.  Load samples. Sample dilutions at 1:50
     6.  Incubate Rm Temp for 2 hours
     7.  Wash plate 3 times with 0.05% Tween/IXPBS
     8.  Prepare dilution of biotin labeled Anti Rnase Ab at dilution of 1:4500 (2.2ug/ml).
         Leave RT for 1 hour (Rockland 200-4688: 10mg/ml).
     9.  Wash plate 3 times
     10. Dilute StrepAV HRP (Biolegend 405210) 1:2500. Cover with foil and leave at RT for
         25-30 min.
     11. Wash 6 times, let the liquid sit in wells for at least 30 seconds in between washes.
     12. Add BD OptEIA substrate A+B 1:1. Wait until color changes 5-10min max. Don't let
         the top well standard go over 1.0. Add 80 ul. (CatNos: 51-2606KC;ReagentA, 51
         2607KC;ReagentB)
     13. Add 40ul of IM sulfuric acid to stop reaction
[00249]      Product/Reagent information:
[00250]      RNaseA Ab: ab6610 (90mg/ml)
[00251]      ELISA buffer: 1%BSA in PBS
[00252]      ELISA wash buffer: 0.05% Tween/IXPBS
[00253]      Anti RNaseA biotin conjugated Ab: Rockland: 200-4688(10mg/ml)
[00254]      Strep AV HRP: Biolegend 405210
[00255]      BD OptEIA reagent A and B: 51-2606KC and 51-2607KC
         Example 10. Survival curves for TLR7.1 transgenic mouse strains.
[00256]       There was a highly significant difference between the DTg and the TLR7.1
littermate controls in survival. As shown in Figure 10, at 10 months, 610% of TLR7.1 mice
had died, whereas 310%of DTg mice had died. This data shows that overexpression of
RNaseA exerted a strong therapeutic effect. The reasons why TLR7.1 mice die prematurely
is not entirely clear, although severe anemia, thrombocytopenia, and glomerulonephritis
could play a part. To determine whether red cell and platelet counts were positively impacted
by RNaseA expression in the DTg mice, we performed blood counts but found no differences
between the TLR7.1 and DTg mice. In contrast, there was a significant improvement in
kidney histopathology in the DTg mice. We observed decreased deposition of IgG and C3 in
DTg mice. PAS staining, which reflects inflammation in the mesangium was also reduced in
DTg mice compared to TLR7.1 littermate controls. When we have now compared
macrophage infiltration of the kidneys using anti-MAC-2 (galectin3) antibody (Lyoda et al.
Nephrol Dial Transplat 22: 3451, 2007), there were many fewer mac-2 positive cells in the
                                                      55

glomeruli of the DTg mice. The results of counting 20 glomeruli per mouse in 5 mice in each
group revelaed mean +/- SE of 3.8+/-1.1 and 1.4+/-0.2 for single versus DTg respectively,
p=.05. In addition, we quantified glomerular tuft size and observed a significant reduction in
glomerular tuft size in the DTg mice (179+/- 41 versus 128+/- 16.8 um2 in single versus DTg
respectively, p=0.037). In summary, TLR7. 1XRNaseA DTg mice survive longer than their
single Tg TLR7.1 littermates and have less inflammation and injury in their kidneys.
        Example 11. Analysis of IRGs in spleens of TLR Tg mice.
[00257]     Analysis of interferon response genes (IRGs) in the spleens of TLR7.1 Tg and
TLR7.1 X RNaseA DTg mice mice showed that expression of the IRF7 gene was
significantly lower in the DTg mice (p=0.03). Some other IRGs including MX1 and VIGI
were lower in DTg mice compared to Tg mice, but the differences were not significant. See
Figure 11. Quantitative PCR was performed as follows: total RNA was isolated from mouse
spleens using the RNeasy mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA), DNase treated using Turbo
DNA-free (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) and first-strand cDNA was produced
with the RNA-to-cDNA kit (Applied Biosystems) using random primers. The 260/280 was
between 1.7 and 2.0 for isolated RNA measured with a NanoDrop (Thermo Scientific,
Waltham, MA, USA). cDNA was diluted to an equivalent of Ing/ul total RNA and 8ul were
used per reaction. Primers for the reference gene (1 8s) and genes of interest (GOI) were
synthesized (IDT, Coralville, Iowa, USA) and diluted to the appropriate concentrations for
qPCR using molecular grade water. BLAST results of the primers show specific sequence
homology only to the reference gene or GOI. Reactions in duplicate (20ul) were run on an
ABI Fast 7500 system using a 1:1 mix of template and primer to SensiMix SYBR low-ROX
master mix (Bioline, London, UK). Relative quantification was calculated using the 2 -ddCT
method with age matched wild type B6 mice as baseline to determine fold changes for each
GOI. The dissociation curves for the reactions show a single melt peak for each gene. The
standard curve showed similar amplification efficiencies for each gene and that template
concentrations were within the linear dynamic range for each of primer set.
        Example 12. Structures for generating hybrid nuclease molecules.
[00258]     Hybrid nuclease molecules were designed to incorporate desired structures and
functional activity of single enzyme or multi-enzyme structures as modular cassettes with
compatible restriction enzyme sites for shuttling and domain exchange. The schematic
structure of different embodiments of hybrid nuclease molecules is illustrated in Figure 12.
                                                   56

Primers are shown in Table 1. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of representative
hybrid nuclease molecules are shown in Table 2.
[00259]      General Approach for Generation of Hybrid nuclease molecules
[00260]      Human cDNAs were isolated from human pancreas RNA (Ambion) or human
PBMC RNA from normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes (approximately 5x10e6)
using QIAgen RNAeasy kits (Valencia, CA) and QlAshredder kits to homogenize cell lysates
(Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Human PBMCs were isolated from heparinized human blood
diluted 1:1 in D-PBS and layered over LSM Lymphocyte Separation Medium (MP
Biomedicals, Irvine, CA) Ficoll gradients.
[00261]      Mouse spleen RNA was isolated using QIAgen RNAeasy kits (Valencia, CA)
from approximately 5x10e6 splenocytes. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation from the
culture medium, and 5x10e6 cells were used to prepare RNA. RNA was isolated from the
cells using the QIAGEN RNAeasy kit (Valencia, Calif.) total RNA isolation kit and
QIAGEN QlAshredder according to the manufacturer's instructions accompanying the kit.
One to two microgram (1-2 ptg) of total RNA was used as template to prepare cDNA by
reverse transcription. The RNA, 300 ng random primers, and 500 ng Oligo dT (12-18), and 1
 tl 25 mM dNTPs were combined and denatured at 80 0 C for 5 minutes prior to addition of
enzyme. Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Life Technologies) was added to
the RNA plus primer mixture in a total volume of 25 tl in the presence of 5 times second
strand buffer and 0.1 M DTT provided with the enzyme. The reverse transcription reaction
was allowed to proceed at 50 0 C for one hour.
[00262]      Between 10-100ng cDNA was used in PCR amplification reactions using primers
specific for the nuclease gene of interest (RNaseA, RNasel, DNasel, Trex1, DNase1L3, etc.)
For initial cloning reactions, primers were designed to isolate the full length cDNA or
truncation products encoding the gene of interest. Full length or shortened PCR fragments
were isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis, and purified using Qiagen QlAquick columns to
remove nucleotides, primers, and unwanted amplified products. Purified fragments were
cloned into pCR2.1 TOPO cloning vectors (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and transformed into
TOP 10 competent bacteria. Isolated colonies were picked into Luria Broth media containing
50 ug/ml carbenicillin, and grown overnight to isolate plasmids. TOPO clones were screened
for inserts of the correct size by digestion with EcoRI (NEB, Ipswich, MA) restriction
enzyme and agarose gel electrophoresis of digested fragments. DNA sequence analysis of
positive clones was performed with ABI Ready Reaction Mix v 3.1 and analyzed using an
                                                    57

ABI 3730 XL DNA sequencer. Once correct clones were obtained, further sequence
modifications were designed and PCR reactions performed to generate the desired alleles or
expression cassettes. Truncation products and alleles were generated by PCR mutagenesis
using overlapping primers for introduction of mutations at specific positions in the genes.
Linkers were synthesized by overlapping PCR using internal overlapping primers and
successive rounds of PCR to attach additional sequence to each terminus. Hybrid nuclease
molecules were assembled as a string of several interchangeable cassettes. Molecules of the
preferred embodiment contain a fixed leader peptide, a nuclease cassette, an optional cassette
encoding a choice of several different polypeptide linkers, an -Ig Fc domain cassette with
either a STOP codon or a linker at the carboxyl end of the CH3 domain, and for resolvlCase
type molecules, a second linker cassette, followed by a second nuclease cassette. Figure 12
illustrate the cassette type structure of these hybrid nuclease molecules and examples of
potential sequences inserted at each position. Once hybrid nuclease molecules were
assembled, they were transferred to a mammalian expression plasmid pDG appropriate for
transient expression in COS7 or other cells and stable expression in CHO DG44 cells using
selection for DHFR with methotrexate.
[00263]      Transient Expression of Hybrid nuclease molecules
[00264]      COS-7 cells were transiently transfected with expression vector pDG containing
hybrid nuclease molecule gene inserts. The day before transfection, cells were seeded at
4x10e5 cells per 60 mm dish in 4 ml DMEM (ThermoFisher/Mediatech cell gro) + 10% FBS
tissue culture media. DMEM basal media was supplemented with 4.5 g/L glucose, sodium
pyruvate, L-glutamine 4 mM, and non-essential amino acids. Fetal bovine serum (Hyclone,
Logan, UT ThermoFisher Scientific) was added to media at 10% final volume. Cells were
incubated at 37 0 C, 5% C02 overnight and were approximately 40-80% confluent on the day
of transfection. Plasmid DNA was prepared using Qiagen (Valencia, CA) QlAprep miniprep
kits according to manufacturer's instructions, and eluted in 50 ul EB buffer. DNA
concentrations were measured using a Nanodrop 1000 (Thermo Fisher Scientific,
Wilmington DE) spectrophotometer. Plasmid DNA was transfected using Polyfect (Qiagen,
Valencia, CA) transfection reagent according to manufacturer's instructions, using 2.5 ug
plasmid DNA per 60 mm dish and 15 ul polyfect reagent in 150 ul serum free DMEM
transfection cocktails. After complex formation, reactions were diluted into 1 ml cell growth
media containing serum and all supplements, and added drop-wise to the plates containing 3
                                                     58

ml fresh DMEM complete culture media. Transient transfections were incubated for 48-72
hours prior to harvesting culture supernatants for further analysis.
[00265]      Generation of Stable CHO DG44 transfectants expressing the hybrid nuclease
molecules of interest
[00266]      Stable production of the hybrid nuclease molecules was achieved by
electroporation of a selectable, amplifiable plasmid, pDG, containing the nuclease-Ig cDNA
under the control of the CMV promoter, into Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. The pDG
vector is a modified version of pcDNA3 encoding the DHFR selectable marker with an
attenuated promoter to increase selection pressure for the plasmid. Plasmid DNA was
prepared using Qiagen maxiprep kits, and purified plasmid was linearized at a unique AscI
site prior to phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation. Salmon sperm DNA (Sigma-Aldrich,
St. Louis, Mo.) was added as carrier DNA, and 100 [tg each of plasmid and carrier DNA was
used to transfect 107 CHO DG44 cells by electroporation. Cells were grown to logarithmic
phase in Excell 302 media (JRH Biosciences) containing glutamine (4 mM), pyruvate,
recombinant insulin, penicillin-streptomycin, and 2xDMEM nonessential amino acids (all
from Life Technologies, Gaithersburg, Md.), hereafter referred to as "Excell 302 complete"
media. Media for untransfected cells also contained HT (diluted from a 100x solution of
hypoxanthine and thymidine) (Invitrogen/Life Technologies). Media for transfections under
selection contained varying levels of methotrexate (Sigma-Aldrich) as selective agent,
ranging from 50 nM to 1 tM. Electroporations were performed at 280 volts, 950
microFarads. Transfected cells were allowed to recover overnight in non-selective media
prior to selective plating in 96 well flat bottom plates (Costar) at varying serial dilutions
ranging from 125 cells/well to 2000 cells/well. Culture media for cell cloning was Excell 302
complete, containing 50 nM methotrexate. Once clonal outgrowth was sufficient, serial
dilutions of culture supernatants from master wells were screened for expression of hybrid
nuclease molecules by use of an -IgG sandwich ELISA. Briefly, NUNC immulon II plates
were coated overnight at 40 C with 7.5 microgram/ml F(ab'2) goat anti-mouse IgG (KPL
Labs, Gaithersburg, MD) or 2 ug/ml goat anti-human or anti-mouse IgG (Jackson
Immunoresearch, West Grove PA) in PBS. Plates were blocked in PBS/2-3% BSA, and serial
dilutions of culture supernatants incubated at room temperature for 2-3 hours. Plates were
washed three times in PBS/0.05 % Tween 20, and incubated with horseradish peroxidase
conjugated F(ab'2)goat anti-mouse IgG2a (Southern Biotechnologies) and goat anti-mouse
IgG (KPL) mixed together, each at 1:3500 in PBS/1.0% BSA, or in horseradish peroxidase
                                                     59

conjugated F(ab')2 goat anti-human IgGI (Jackson Immunoresearch, West Grove, PA) at
1:2500 for 1-2 hours at room temperature. Plates were washed four times in PBS/0.05%
Tween 20, and binding detected with SureBlue Reserve, TMB substrate (KPL Labs,
Gaithersburg, MD). Reactions were stopped by addition of equal volume of IN HCl, and
plates read at 450nM on a Spectramax Pro plate reader (Microdevices, Sunnyvale CA). The
clones with the highest production of the hybrid nuclease molecule were expanded into T25
and then T75 flasks to provide adequate numbers of cells for freezing and for scaling up
production of the fusion protein. Production levels were further increased in cultures from the
four best clones by progressive amplification in methotrexate containing culture media. At
each successive passage of cells, the Excell 302 complete media contained an increased
concentration of methotrexate, such that only the cells that amplified the DHFR plasmid
could survive.
[00267]      Supernatants were collected from CHO cells expressing the hybrid nuclease
molecule, filtered through 0.2 ptm PES express filters (Nalgene, Rochester, N.Y.) and were
passed over a Protein A-agarose (IPA 300 crosslinked agarose) column (Repligen, Needham,
Mass.). The column was washed with column wash buffer (90mM Tris-Base, 150mM NaCl,
0.05% sodium azide, pH 8.7) , and bound protein was eluted using 0.1 M citrate buffer, pH
3.0. Fractions were collected and protein concentration was determined at 280nM using a
Nanodrop (Wilmington DE) microsample spectrophotometer, and blank determination using
0.1 M citrate buffer, pH 3.0. Fractions containing hybrid nuclease molecules were pooled,
and buffer exchange performed by serial spins in PBS using centricon concentrators followed
by filtration through 0.2 ptm filter devices, to reduce the possibility of endotoxin
contamination.
         Example 13. Analysis of Enzyme Kinetics for hRNase1-G88D-hIgG1 [SCCH
         P238S-K322S-P331S].
[00268]      The human RNasel sequence was isolated from human pancreas RNA by random
primed cDNA reverse transcription and PCR amplification as described in Example 12 for
nuclease molecules. The following primers at 50 pmol per reaction were used from the
primer set listed in the PCR primer table.
[00269]      hRNase5'age: accggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc (SEQ ID NO:16)
[00270]      hRNase3'bx: ctcgagatctgtagagtcctccacagaagcatcaaagtgg         (SEQ ID NO:17)
                                                     60

[00271]     The mutant form of human RNase G88D was created by using the following two
primers in PCR and overlap PCR reactions to introduce a mutation at position 88 that alters
the resistance of the enzyme to the cytoplasmic inhibitor.
[00272]     hRNaseG88D-S: agactgccgcctgacaaacgactccaggtaccc (SEQ ID NO:18)
[00273]     hRNAseG88D-AS: gggtacctggagtcgtttgtcaggcggcagtct (SEQ ID NO:19)
[00274]     Both wild type and mutant versions of human RNasel were isolated and cloned as
described for hybrid nuclease molecules above. The wild type sequence was cloned using the
first two primers listed above. Once the RNase fragments were TOPO cloned and sequenced,
the AgeI-XhoI cassettes were transferred to the pDG expression vector already containing the
human VK3LP insert and the human IgG1-WT cassette. Constructs were verified by
digestion, and plasmid DNA prepared for transient transfections. Once function was
confirmed from small scale transient transfections, the molecules were stably transfected into
CHO DG44 in order to express sufficient quantities for further in vitro analysis. The wild
type human RNase1 fusion protein is shown in Table 2, hVK3LP-hRNasel-WT-hIgG1-WT
(SEQ ID NO: 163). Similarly, wild type human RNasel was also expressed as a fusion gene
with a (gly4ser)4 (SEQ ID NO:125 or SEQ ID NO:161) or (gly4ser)5 (SEQ ID NO:126 or
SEQ ID NO:162) linker domain inserted between the hRNase cassette and the hIgG 1 Fc
domain. The G88D mutant of human RNasel was also expressed as a fusion gene designated
hVK3LP-hRNase-G88D-hIgG1-WT (SEQ ID NO:124 or 160) or hIgG1-SCCH-P238S
K322S-P331S (SEQ ID NO:174 or 175), listed in Table 2.
[00275]     The Lineweaver Burk plot of enzyme kinetics for the mutant hRNasel-G88D
hIgG1[SCCH-P238S-K322S-P331S] (SEQ ID NO:175) is shown in Figure 13. To further
define the functional characteristics of the bivalent RNase-Ig fusion protein, we performed
preliminary determinations of the Michaelis constant, Km. Enzyme kinetics of purified
human RNase l-Ig fusion protein was assayed using the RNase Alert Substrate (Ambion/IDT,
San Diego, CA.) according to manufacturer's instructions and fluorescence assayed using a
Spectramax M2 microplate reader (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA). Fluorescence data
was collected at 30 second intervals over the course of a 30 minute incubation, and analyzed
using SoftmaxPro Software (Molecular Devices) Reaction rates at different substrate
concentrations were measured and the data is shown in the form of a Lineweaver Burke plot.
        Example 14. Analysis of Binding of hRNase1-hIgG to human monocytic lines.
[00276]     Protein A purified hybrid nuclease molecules hRNasel-hIgG1-WT were
incubated with human monocytic cell lines THP-1 or U937 to assess FcR mediated binding
                                                    61

of the wild type or mutant Fc containing molecules. Figure 14 shows the binding pattern of
hRNasel-WT-hIgG1-WT (SEQ ID NO:161) to these two cell lines. Cells were incubated
with 5 ug/ml purified fusion protein in PBS/2% FBS for 45 minutes on ice, washed three
times in PBS/2% FBS, and incubated with FITC-goat anti-human IgG (Fc specific) (Jackson
Immunoresearch, West Grove, PA) at 1:200 for 45 minutes on ice. Cells were washed two
times in PBS/2% FBS and analyzed by flow cytometry using a FACS Canto (BD, Franklin
Lakes, NJ) flow cytometer, and FlowJo software (TreeStar, Ashland, OR).
        Example 15. IVIg Blocking of hRNase1-hIgG1 binding to human monocytic
        lines.
[00277]     THP-1 or U937 cells were pre-incubated with IVIg starting at 10 mg/ml and
performing 10-fold serial dilutions across the wells of a 96 well plate. Cells (approximately
1xOe6 per well) were incubated on ice for 45 minutes. Pre-bound cells were washed twice
and AF750 conjugated hRNasel-WT-hIgG1-WT (SEQ ID NO: 161) at approximately 5 ug/ml
was added to each well. Binding reactions were incubated 45 minutes on ice, washed twice
in PBS/2% FBS, and analyzed by flow cytometry as described above. IVIg was able to
partially block the binding of the labeled nuclease fusion protein, but even at 10 mg/ml, there
was still residual binding detectable above background. FIG. 15 shows the blocking activity
of human IVIg for binding to U937 and THP-1 cells by hRNasel-WT-hIgG1-WT (SEQ ID
NO: 161).
        Example 16. Trex1-Ig activity assay.
[00278]     Murine TrexI was cloned from mouse cDNA using the primers listed below:
[00279]     mTrexl-5'age: accggtatgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtcaca (SEQ ID NO:20)
[00280]     mTrex1-3'bx: ctcgagatctgttgttccagtggtagccggagtgccgtacatg (SEQ ID NO:21)
[00281]     PCR reactions were performed using 50 pmol each primer in a total volume of 50
ul, under an amplification profile of 94C 30 sec; 50C 60 sec; 68C 90 see for 35 cycles of
amplification. PCR products were cloned into the pCR2.1 vector and TOPO clones screened
as previously described for prototype nuclease fusion gene cloning. Once sequence was
verified, the cassettes were subcloned into the pDG expression vector fused to the mIgG tail
or co-cloned with one of the (g4s)n linkers to construct Trexl-lnIk molecules with different
length linkers. Plasmid isolates were transiently transfected into COS cells as described and
stable CHO transfectants generated as described for prototype nuclease fusion genes.
[00282]     Fusion genes were constructed encoding TrexlIg as follows: the genes
incorporate the human VK3 leader peptide fused to murine TrexI truncated at the COOH
                                                   62

terminus by 72 amino acids (to remove the intracellular nuclear targeting sequences) fused to
a (gly4ser)4 (SEQ ID NO:130) or (gly4ser)5 linker (SEQ ID NO:13 1), fused to the murine
IgG2a/c allele that incorporates some changes from the IgGc sequence of the Balb/c IgG2a
allele.
[00283]     The exonuclease activities of Trex1-Ig were measured in 30ul reactions
containing 20mM Tris (pH7.5), 5mM MgCl2 , 2mM DTT, using a 36-mer oligonucleotide as
substrate. Incubation reactions were allowed to proceed for 20-30 min at 37 0 C. Samples
were subjected to electrophoresis on 23% polyacrylamide DNA gels overnight. Gels were
incubated in TBE buffer containing 0.5 ug/ml ethidium bromide. The DNA was visualized by
UV transilluminator, and photographed using a Kodak EDAS 290 digital camera equipped
with ethidium bromide filters and analyzed using Kodak Molecular Imaging Software. The
trexI activity assay results for COS produced mTrexl-(g4s)4-mIgG2a-c (SEQ ID NO: 166)
and mTrexl-(g4s)5-mgG2a-c (SEQ ID NO: 167) are shown in Figure 16.
        Example 17. Western Blot of mTrex1-Ig single hybrid nuclease molecules
        produced by COS-7 transient transfection.
[00284]     COS-7 cells were transiently transfected with plasmids containing hybrid nuclease
molecules encoding TrexI-Ig as follows: the genes incorporate the human VK3 leader
peptide fused to murine TrexI truncated at the COOH terminus by 72 amino acids (to remove
the nuclear envelope targeting sequences) fused to a (gly4ser)4 or (gly4ser)5 linker, fused to
the murine IgG2a/c allele that incorporates some changes from the IgGc sequence from the
Balb/c IgG2a allele. COS supernatants were harvested after 72 hours and .5-1.0 ml samples
(depending on the experiment) were immunoprecipitated overnight at 40 C with 100 ul protein
A-agarose beads. Protein A beads were centrifuged and washed twice in PBS prior to
resuspending in reducing SDS-PAGE loading buffer. Samples were heat treated at 1OOC for
5 minutes, protein A beads centrifuged to pellet, and sample buffer loaded onto 10% SDS
PAGE gels. Samples were electrophoresed at 150 volts for 1.5-2 hours, and gels blotted to
nitrocellulose membranes at 30 mAmp for 1 hour. Western blots were blocked in TBS/5%
non-fat milk overnight. Blots were incubated with 1:2500 HRP (horseradish peroxidase)
conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG2a/c (Fc specific, KPL) for 1.5 hours at room temperature,
washed in PBS/0.5% Tween20 five or more times, and blots developed using ECL reagent.
FIG. 17 shows a Western blot of immunoprecipitates from COS7 culture supernatants
expressing mTrexl-(g4s)4 (SEQ ID NO:166) or (g4s)5-mlgG2a-c (SEQ ID NO:167) fusion
proteins.
                                                   63

        Example 18. Exonuclease activity of DNase1L3Ig CHO derived fusion protein.
[00285]     DNase1L3 was cloned from mouse spleen cDNA using the following primer pair
to clone the mDNase1L3 including its native leader peptide sequence.
[00286]     mdnase1L3-NL: GTT AAG CTT GCC ACC ATG TCC CTG CAC CCA GCT
TCC CCA CGC CTG (SEQ ID NO:22)
[00287]     Mdnase1L3-3bx: CTC GAG ATC TGA GGA GCG ATT GCC TTT TTT TCT
CTT TTT GAG AG (SEQ ID NO:23)
[00288]     Alternatively, PCR reactions were set up using the following primer pair to attach
to the human VK3 leader peptide instead of the native leader.
[00289]     mdnase1L3-age: ACC GGT CTA AGG CTC TGC TCC TTC AAT GTG AGG
TCC TTT GGA (SEQ ID NO:24)
[00290]     Mdnase1L3-3bx: CTC GAG ATC TGA GGA GCG ATT GCC TTT TTT TCT
CTT TTT GAG AG (SEQ ID NO:25)
[00291]     PCR reactions were performed using 50 pmol each primer in a totoal volume of
50 ul, under an amplification profile of 94C 30 sec; 50C 60 sec; 68C 90 see for 35 cycles of
amplification. PCR products were cloned into the pCR2.1 vector and TOPO clones screened
as previously described for prototype nuclease fusion gene cloning. Once sequence was
verified, the cassettes were subcloned into the pDG expression vector fused to the mIgG tail.
Plasmid isolates were transiently transfected into COS cells as described and stable CHO
transfectants generated as described for prototype nuclease fusion genes.
[00292]     The exonuclease activity in protein extracts from DNase1L3Ig (SEQ ID NO:185)
CHO clones was measured in 30ul reactions containing 20mM Tris (pH7.5), 5mM MgCl2 ,
2mM DTT, and a substrate. Incubation was 20-30 min at 37 C. Samples were then run on
agarose DNA gel overnight. The gel was incubated in TBE buffer containing Ethidium
bromide. The DNA was visualized under UV. The results of chromatin digestion analysis are
shown in Figure 18.
        Example 19. Dose titration of increasing volumes of CHO supernatant for
        exonuclease activity.
[00293]     Figure 19 shows titration analysis of the exonuclease digestion patterns obtained
from COS supernatants expressing DNase1L3Ig fusion proteins (SEQ ID NO:183 or 185).
Nuclear DNA Degradation assays were performed as follows: HeLa cells were cultured in
DMEM media and nuclei from 1Oe5 cells were isolated using NP-40 lysis. Nuclei were
diluted into 200ul reaction buffer containing 1OmM Hepes (pH 7.0), 5OmM NaCl , 2mM
                                                    64

MgCl 2 , 2mM CaCl 2, and 40mM b-glycerophosphate. Nuclei were incubated for 3 hours at
37 0 C in the volumes of culture supernatant indicated on the figure from DNase1L3
transfected COS cells. Nuclear DNA was isolated using QiAmp blood DNA minikit. DNA
was analyzed by 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis. For control reactions, heparin was used at
250 i.u./ml, to inhibit nuclease activity.
         Example 20: Construction and expression of DNasel-Ig single and dual enzyme
         hybrid nuclease molecules.
[00294]      Naturally occurring alleles of human DNasel or DNasel like molecules have been
reported. The Al 14F mutation has been previously reported to occur in natural variants of
human DNAse 1 like enzymes, and to result in actin resistance of the enzymes containing this
sequence change. See Pan, CQ, Dodge TH, Baker DL, Prince WE, Sinicropi DV, and
Lazarus RA. J Biol Chem 273: 18374-18381, (1998); Zhen A, Parmelee D, Hyaw H,
Coleman TA, Su K, Zhang J, Gentz R, Ruben S, Rosen C, and Li Y. Biochem and Biophys
Res Comm 231: 499-504 (1997); and Rodriguez AM, Rodin D, Nomura H, Morton CC,
Weremowicz S, and Schneider MC. Genomics 42: 507-513 (1997), all of which are herein
incorporated by reference.
[00295]      Similarly, the G105R mutation has been reported recently as a single nucleotide
polymorphism in the gene encoding human DNAse 1 that is polymorphic in some or all
populations, and that is relevant to autoimmunity. (See Yasuda T, Ueki M, Takeshita H,
Fujihara J, Kimura-Kataoka K, Lida R, Tsubota E, Soejima M, Koda Y, Dato H, Panduro A.
Int J Biochem Cell Biol 42(7): 1216-1225 (2010), herein incorporated by reference). Allelic
variants at this position resulted in high activity harboring DNase 1 isoforms relative to wild
type. Another naturally occurring, polymorphic mutation (R2 IS) has also been reported to
confer higher activity. (See Yasuda, supra)
[00296]      SLE patients have been reported to have significantly decreased levels of DNasel
activity (See Martinez-Valle F, Balada E, Ordi-Ros J, Bujan-Rivas S, Sellas-Femandez A,
Vilardell-Tarres M. Lupus 18(5): 418-423 (2009), herein incorporated by reference).
[00297]      Naturally occurring enzyme variants may thus be less immunogenic when
administered to patients, since these isoforms occur in the human population. We reasoned
that the combination of the actin resistant properties of alleles similar to Al 14F with the
increased enzymatic activity of alleles like G105R would generate novel allelic variants of
human DNase l that might show improved clinical activity in vitro and in vivo. To our
                                                     65

knowledge, ours is the first report of this new mutant form of DNasel generated from a
combination of two naturally occurring variants G105R and Al 14F.
[00298]      Human DNase 1 was isolated as described previously from human pancreas RNA
(Ambion), by random primed cDNA and PCR using the following primer sets:
[00299]      5'hDNasel-age: GTT ACC GGT CTG AAG ATC GCA GCC TTC AAC ATC
CAG (SEQ ID NO:26)
[00300]      5'hDNasel-bx: GTT CTC GAG ATC TTT CAG CAT CAC CTC CAC TGG
ATA GTG (SEQ ID NO:27)
[00301]      Alternatively, the 3' DNase cassettes were amplified by PCR using the following
primer pair.
[00302]      3'hDNasel-RV: GTT GAT ATC CTG AAG ATC GCA GCC TTC AAC ATC
CAG (SEQ ID NO:28)
[00303]      3'hDNasel-stop: GTT TCT AGA TTA TCA CTT CAG CAT CAC CTC CAC
TGG ATA GTG (SEQ ID NO:29)
[00304]      PCR reactions were performed using 50 pmol each primer, 2 ul cDNA, in a total
volume of 50 ul using Platinum PCR Supermix as previously described. The amplification
profile was 94C 30 sec; 55C 30 sec; 68C 90 see for 35 cycles.
[00305]      Once the wild type gene was amplified by PCR, the fragments were subjected to
gel electrophoresis and 850 bp fragments purified by QlAquick column purification.
Fragments were cloned into pCR2. 1, transformed by TOPO cloning according to
manufacturer's instructions as described for the other constructs. Once sequence was
verified, PCR primers were used to generate subfragments containing naturally occurring
alleles for DNase 1 that have been reported to improve specific activity and improve
resistance to the inhibitory activity of actin. These subfragments contained overlapping
sequence, permitting amplification of complete DNasel subclones containing the desired
allelic variations. COS 7 cells were transiently transfected in 60 mm dishes using Polyfect
(Qiagen, Valencia, CA) transfection reagent. Plasmid DNA was prepared using the Qiagen
QlAprep miniprep kits according to manufacturer's instructions. Plasmids were eluted in 50
ul EB buffer. DNA concentration was measured using the Nanodrop and an aliquot
equivalent to 2.5 ug plasmid DNA used for each transfection reaction. Each DNaseIg (SEQ
ID NOS.: 118, 119, 120, 121, 122 or 123) or RNase-Ig-DNase (SEQ ID NOS.: 115, 116, 117)
expression cassette was inserted into the mammalian expression vector pDG, a derivative of
pcDNA3.1. Transfected cells were incubated for 72 hours at 37 0 C, 5% CO2 prior to harvest
                                                    66

of culture supernatants for further analysis. Culture supernatants were harvested, residual
cells centrifuged from the solution, and the liquid transferred to new tubes.
[00306]      COS-7 cells were transiently transfected with plasmids containing human DNase l
wild type (SEQ ID NO:118) or naturally occurring DNase 1 mutant alleles (G 1 05R and/or
Al 14F) (SEQ ID NO: 115, 116, or 117) fused to the wild type human IgGI Fc domain. This
hinge-CH2-CH3 cassette contains a single C->S mutation in the hinge region to eliminate the
first cysteine in this domain since it is unpaired due to absence of its pairing partner present
in the light chain of the antibody. In addition, more complex multi-nuclease fusion proteins
were also expressed from COS cell transient transfections. Western blot analysis was
performed on supernatants from transient transfectants. The molecules shown in Figure 20
contain human DNasel fused to the human IgGI wild type Fc domain (SEQ ID NO:154, 155,
156, or 159) or include human RNasel (wild type) fused to the SCC hinge-CH2-CH3 Fc
domain of human IgG 1, followed by a novel linker containing an N-linked glycosylation site
to protect the linker domain from protease cleavage, and the wild type (SEQ ID NO: 153) or
mutant allele (SEQ ID NO: 151 or 152) forms of human DNasel at the carboxy terminus of
the molecule. COS supernatants were harvested after 72 hours and .5-1.0 ml samples
(depending on the experiment) were immunoprecipitated overnight at 40 C with 100 ul protein
A-agarose beads. Protein A beads were centrifuged and washed twice in PBS prior to
resuspending in SDS-PAGE loading buffer, for NuPAGE gels-reducing or nonreducing
LDS sample buffer. Samples were heated according to manufacturer's instructions, protein
A beads centrifuged to pellet, and sample buffer loaded onto 5-12% NuPAGE gradient gels.
Samples were electrophoresed at 150 volts for 1.5-2 hours, and gels blotted to nitrocellulose
membranes at 30 mAmp for 1 hour. Western blots were blocked in TBS/5% non-fat milk
overnight. Blots were incubated with 1:2500 HRP (horseradish peroxidase) conjugated goat
anti-human IgG (Fc specific, Jackson Immunoresearch) or goat anti-mouse IgG for 1.5 hours
at room temperature, washed in PBS/0.5% Tween20 five or more times, and blots developed
using ECL reagent.
         Example 22. Screening COS supernatants for nuclease enzyme activity.
[00307]      Figure 21 shows the results of RNase activity assays (SRED) analysis on
harvested COS supernatants expressing hDNAselIg and hRNasel-Ig-hDNasel fusion
proteins by SRED.
[00308]      COS supernatants from transient transfections of the hDNaseIg single or
multispecific nucleases were assayed for nuclease activity as follows. A 2% agarose gel was
                                                     67

prepared with distilled water. Poly-C (Sigma) was dissolved in distilled water at 3 mg/ml. the
gel plate was prepared as follows: 1.5 ml reaction buffer (0.2M Tris-HCl pH7.0, 40mM
EDTA and 0.1 mg/ml Ethidium bromide), 1 ml Poly-C and 0.5 ml water were place in the
tube and maintained at 50C for 5 min. 3 ml of the agarose (kept at 50C) was added to the
tube. The mixture was immediately poured onto glass plate. Sampling wells were punched in
the gel. Approximately 2 ul of each sample was loaded and the gel was incubated at 37C for
4 hours in the moist chamber. Then the gel was incubated in a buffer (20 mM sodium acetate
pH5.2, 20mg/ml Ethidium bromide) on ice for 30 min. Gels were photographed on a UV
transilluminator using a Kodak digital camera DC290 system equipped with ethidium
bromide filters and analyzd using Kodak Molecular Imaging software.
[00309]     Figure 22 shows a composite figure displaying results of DNase nuclease activity
assays performed on COS supernatants from transfected cells. Culture supernatants were
harvested 72 hours after transfecting the following clones of DNasel wild type and mutant
Ig fusion proteins.: (1) 090210-8=hDNAsel-WT-hIgG1 WT (SEQ ID NO:154); (2) 090210
9=hDNasel-G105R;A1 14F-hIgG1 WT (SEQ ID NO: 159); (3) 091210-8=hRNasel-WT
hIgG 1-WT-DNase 1-G 105R;A 114F (SEQ ID NO:15 1), and (4) 091210-14=hRNase-WT
hIgG1-WT-DNasel-A1 14F (SEQ ID NO: 152).
[00310]     The pH of the supernatants was adjusted to .0 with bicarbonate buffer to facilitate
binding of expressed -Ig fusion proteins to protein A agarose beads. Panel A. of Figure 23
shows gel electrophoresis analysis of plasmid DNA digestion : Protein A agarose slurry (50
ul per sample) was washed in PBS, and incubated overnight at 4 0C with 100 ul culture
supernatant to immunoprecipitate -Ig fusion proteins. Immunoprecipitates were washed 4-5
times in 750 ul PBS, centrifuging at approximately 3500 rpm followed by aspiration of PBS.
Final protein A precipitates were resuspended in 50 ul reaction buffer containing 20 mM Tris
ph7.5. 2 mM CaCl2 and 2 mM MgCl2 containing 1.5 ug plasmid DNA (pDG expression
vector). Reactions were incubated for 30 minutes at 37 0 C, heated at 65 0 C for 5 min, and the
DNA present in reactions analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis on 1.5% TBE-agarose gels.
[00311]     Panel B shows the results of a nuclease activity assay performed on the same
culture supernatants using the DNase Alert Kit (IDT/Ambion). Reaction tubes containing
lyophilized DNase Alert Substrate (50 pmoles) were resuspended with 5 ul nuclease free
ddH20 supplied with the kit, 5 ul I OX DNase alert buffer, and 40 ul protein A slurry
immunoprecipitated as follows: For these immunoprecipitations, 50 ul protein A agarose
beads were incubated overnight with 50 ul culture supernatant. Samples were then washed 5
                                                   68

times with 0.75 ml PBS. Final protein A precipitates were resuspended in 80 ul nuclease free
ddH20, and 40 ul of the slurry (one half the precipitate) was transferred to the reaction tubes.
Negative controls with mock transfected IP and ddH20 were also set up. A positive control
was also set up containing DNasel provided with the kit (2 units). Reactions were incubated
1 hour at 37 0 C, and exposed to short wave length UV transillumination to visualize
fluorescence. Relative amounts of DNA digestion are indicated by degree of fluorescence.
        Example 22: Examination of mac-2 positive cells in DTg mice.
[00312]     Early lupus mortality is usually due to nephritis or infection resulting from
immunosuppression to treat nephritis. Therefore, an extremely important outcome for any
new therapy is improvement in nephritis. While human studies are limited to quantitation of
proteinuria and creatinine, in mice one can get an accurate assessment of inflammation and
damage to the kidneys by histology and immunocytochemistry. We report that TLR7.1 x
RNase double transgenic (DTg) mice showed lower anti-RNA antibodies, less B cell
activation, fewer immune deposits and less PAS positive staining glomeruli. We have further
compared macrophage infiltration of the kidneys using the anti-Mac-2 (galectin3) antibody
(Iyoda et al. Nephrol Dial Transplant 22: 3451, 2007). Frozen sections from kidneys
obtained from single or double Tg were examined for numbers of Mac-2+ macrophages as
well as glomerular size as described (Iyoda et al). Twenty randomly selected glomeruli (from
the outer to inner side of the kidney) were counted for positive cells. There are many fewer
mac-2 positive staining cells in the glomeruli of DTg as compared to single Tg mice (data not
shown). The results of counting 20 glomeruli per mouse in a pilot study of n=4-5 in each
group, revealed mean +/- SE of 3.8+/- 1.1 and 1.4+/- 0.2 for single versus DTg respectively,
p=0.05. In addition, we quantified glomerular tuft size and observed a significant reduction
in glomerular tuft size in the DTg mice (179.4+/- 41 versus 128+/- 16.8 um2 in single versus
DTg respectively, p =0.037).
        Example 23: Km of purified murine RNaseA-Ig fusion protein
[00313]     To further define the functional characteristics of the bivalent RNase-Ig fusion
protein (SEQ ID NO: 150), we performed determinations of the Michaelis constant, Km. As
shown in Fig. 23, the enzyme has a high affinity with a provisional Km of 280 nM (as a
comparision, RNase A has a Km of 34 nM using polyC as substrate (delCardayre et al, Prot
Eng 8:261, 1995)). Fig. 23 shows enzyme kinetics that were assayed using the Rnase Alert
Substrate (Ambion/IDT) and fluorescence was quantified with a Spectramax M2 microplate
Reader. Data was analyzed using Softmax Pro software (Molecular Devices). Reaction rates
                                                    69

at different substrate concentrations were measured and the data shown as a Lineweaver
Burk plot. The apparent Kin, corrected for volume is 280 nM.
         Example 24. Analysis of 564Igi Tg mice for anti-RNA antibodies.
[00314]     564 Igi Tg mice: Dr. Imanishi-Kara inserted the rearranged VDJ genes from the
H564 hybridoma into the endogenous Igh and Igk loci to create the 5641gi mouse on a B6
background. Sera from these mice stained the cytoplasm and nucleoli of fixed cells indicating
a predominant anti-RNA specificity. Consistent with this finding and of special relevance to
this patent application, antibody production was inhibited when these mice were made TRL7
deficient indicating that the stimulus for antibody production is indeed RNA. This mouse
strain develops late onset glomerulonephritis. We analyzed the expression of anti-RNA
antibodies in mice transgenic for H564 and also double transgenic mice coexpressing 5641g
and RNase transgenes. Figure 24 compares the levels of anti-RNA antibodies in mouse sera
at successive intervals as these transgenic mice aged.
[00315]     See Gavalchin, J., R.A. Seder, and S.K. Datta. 1987. The NZB X SWR model of
lupus nephritis. I. Cross-reactive idiotypes of monoclonal anti-DNA antibodies in relation to
antigenic specificity, charge, and allotype. Identification of interconnected idiotype families
inherited from the normal SWR and the autoimmune NZB parents. J. Immunol. 138:128-137;
and Berland, R., L. Fernandez, E. Kari, J.H. Han, I. Lomakin, S. Akira, H.H. Wortis, J.F.
Kearney, A.A. Ucci, and T. Imanishi-Kari. 2006. Toll-like receptor 7-dependent loss of B
cell tolerance in pathogenic autoantibody knockin mice. Immunity 25:429-440.
         Example 25: In vitro assessment of hybrid nuclease molecule biological activity.
[00316]     One or more hybrid nuclease molecules are purified, e.g., by affinity or ion
exchange chromatography as previously described in the examples above. In some instances
the hybrid nuclease molecule is a polypeptide. In some instances, the hybrid nuclease
molecule includes one or more sequences from Table 2. In some instances the molecule is
SEQ ID NO:161, 162, or 163. In some instances the molecule includes SEQ ID NO:145 and
SEQ ID NO:149. In some instances the molecule is SEQ ID NO:151, 152, 153, 154, 155,
156,157,158,159,160,161,162,163,166,167,169,170,171,173,175,177,179,181,
187, 189, 191, 193, 195, 197, 199, 201, 203, 205, or 207. The hybrid nuclease molecule can
be any of those disclosed herein and any that can be constructed from the sequences disclosed
herein (see Table 2), e.g., by taking a nuclease domain and linking it to an Fc domain; or,
e.g., taking a nuclease domain and linking it to an Fc domain with a linker domain. Various
linker domains (e.g., those described herein) can be used to link the Fc domains and/or
                                                    70

nuclease domains. For example, linker domains 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40
or more amino acids in length can be used. Molecules are assayed for the specific nuclease
activity in vitro using qualitative assays to verify that they possess the desired nuclease
function.   Specific activities are generally then determined by fluorescence based kinetic
assays utilizing substrates such as the RNase or DNase Alert Kit reagents, and a fluorescence
plate reader set to take readings as a function of time. In addition, protein solutions are
generally checked for endotoxin contamination using a commercially available kits, such as
the Pyrotell Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL) kit, 0.06 EU/ml detection limit from Cape
Cod ,Inc. (E. Palmouth, MA). Molecules are then assayed using a variety of in vitro assays
for biological activity.
[00317]     One series of in vitro assays will measure the effect of the molecules on cytokine
production by human PBMC in response to various stimuli, in the presence or absence of the
molecules in the cultures. Normal or patient human PBMC (approximately 1xOe6 cells) are
cultured for 24, 48, or 96 hours depending on the assay. PBMC are cultured in the presence
of stimuli such as TLR ligands, costimulatory antibodies, immune complexes, and normal or
autoimmune sera. The effects of the molecules on cytokine production is measured using
commercially available reagents, such as the antibody pair kits from Biolegend (San Diego,
CA) for IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-4, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha. Culture supernatants from in vitro
cultures are harvested at 24, 48 hours or later time points to determine the effects of the
molcules on cytokine production. IFN-alpha production is measured using, e.g., anti-human
IFN-alpha antibodies and standard curve reagents available from PBL interferon source
(Piscataway, NJ). A similar set of assays is performed using human lymphocyte
subpopulations (isolated monocytes, B cells, pDCs, T cells, etc.); purified using, e.g.,
commercially available magnetic bead based isolation kits available from Miltenyi Biotech
(Auburn, CA).
[00318]     In addition, the effect of the molecules on expression of lymphocyte activation
receptors such as CD5, CD23, CD69, CD80, CD86, and CD25 is assessed at various time
points after stimulation. PBMC or isolated cell subpopulations are subjected to multi-color
flow cytometry to determine how these molecules affect the expression of different receptors
associated with immune cell activation.
[00319]     Another set of assays will measure the effects of these molecules on the
proliferation of different lymphocyte subpopulations in vitro. These assays will utilize, e.g.,
                                                     71

CFDA-SE staining (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) of human PBMCs prior to stimulation. CFSE
at 5mM is diluted 1:3000 in PBS/0.5% BSA with 10e7-10e8 PBMCS or purified cell subsets
and labeling reactions incubated for 3-4 minutes at 37C prior to washing several times in
RPMI/10% FBS to remove remaining CFSE. CFSE labeled cells are then incubated in co
culture reactions with various stimuli (TLR ligands, costimulatory antibodies, etc.) and the
molecules for 4 days prior to analysis of cell proliferation by flow cytometry using dye
conjugated cell subpopulation specific antibodies.
[00320]     The effect of these molecules on in vitro maturation of monocytes into DCs and
macrophages is also assessed using both normal and patient PBMC samples.
[00321]     The effectiveness of a hybrid nuclease molecule is demonstrated by comparing the
results of an assay from cells treated with a hybrid nuclease molecule disclosed herein to the
results of the assay from cells treated with control formulations. After treatment, the levels of
the various markers (e.g., cytokines, cell-surface receptors, proliferation) described above are
generally improved in an effective molecule-treated group relative to the marker levels
existing prior to the treatment, or relative to the levels measured in a control group.
        Example 26: Administration of a hybrid nuclease molecule to a mammal in need
        thereof.
[00322]     Mammals (e.g., mice, rats, rodents, humans, guinea pigs) are used in the study.
Mammals are administered (e.g., intravenously) one or more hybrid nuclease molecules
comprising one or more sequences from Table 2 or a control. In some instances the molecule
is SEQ ID NO:161, 162, or 163. In some instances the molecule includes SEQ ID NO:145
and SEQ ID NO:149. In some instances the molecule is SEQ ID NO:151, 152, 153, 154,
155,156,157,158,159,160,161,162,163,166,167,169,170,171,173,175,177,179,
181, 187, 189, 191, 193, 195, 197, 199, 201, 203, 205, or 207. The hybrid nuclease molecule
can be any of those disclosed herein and any that can be constructed from the sequences
disclosed herein (see Table 2), e.g., by taking a nuclease domain and linking it to an Fc
domain; or, e.g., taking a nuclease domain and linking it to an Fc domain with a linker
domain. Various linker domains (e.g., those described herein) can be used to link the Fc
domains and/or nuclease domains. For example, linker domains 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,
36, 37, 38, 39, 40 or more amino acids in length can be used. In some instances the hybrid
nuclease molecule is formulated a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some instances the
                                                      72

molecule is formulated as described in the pharmaceutical compositions section above. The
hybrid nuclease molecule targets RNase and/or DNase.
[00323]      Multiple rounds of doses are used where deemed useful. Effects on IFN-alpha
levels, IFN-alpha response gene levels, autoantibody titers, kidney function and pathology,
and/or circulating immune complex levels are monitored in the mammals. Similar studies are
performed with different treatment protocols and administration routes (e.g., intramuscular
administration, etc.). The effectiveness of a hybrid nuclease molecule is demonstrated by
comparing the IFN-alpha levels, IFN-alpha response gene levels, autoantibody titers, kidney
function and pathology, and/or circulating immune complex levels in mammals treated with a
hybrid nuclease molecule disclosed herein to mammals treated with control formulations.
[00324]      In an example, a human subject in need of treatment is selected or identified. The
subject can be in need of, e.g., reducing a cause or symptom of SLE. The identification of
the subject can occur in a clinical setting, or elsewhere, e.g., in the subject's home through
the subject's own use of a self-testing kit.
[00325]      At time zero, a suitable first dose of a hybrid nuclease molecule is administered to
the subject. The hybrid nuclease molecule is formulated as described herein. After a period
of time following the first dose, e.g., 7 days, 14 days, and 21 days, the subject's condition is
evaluated, e.g., by measuring IFN-alpha levels, IFN-alpha response gene levels, autoantibody
titers, kidney function and pathology, and/or circulating immune complex levels. Other
relevant criteria can also be measured. The number and strength of doses are adjusted
according to the subject's needs.
[00326]      After treatment, the subject's IFN-alpha levels, IFN-alpha response gene levels,
autoantibody titers, kidney function and pathology, and/or circulating immune complex
levels are lowered and/or improved relative to the levels existing prior to the treatment, or
relative to the levels measured in a similarly afflicted but untreated/control subject.
[00327]      In another example, a rodent subject in need of treatment is selected or identified.
The identification of the subject can occur in a laboratory setting or elsewhere.
[00328]      At time zero, a suitable first dose of a hybrid nuclease molecule is administered to
the subject. The hybrid nuclease molecule is formulated as described herein. After a period
of time following the first dose, e.g., 7 days, 14 days, and 21 days, the subject's condition is
evaluated, e.g., by measuring IFN-alpha levels, IFN-alpha response gene levels, autoantibody
titers, kidney function and pathology, and/or circulating immune complex levels. Other
                                                      73

relevant criteria can also be measured. The number and strength of doses are adjusted
according to the subject's needs.
[00329]      After treatment, the subject's IFN-alpha levels, IFN-alpha response gene levels,
autoantibody titers, kidney function and pathology, and/or circulating immune complex
levels are lowered and/or improved relative to the levels existing prior to the treatment, or
relative to the levels measured in a similarly afflicted but untreated/control subject.
[00330]      While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a
preferred embodiment and various alternate embodiments, it will be understood by persons
skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and details can be made therein
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
[00331]      All references, issued patents and patent applications cited within the body of the
instant specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety, for all purposes.
                                                     74

TABLES
                              Table 1
                    Primer Listing for RNase and DNase -Ig Fusion
                    Gene Constructs
 SEQ ID Name        Sequence
 NO:
                    human primers:
 30     mahIgGlCH2M tgtccaccgtgtccagcacctgaactcctgggtggatcgtcagtcttcc
 31     huIgG1-H1   agatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgt
 32     hIgGl-5scc  gaagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgt
 33     hIgGlSSSH   gttagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatct
 34     mahIgGlS    tctagattatcatttacccggagacagagagaggctcttctgcgtgtag
                    tg
 35     P331S       aaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcctccatcgagaaaacaatctcc
 36     P331AS      gttttctcgatggaggctgggagggctttgttggagacc
 37     5'hrnase    AAG CTT GCC ACC ATG GCT CTG GAG AAG TCT CTT GTC
                    CGG CTC C
 38     3'hrnasebx  ctcgagatctgtagagtcctccacagaagcatcaaagtgg
 39     5'hrnaseage accggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc
 40     3'hRNaseRV  gatatcccttccctgggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccag
 41     3'hRNase
        stop        gtttctagattattaggtagagtcctccacagaagcatcaaagtg
 42     hdnaselL3-  GGT AAG CTT GCC ACC ATG TCA CGG GAG CTG GCC CCA
        5NL         CTG CTG CTT
 43     hdnaselL3-  CTC GAG ATC TGA GGA GCG TTT GCT CTT TGT TTT CTT
        3bx         CCT TAG
 44     hDNaselL3
        5age        accggtatgaggatctgctccttcaacgtcaggtcctttgg
 45     5'hDNasel
        age         GTT ACC GGT CTG AAG ATC GCA GCC TTC AAC ATC CAG
 46     5'hDNasel-  GTT CTC GAG ATC TTT CAG CAT CAC CTC CAC TGG ATA
        bx          GTG
 47     3'hDNasel
        RV          GTT GAT ATC CTG AAG ATC GCA GCC TTC AAC ATC CAG
 48     3'hDNasel-  GTT TCT AGA TTA TCA CTT CAG CAT CAC CTC CAC TGG
        stop        ATA GTG
 49     hDNasel     GAT GGC TGC GAG CCC TGC AGG AAC GAC ACC TTC AAC
        s105-114    CGA GAG CCA TTC ATT GTC AGG TTC
 50     hDNasel-    GAA CCT GAC AAT GAA TGG CTC TCG GTT GAA GGT GTC
        as114-105   GTT CCT GCA GGG CTC GCA GCC ATC
 51     hDNasel-    GGA GAA GAA CCT GAC AAT GAA TGG CTC TCG GTT GAA
        as114       GGT
 52     hDNasel-    ACC TTC AAC CGA GAG CCA TTC ATT GTC AGG TTC TTC
        s114        TCC
 53     hTrexl-     accggtatgggccctggagctcgcagacagggcag
        5'age
 54     hTrexl-3'bx ctcgagatctttggtcctagcagaggctgtgacc
 55     hTrexl -5'  accggtctcgagatgggccctggagctcgcagacagg
        AX
 56     hTrexl-     ctcgagtttggtcctagcagaggctgtgacc
        3'xho#2
                    Murine Primers:
 57     mTrexl-     accggtatgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtcaca
        5'age
                                    75

58 mTrexl-3'bx ctcgagatctgttgttccagtggtagccggagtgccgtacatg
59 mdnaselL3-  GTT AAG CTT GCC ACC ATG TCC CTG CAC CCA GCT TCC
   5NL         CCA CGC CTG
60 mdnaselL3-  CTC GAG ATC TGA GGA GCG ATT GCC TTT TTT TCT CTT
   3bx         TTT GAG AG
61 mribl-NL    gTT AAg CTT gCC ACC ATg ggT CTg gAg AAg TCC CTC
               ATT CTg
62 mrib3NH2    ggC TCg AgC ACA gTA gCA TCA AAg tGG ACT ggT ACg
               TAg g
63 muIgG2aCH2  cctccatgcaaatgcccagcacctaacctcttgggtggatcatccgtct
               tcatcttcc
64 mIgG2a-5    agatctcgagcccagaggtcccacaatcaagccctctcctccatgcaaa
               tgcc
65 mIgG2a-5scc gaagatctcgagcccagaggtcccacaatcaagccctctcctcca
66 muIgG2aSSSH atcaagccctctcctccatctaaatccccagcacctaac
67 mIgG2aKP5   agtggcaaggagttcaaatgctcggtcaagaagaaagacctcccagcgt
               ccatcgag
68 mIgG2aKP3   ggttctctcgatggacgctgggaggtctttgttgttgaccgagcatttg
               aactcc
69 mIgG2a3S    gtttctagattatcatttacccggagtccgagagaagctcttagtcgt
               Other Primers for different tail mutations and
               for multispecific fusion genes:
70 hIgGl-3ns-  gctagctccgtcgactttacccggagacagagagagg
   ns
71 K322S       gactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgctcggtctccaacaaagccc
               tc
72 K322AS      gagggctttgttggagaccgagcacttgtaagacttgccattcagccag
               tc
73 hIgG1N297S  ccgcgggaggagcagtacagcagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtc
74 hIgG1N297S3 gacgctgaccacacggtacgtgctgctgtactgctcctcccgcgg
75 mIgG2aNS    gatatctctagatttacccggagtccgagagaagctcttagtcgt
76 mIgG2a3ns-  gatatctccggagtcgactttacccggagtccgagagaagctcttag
   sal
77 mIgG2N297S5 cacaaacccatagagaggattacagcagtactctccgggtggtc
78 mIgG2N297S3 gaccacccggagagtactgctgtaatcctctctatgggtttgag
79
80 g4s4clnk3   GAT ATC ACC GGT AGA ACC ACC TCC ACC ACT CCC ACC
               TCC TCC AGT GCC TCC
81 g4s4clnk5   GTC GAC TCC GGA GGA GGT GGC TCA GGT GGT GGA GGC
               AGT GGA GGA GGT GG
82 Nlnkgly5    aaagtcgacggagctagcagccccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtg
83 Nlnkgly3    cccatgatatcctgcacgctggggctgctc
84 hdnaselage  ACC  GGT ATG AGG ATC TGC TCC TTC AAC GTC AGG TCC
               TTT  GG
85 hdnaselL3-  AGA  TCT TTA TCA GGA GCG TTT GCT CTT TGT TTT CTT
   3S          CCT  TAG
86 mdnaselL3-  TCT  AGA TTA TCA GGA GCG ATT GCC TTT TTT TCT CTT
   3S          TTT  GAG AG
87 mdnaselL3-  ACC  GGT CTA AGG CTC TGC TCC TTC AAT GTG AGG TCC
   age         TTT  GGA
88 mrib-L5'    gAT  ACC ACC ggT Agg gAA TCT gCA gCA CAg AAg TTT
               CAg
89 mrib5X      AAA  TCT AgA CCT CAA CCA ggT Agg gAA TCT gCA gCA
               CAg  AAg TTT CAg
90 mrib3X      TCT  AgA CTA TCA CAC AgT AgC ATC AAA gTg gAC Tgg
               TAC  gTA
                                76

                                 77
91        hRNaseGSSD-  agactgccgcctgacaaacgactccaggtaccc
          S
92        hRNAseGSSD-  gggtacctggagtcgtttgtcaggcggcagtct
          AS
93                     GGC TCA GGT  GGT GGA GGA TCT GGA GGA GGT GGC TCA
          g4s5-5-1     GGT GGT GGA  GGA TCT G
94                     GTT AGA TCT  CTC CGG AGG AGG TGG CTC AGG TGG TGG
          g4s5-2s      AGG ATC TGG  A
95                     CTC GAG ACT  CCC ACC TCC TCC AGA TCC TCC ACC ACC
          g4s5-aaxho   TGA GCC ACC  T
96                     AAA GAT CTC  TCC GGA GGA GGT GGC TCA GGT GGT GGA
          g4s4-5'      GGA TCT GGA  GGA GG
97                     CTC GAG ACC  GGT AGA ACC ACC TCC ACC ACT CCC ACC
          g4s4-3'      TCC TCC AGA  TCC TC
98        g4s5-5       GTT AGA TCT CTC CGG AGG AGG TGG CTC A
99        g4s5-3       ACC GGT CTC GAG ACT CCC ACC TCC TCC AGA TC
                                 TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5' -3')
  NO:
  100  g4s4lnk        agatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtg
                      ggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgag
       ("(G4s)4")
  101  G4S5-1         agatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtg
                      gctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtaccggtctcgag
        ("(G4S)5")
  102  G4S5-2         agatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtg
                      gctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtctcgag
        ("(G4S) 5")
  103  3'hRNaseG88D   gtcgacggagctagcagccccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgcagga
                      tatcccttccctgggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagcggcagc
                      atatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgtaaccaa
                      atgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtgaacac
                      ctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttccaggaaa
                      aggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaactccagc
                      atgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacgactccaggtaccccaactg
                      tgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcctgtgaag
                      ggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggactctacc
                      taataatctaga
  104  hDNasel-3'-    gatatcctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttggggagaccaa
       G105R;A114F    gatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctgagccgct
                      atgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgactgccgtg
                      gggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacacctatcacta
                      cgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgctacctgt
                      tcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactactacgat
                      gatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagccattcat
                      tgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgccattgttc
                      ccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgctctctat
                      gacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttggaggacgtcatgtt
                      gatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctcccagtggt
                      catccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatccccgac
                      agcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacaggatcgt
                      ggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcggctcttc
                      cctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcccaagcc
                      atcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaagtgataatctaga
  105  hDNasel-3'-    gatatcctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttggggagaccaa
                      gatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctgagccgct

                             78
                             TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
       WT          atgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgactgccgtg
                   gggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacacctatcacta
                   cgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgctacctgt
                   tcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactactacgat
                   gatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagccagccat
                   tgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgccattgttc
                   ccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgctctctat
                   gacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttggaggacgtcatgtt
                   gatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctcccagtggt
                   catccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatccccgac
                   agcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacaggatcgt
                   ggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcggctcttc
                   cctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcccaagcc
                   atcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaaatgataatctaga
  106  hDNasel-    gatatcctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttggggagaccaa
       3'A114F     gatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctgagccgct
                   atgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgactgccgtg
                   gggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacacctatcacta
                   cgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgctacctgt
                   tcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactactacgat
                   gatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagccattcat
                   tgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgccattgttc
                   ccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgctctctat
                   gacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttagaggacgtcatgtt
                   gatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctcccagtggt
                   catccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatccccgac
                   agcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacaggatcgt
                   ggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcggctcttc
                   cctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcccaagcc
                   atcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaagtgataatctaga
  107  hDNasel-5'- accggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttggggagaccaa
       G105R;A114F gatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctgagccgct
                   atgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgactgccgtg
                   gggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacacctatcacta
                   cgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgctacctgt
                   tcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactactacgat
                   gatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagccattcat
                   tgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgccattgttc
                   ccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgctctctat
                   gacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttggaggacgtcatgtt
                   gatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctcccagtggt
                   catccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatccccgac
                   agcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacaggatcgt
                   ggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcggctcttc
                   cctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcccaagcc
                   atcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaaagatctcgag
  108  hDNasel-5'- accggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttggggagaccaa
       WT          gatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctgagccgct
                   atgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgactgccgtg
                   gggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacacctatcacta
                   cgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgctacctgt
                   tcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactactacgat
                   gatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagccagccat
                   tgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgccattgttc
                   ccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgctctctat
                   gacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttggaggacgtcatgtt
                   gatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctcccagtggt

                              79
                              TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    catccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatccccgac
                    agcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacaggatcgt
                    ggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcggctcttc
                    cctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcccaagcc
                    atcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaaagatctcgag
  109  hDNasel-5'-  accggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttggggagaccaa
       A114F        gatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctgagccgct
                    atgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgactgccgtg
                    gggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacacctatcacta
                    cgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgctacctgt
                    tcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactactacgat
                    gatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagccattcat
                    tgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgccattgttc
                    ccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgctctctat
                    gacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttagaggacgtcatgtt
                    gatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctcccagtggt
                    catccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatccccgac
                    agcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacaggatcgt
                    ggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcggctcttc
                    cctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcccaagcc
                    atcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaaagatctcgag
  110  hIgG1  (SCC) agatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcc
                    cagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaa
                    cccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggt
                    ggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtgg
                    acggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtac
                    aacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactg
                    gctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccag
                    cccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaacca
                    caggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggt
                    cagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtgg
                    agtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctccc
                    gtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtgga
                    caagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatg
                    aggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggt
                    aaatgataatctaga
  111  hDNasel+VK3L gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       p            actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
                    agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
                    gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
                    cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
                    caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
                    tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                    ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacacct
                    tcaaccgagagccagccattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                    agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                    cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                    gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                    gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                    ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                    gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                    gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                    tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                    tgaagtga
  112  hDNaselL3    atgtcacgggagctggccccactgctgcttctcctcctctccatccacag
                    cgccctggccatgaggatctgctccttcaacgtcaggtcctttggggaaa
                    gcaagcaggaagacaagaatgccatggatgtcattgtgaaggtcatcaaa

                               80
                               TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    cgctgtgacatcatactcgtgatggaaatcaaggacagcaacaacaggat
                    ctgccccatactgatggagaagctgaacagaaattcaaggagaggcataa
                    catacaactatgtgattagctctcggcttggaagaaacacatataaagaa
                    caatatgcctttctctacaaggaaaagctggtgtctgtgaagaggagtta
                    tcactaccatgactatcaggatggagacgcagatgtgttttccagggagc
                    cctttgtggtctggttccaatctccccacactgctgtcaaagacttcgtg
                    attatccccctgcacaccaccccagagacatccgttaaggagatcgatga
                    gttggttgaggtctacacggacgtgaaacaccgctggaaggcggagaatt
                    tcattttcatgggtgacttcaatgccggctgcagctacgtccccaagaag
                    gcctggaagaacatccgcttgaggactgaccccaggtttgtttggctgat
                    cggggaccaagaggacaccacggtgaagaagagcaccaactgtgcatatg
                    acaggattgtgcttagaggacaagaaatcgtcagttctgttgttcccaag
                    tcaaacagtgtttttgacttccagaaagcttacaagctgactgaagagga
                    ggccctggatgtcagcgaccactttccagttgaatttaaactacagtctt
                    caagggccttcaccaacagcaaaaaatctgtcactctaaggaagaaaaca
                    aagagcaaacgctcctag
  113  human        atgggtctggagaagtctcttgtccggctccttctgcttgtcctgatact
       pancreatic   gctggtgctgggctgggtccagccttccctgggcaaggaatcccgggcca
       ribonuclease agaaattccagcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagc
                    tccacctactgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcg
                    gtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccaga
                    atgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgc
                    tacaagagcaactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacgg
                    ctccaggtaccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacaca
                    tcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgct
                    actgtgtag
  114  huVK3LP+mrib gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       1+mIgG2A-C-  actctggctcccagataccaccggtagggaatctgcagcacagaagtttc
       2S           agcggcagcacatggatccagatggttcctccatcaacagccccacctac
                    tgcaaccaaatgatgaaacgccgggatatgacaaatgggtcatgcaagcc
                    cgtgaacaccttcgtgcatgagcccttggcagatgtccaggccgtctgct
                    cccaggaaaatgtcacctgcaagaacaggaagagcaactgctacaagagc
                    agctctgccctgcacatcactgactgccacctgaagggcaactccaagta
                    tcccaactgtgactacaagaccactcaataccagaagcacatcattgtgg
                    cctgtgaagggaacccctacgtaccagtccactttgatgctactgtgctc
                    gagcccagaggtctcacaatcaagccctctcctccatgcaaatgcccagc
                    acctaacctcttgggtggatcatccgtcttcatcttccctccaaagatca
                    aggatgtactcatgatctccctgagccccatggtcacatgtgtggtggtg
                    gatgtgagcgaggatgacccagacgtccagatcagctggtttgtgaacaa
                    cgtggaagtacacacagctcagacacaaacccatagagaggattacaaca
                    gtactctccgggtggtcagtgccctccccatccagcaccaggactggatg
                    agtggcaaggagttcaaatgctcggtcaacaacaaagacctcccagcgtc
                    catcgagagaaccatctcaaaacccagagggccagtaagagctccacagg
                    tatatgtcttgcctccaccagcagaagagatgactaagaaagagttcagt
                    ctgacctgcatgatcacaggcttcttacctgccgaaattgctgtggactg
                    gaccagcaatgggcgtacagagcaaaactacaagaacaccgcaacagtcc
                    tggactctgatggttcttacttcatgtacagcaagctcagagtacaaaag
                    agcacttgggaaagaggaagtcttttcgcctgctcagtggtccacgaggg
                    tctgcacaatcaccttacgactaagagcttctctcggactccgggtaaat
                    gataatctagaa
  115  huVK3LP-     aagcttgccgccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hRNaseWT-    ctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagc
       hIgG1 (SCC)- ggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgt
       NLG-hDNAsel- aaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagt
       105-114      gaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttcc
                    aggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaac
                    tccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccc

                              81
                              TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    caactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcct
                    gtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggac
                    tctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccacc
                    gtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccc
                    caaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgc
                    gtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggta
                    cgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagc
                    agtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccag
                    gactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccct
                    cccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgag
                    aaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaac
                    caggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgc
                    cgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgc
                    ctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcacc
                    gtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgat
                    gcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctc
                    cgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcagccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagc
                    gtgcaggatatcctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttgggga
                    gaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctga
                    gccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgact
                    gccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacaccta
                    tcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgct
                    acctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactac
                    tacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagcc
                    agccattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgcca
                    ttgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgct
                    ctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggctcggaggacgt
                    catgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctccc
                    agtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatc
                    cccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacag
                    gatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcgg
                    ctcttccctttaacttccagnctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcc
                    caagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaagtgataatc
                    taga
  116  huVK3LP-     aagcttgccgccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hRNaseWT-    ctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagc
       hIgG1 (SCC)- ggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgt
       NLG-hDNasel- aaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagt
                    gaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttcc
                    aggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaac
                    tccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccc
                    caactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcct
                    gtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggac
                    tctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccacc
                    gtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccc
                    caaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgc
                    gtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggta
                    cgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagc
                    agtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccag
                    gactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccct
                    cccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgag
                    aaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaac
                    caggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgc
                    cgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgc
                    ctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcacc
                    gtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgat
                    gcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctc

                               82
                                TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION   SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                     cgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcagccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagc
                     gtgcaggatatcctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttgggga
                     gaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctga
                     gccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgact
                     gccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacaccta
                     tcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgct
                     acctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactac
                     tacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagcc
                     attcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgcca
                     ttgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgct
                     ctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttagaggacgt
                     catgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctccc
                     agtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatc
                     cccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacag
                     gatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcgg
                     ctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcc
                     caagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaagtgataatc
                     taga
  117  huVK3LP-      aagcttgccgccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hRNaseWT-     ctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagc
       hIgGi (SCC) - ggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgt
       NLG-hDNasel-  aaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagt
           WT        gaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttcc
           WT        aggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaac
                     tccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccc
                     caactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcct
                     gtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggac
                     tctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccacc
                     gtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccc
                     caaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgc
                     gtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggta
                     cgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagc
                     agtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccag
                     gactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccct
                     cccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgag
                     aaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaac
                     caggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgc
                     cgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgc
                     ctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcacc
                     gtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgat
                     gcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctc
                     cgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcagccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagc
                     gtgcaggatatcctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatccagacatttgggga
                     gaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctga
                     gccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgact
                     gccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacaccta
                     tcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagctataaggagcgct
                     acctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactac
                     tacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagcc
                     agccattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgcca
                     ttgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgct
                     ctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggggcttggaggacgt
                     catgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctccc
                     agtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatc
                     cccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacag
                     gatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcgg
                     ctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcc

                                 83
                                  TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                      caagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgctgaaatgataatc
                      taga
  118  hVK3LP-        gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel (WT) - actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       hIgGi (SCC)    agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
                      gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
                      cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
                      caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
                      tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                      ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacacct
                      tcaaccgagagccagccattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                      agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                      cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                      gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                      gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                      ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                      gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                      gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                      tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                      tgaaagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccg
                      tgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttcccccc
                      aaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcg
                      tggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtac
                      gtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagca
                      gtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccagg
                      actggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctc
                      ccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgaga
                      accacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaacc
                      aggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgcc
                      gtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcc
                      tcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccg
                      tggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatg
                      catgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctcc
                      gggtaaatgataatctaga
  119  hVK3LP-        gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-       actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       A114F-hIgGl    agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
           (scc)gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
           (SCC)cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
                      caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
                      tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                      ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcgggaacgacacct
                      tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                      agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                      cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                      gcttagaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                      gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                      ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                      gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                      gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                      tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                      tgaaagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccg
                      tgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttcccccc
                      aaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcg
                      tggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtac
                      gtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagca
                      gtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccagg

                              84
                              TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    actggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctc
                    ccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgaga
                    accacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaacc
                    aggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgcc
                    gtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcc
                    tcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccg
                    tggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatg
                    catgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctcc
                    gggtaaatgataatctaga
  120  hVK3LP-      gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-     actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G105R;A114F- agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
       (G4S)4-hIgG1 gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
                    cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
       (SCC)        caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       "(G4S)4"     tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                    ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
                    tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                    agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                    cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                    gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                    gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                    ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                    gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                    gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                    tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                    tgaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagga
                    ggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaatcttctga
                    caaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggac
                    cgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcc
                    cggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccc
                    tgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgcca
                    agacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagc
                    gtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtg
                    caaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctcca
                    aagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcc
                    cgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaagg
                    cttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccgg
                    agaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttc
                    ttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaa
                    cgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgc
                    agaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  121  hVK3LP-      gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-     actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G105R;A114F- agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
       (G4S)5-1-    gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
                    cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
       hIgG1 (SCC)  caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       "(G4S)5"     tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                    ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
                    tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                    agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                    cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                    gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                    gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                    ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                    gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt

                              85
                              TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                    tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                    tgaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagga
                    ggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtaccggtctcga
                    gcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctg
                    aactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggac
                    accctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgt
                    gagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtgg
                    aggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacg
                    taccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatgg
                    caaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcg
                    agaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtac
                    accctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgac
                    ctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggaga
                    gcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggac
                    tccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcag
                    gtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgc
                    acaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgataa
                    tctaga
  122  hVK3LP-      gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNAsel-     actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G105R;A114F- agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
       (G4S)5-2-    gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
                    cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
       hIgG1 (SCC)  caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       ("(G4S)5"    tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                    ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
                    tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                    agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                    cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                    gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                    gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                    ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                    gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                    gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                    tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                    tgaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagga
                    ggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtctcgagcccaa
                    atcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcc
                    tggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctc
                    atgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagcca
                    cgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgc
                    ataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgt
                    gtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaagga
                    gtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaa
                    ccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctg
                    cccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcct
                    ggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatg
                    ggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgac
                    ggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggca
                    gcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaacc
                    actacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  123  hVK3LP-      gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-     actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G105R;A114F- agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
       hIgG1 (SCC)  gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
                    cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg

                             86
                             TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                   caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
                   tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                   ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
                   tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                   agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                   cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                   gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                   gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                   ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                   gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                   gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                   tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                   tgaaagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccg
                   tgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttcccccc
                   aaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcg
                   tggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtac
                   gtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagca
                   gtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccagg
                   actggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctc
                   ccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgaga
                   accacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaacc
                   aggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgcc
                   gtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcc
                   tcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccg
                   tggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatg
                   catgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctcc
                   gggtaaatgataatctaga
  124  hVK3LP-     gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hRNase(MT)- actctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc
       hIgG1 (SCC) agcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctac
                   tgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaacc
                   agtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtt
                   tccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagc
                   aactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacgactccaggta
                   ccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtgg
                   cctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggag
                   gactctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtcc
                   accgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttcc
                   ccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcaca
                   tgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactg
                   gtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggagg
                   agcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcac
                   caggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagc
                   cctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagcccc
                   gagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaag
                   aaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacat
                   cgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagacca
                   cgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctc
                   accgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgt
                   gatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgt
                   ctccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  125  hVK3LP-     gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hRNase(WT)- actctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc
       (G4S)4lnk-  agcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctac
       hIgG1 (SCC) tgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaacc
                   agtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtt
                   tccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagc

                             87
                             TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
        ("(G4S)4"  aactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggta
                   ccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtgg
                   cctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggag
                   gactctacagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctgg
                   aggaggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaatctt
                   ctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctgggg
                   ggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgat
                   ctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaag
                   accctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataat
                   gccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggt
                   cagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtaca
                   agtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatc
                   tccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgccccc
                   atcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtca
                   aaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcag
                   ccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctc
                   cttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcagg
                   ggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactac
                   acgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  126  hVK3LP-     gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hRNase(WT)- actctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc
        (G4S)5-2-  agcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctac
       lnk-hIgG1   tgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaacc
        in-c)      agtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtt
        (SCC)      tccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagc
        ("(G4S)5"  aactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggta
                   ccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtgg
                   cctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggag
                   gactctacagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctgg
                   aggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtctcgagc
                   ccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaa
                   ctcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacac
                   cctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtga
                   gccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggag
                   gtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgta
                   ccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggca
                   aggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgag
                   aaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacac
                   cctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacct
                   gcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagc
                   aatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactc
                   cgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggt
                   ggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcac
                   aaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgataatc
                   taga
  127  hVK3LP-     gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hRNase(WT)- actctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc
       hIgG1 (SCC) agcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctac
                   tgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaacc
                   agtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtt
                   tccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagc
                   aactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggta
                   ccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtgg
                   cctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggag
                   gactctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtcc
                   accgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttcc
                   ccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcaca

                               88
                               TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION   SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                     tgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactg
                     gtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggagg
                     agcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcac
                     caggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagc
                     cctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagcccc
                     gagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaag
                     aaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacat
                     cgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagacca
                     cgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctc
                     accgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgt
                     gatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgt
                     ctccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  128  murine Trex1  atgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtcacatgcagaccctcatcttctt
        (FL)         agacctggaagccactggcctgccttcgtctcggcccgaagtcacagagc
       transcript    tgtgcctgctggctgtccacagacgtgctctggagaacacttccatttct
       variant 1     cagggacatccacctccagtgcccagaccgccccgtgtggtggacaagct
                     ctctctgtgcattgctccagggaaagcctgtagccctggggccagtgaga
                     tcacaggtctgagcaaagctgagctggaagtacaggggcgtcaacgcttc
                     gatgacaacctggccatcctgctccgagccttcctgcagcgccagccaca
                     gccttgctgccttgtggcacacaacggtgaccgctatgactttcctctgc
                     tccagacagagcttgctaggctgagcactcccagtcccctagatggtacc
                     ttctgtgtggacagcatcgctgccctaaaggccttggaacaagctagcag
                     cccctcagggaatggttcgaggaaaagctacagcctgggcagcatctaca
                     cccgcctgtactggcaagcaccgacagactcacatactgctgaaggtgat
                     gttctaaccctgctcagcatctgtcagtggaagccacaggccctactgca
                     gtgggtggacgaacatgcccggccctttagcaccgtcaagcccatgtacg
                     gcactccggctaccactggaacaaccaacctaaggccacatgctgccaca
                     gctactacacccctggccacagccaatggaagtcccagcaatggcaggag
                     caggcgacctaagagtcctcctccagagaaggtcccagaagccccatcac
                     aggaggggctgctggccccactgagcctgctgaccctcctgaccttggca
                     atagccactctgtatggactcttcctggcctcacctgggcagtaa
  129  mTREXlminec   atgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtcacatgcagaccctcatcttctt
                     agacctggaagccactggcctgccttcgtctcggcccgaagtcacagagc
                     tgtgcctgctggctgtccacagacgtgctctggagaacacttccatttct
                     cagggacatccacctccagtgcccagaccgccccgtgtggtggacaagct
                     ctctctgtgcattgctccagggaaagcctgtagccctggggccagtgaga
                     tcacaggtctgagcaaagctgagctggaagtacaggggcgtcaacgcttc
                     gatgacaacctggccatcctgctccgagccttcctgcagcgccagccaca
                     gccttgctgccttgtggcacacaacggtgaccgctatgactttcctctgc
                     tccagacagagcttgctaggctgagcactcccagtcccctagatggtacc
                     ttctgtgtggacagcatcgctgccctaaaggccttggaacaagctagcag
                     cccctcagggaatggttcgaggaaaagctacagcctgggcagcatctaca
                     cccgcctgtactggcaagcaccgacagactcacatactgctgaaggtgat
                     gttctaaccctgctcagcatctgtcagtggaagccacaggccctactgca
                     gtgggtggacgaacatgcccggccctttagcaccgtcaagcccatgtacg
                     gcactccggctaccactggaacaacagatctcgag
  130  murine        aagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       Trex1-        ctggctcccagataccaccggtatgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtc
        (G4S)4_      acatgcagaccctcatcttcttagacctggaagccactggcctgccttcg
       mIgG2a-c      tctcggcccgaagtcacagagctgtgcctgctggctgtccacagacgtgc
        mgG4a- 4")   tctggagaacacttccatttctcagggacatccacctccagtgcccagac
        (" (G4S) 4") cgccccgtgtggtggacaagctctctctgtgcattgctccagggaaagcc
                     tgtagccctggggccagtgagatcacaggtctgagcaaagctgagctgga
                     agtacaggggcgtcaacgcttcgatgacaacctggccatcctgctccgag
                     ccttcctgcagcgccagccacagccttgctgccttgtggcacacaacggt
                     gaccgctatgactttcctctgctccagacagagcttgctaggctgagcac
                     tcccagtcccctagatggtaccttctgtgtggacagcatcgctgccctaa

                              89
                              TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                   aggccttggaacaagctagcagcccctcagggaatggttcgaggaaaagc
                   tacagcctgggcagcatctacacccgcctgtactggcaagcaccgacaga
                   ctcacatactgctgaaggtgatgttctaaccctgctcagcatctgtcagt
                   ggaagccacaggccctactgcagtgggtggacgaacatgcccggcccttt
                   agcaccgtcaagcccatgtacggcactccggctaccactggaacaacaga
                   tctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtggct
                   cagggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccagaggtcccaca
                   atcaagccctctcctccatgcaaatgcccagcacctaacctcttgggtgg
                   atcatccgtcttcatcttccctccaaagatcaaggatgtactcatgatct
                   ccctgagccccatggtcacatgtgtggtggtggatgtgagcgaggatgac
                   ccagacgtccagatcagctggtttgtgaacaacgtggaagtacacacagc
                   tcagacacaaacccatagagaggattacaacagtactctccgggtggtca
                   gtgccctccccatccagcaccaggactggatgagtggcaaggagttcaaa
                   tgctcggtcaacaacaaagacctcccagcgtccatcgagagaaccatctc
                   aaaacccagagggccagtaagagctccacaggtatatgtcttgcctccac
                   cagcagaagagatgactaagaaagagttcagtctgacctgcatgatcaca
                   ggcttcttacctgccgaaattgctgtggactggaccagcaatgggcgtac
                   agagcaaaactacaagaacaccgcaacagtcctggactctgatggttctt
                   acttcatgtacagcaagctcagagtacaaaagagcacttgggaaagagga
                   agtcttttcgcctgctcagtggtccacgagggtctgcacaatcaccttac
                   gactaagagcttctctcggactccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  131  murine      aagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       Trex1-      ctggctcccagataccaccggtatgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtc
        (G4S)5_    acatgcagaccctcatcttcttagacctggaagccactggcctgccttcg
       mIgG2a-c    tctcggcccgaagtcacagagctgtgcctgctggctgtccacagacgtgc
        m"gG4Sa-   tctggagaacacttccatttctcagggacatccacctccagtgcccagac
        (" (G4S)5" cgccccgtgtggtggacaagctctctctgtgcattgctccagggaaagcc
                   tgtagccctggggccagtgagatcacaggtctgagcaaagctgagctgga
                   agtacaggggcgtcaacgcttcgatgacaacctggccatcctgctccgag
                   ccttcctgcagcgccagccacagccttgctgccttgtggcacacaacggt
                   gaccgctatgactttcctctgctccagacagagcttgctaggctgagcac
                   tcccagtcccctagatggtaccttctgtgtggacagcatcgctgccctaa
                   aggccttggaacaagctagcagcccctcagggaatggttcgaggaaaagc
                   tacagcctgggcagcatctacacccgcctgtactggcaagcaccgacaga
                   ctcacatactgctgaaggtgatgttctaaccctgctcagcatctgtcagt
                   ggaagccacaggccctactgcagtgggtggacgaacatgcccggcccttt
                   agcaccgtcaagcccatgtacggcactccggctaccactggaacaacaga
                   tctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtggct
                   caggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtctcgagcccagaggtccc
                   acaatcaagccctctcctccatgcaaatgcccagcacctaacctcttggg
                   tggatcatccgtcttcatcttccctccaaagatcaaggatgtactcatga
                   tctccctgagccccatggtcacatgtgtggtggtggatgtgagcgaggat
                   gacccagacgtccagatcagctggtttgtgaacaacgtggaagtacacac
                   agctcagacacaaacccatagagaggattacaacagtactctccgggtgg
                   tcagtgccctccccatccagcaccaggactggatgagtggcaaggagttc
                   aaatgctcggtcaacaacaaagacctcccagcgtccatcgagagaaccat
                   ctcaaaacccagagggccagtaagagctccacaggtatatgtcttgcctc
                   caccagcagaagagatgactaagaaagagttcagtctgacctgcatgatc
                   acaggcttcttacctgccgaaattgctgtggactggaccagcaatgggcg
                   tacagagcaaaactacaagaacaccgcaacagtcctggactctgatggtt
                   cttacttcatgtacagcaagctcagagtacaaaagagcacttgggaaaga
                   ggaagtcttttcgcctgctcagtggtccacgagggtctgcacaatcacct
                   tacgactaagagcttctctcggactccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  132  NLG linker  gtcgacggcgcggccgccagccccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgca
                   ggatatc

                              90
                              TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
  133  murine       aagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       Trex1-Trex1- ctggctcccagataccaccggtatgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtc
        (G4S)5_     acatgcagaccctcatcttcttagacctggaagccactggcctgccttcg
       mIgG2a-c     tctcggcccgaagtcacagagctgtgcctgctggctgtccacagacgtgc
        m"gG4Sa-    tctggagaacacttccatttctcagggacatccacctccagtgcccagac
        (" (G4S)5"  cgccccgtgtggtggacaagctctctctgtgcattgctccagggaaagcc
                    tgtagccctggggccagtgagatcacaggtctgagcaaagctgagctgga
                    agtacaggggcgtcaacgcttcgatgacaacctggccatcctgctccgag
                    ccttcctgcagcgccagccacagccttgctgccttgtggcacacaacggt
                    gaccgctatgactttcctctgctccagacagagcttgctaggctgagcac
                    tcccagtcccctagatggtaccttctgtgtggacagcatcgctgccctaa
                    aggccttggaacaagctagcagcccctcagggaatggttcgaggaaaagc
                    tacagcctgggcagcatctacacccgcctgtactggcaagcaccgacaga
                    ctcacatactgctgaaggtgatgttctaaccctgctcagcatctgtcagt
                    ggaagccacaggccctactgcagtgggtggacgaacatgcccggcccttt
                    agcaccgtcaagcccatgtacggcactccggctaccactggaacaacaga
                    tctcatgggctcacagaccctgccccatggtcacatgcagaccctcatct
                    tcttagacctggaagccactggcctgccttcgtctcggcccgaagtcaca
                    gagctgtgcctgctggctgtccacagacgtgctctggagaacacttccat
                    ttctcagggacatccacctccagtgcccagaccgccccgtgtggtggaca
                    agctctctctgtgcattgctccagggaaagcctgtagccctggggccagt
                    gagatcacaggtctgagcaaagctgagctggaagtacaggggcgtcaacg
                    cttcgatgacaacctggccatcctgctccgagccttcctgcagcgccagc
                    cacagccttgctgccttgtggcacacaacggtgaccgctatgactttcct
                    ctgctccagacagagcttgctaggctgagcactcccagtcccctagatgg
                    taccttctgtgtggacagcatcgctgccctaaaggccttggaacaagcta
                    gcagcccctcagggaatggttcgaggaaaagctacagcctgggcagcatc
                    tacacccgcctgtactggcaagcaccgacagactcacatactgctgaagg
                    tgatgttctaaccctgctcagcatctgtcagtggaagccacaggccctac
                    tgcagtgggtggacgaacatgcccggccctttagcaccgtcaagcccatg
                    tacggcactccggctaccactggaacaacagatctctccggaggaggtgg
                    ctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctg
                    gaggaggtgggagtctcgagcccagaggtcccacaatcaagccctctcct
                    ccatgcaaatgcccagcacctaacctcttgggtggatcatccgtcttcat
                    cttccctccaaagatcaaggatgtactcatgatctccctgagccccatgg
                    tcacatgtgtggtggtggatgtgagcgaggatgacccagacgtccagatc
                    agctggtttgtgaacaacgtggaagtacacacagctcagacacaaaccca
                    tagagaggattacaacagtactctccgggtggtcagtgccctccccatcc
                    agcaccaggactggatgagtggcaaggagttcaaatgctcggtcaacaac
                    aaagacctcccagcgtccatcgagagaaccatctcaaaacccagagggcc
                    agtaagagctccacaggtatatgtcttgcctccaccagcagaagagatga
                    ctaagaaagagttcagtctgacctgcatgatcacaggcttcttacctgcc
                    gaaattgctgtggactggaccagcaatgggcgtacagagcaaaactacaa
                    gaacaccgcaacagtcctggactctgatggttcttacttcatgtacagca
                    agctcagagtacaaaagagcacttgggaaagaggaagtcttttcgcctgc
                    tcagtggtccacgagggtctgcacaatcaccttacgactaagagcttctc
                    tcggactccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  134  huVK3LP-     aagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       huTREX1-     ctggctcccagataccaccggtatgggccctggagctcgcagacagggca
       72aa-(g4s)4_ ggattgtgcagggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgcccaccccctacccca
       hIgG1 (SCC)  ctccctccccttcggatcttaacactgggcactcacacacccaccccatg
        h"gGiS)4    ctcctctccaggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaaccatgggctcgcagg
        (" (G4S)4"  ccctgcccccggggcccatgcagaccctcatctttttcgacatggaggcc
                    actggcttgcccttctcccagcccaaggtcacggagctgtgcctgctggc
                    tgtccacagatgtgccctggagagcccccccacctctcaggggccacctc
                    ccacagttcctccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaagctctccctgtgtgtg
                    gctccggggaaggcctgcagccctgcagccagcgagatcacaggtctgag

                              91
                              TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    cacagctgtgctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgttttgatgacaacctgg
                    ccaacctgctcctagccttcctgcggcgccagccacagccctggtgcctg
                    gtggcacacaatggtgaccgctacgacttccccctgctccaagcagagct
                    ggctatgctgggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtgccttctgtgtggata
                    gcatcactgcgctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagcagcccctcagaacac
                    ggcccaaggaagagctacagcctaggcagcatctacactcgcctgtatgg
                    gcagtcccctccagactcgcacacggctgagggtgatgtcctggccctgc
                    tcagcatctgtcagtggagaccacaggccctgctgcggtgggtggatgct
                    cacgccaggcctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgtatggggtcacagcctc
                    tgctaggaccaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggat
                    ctggaggaggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaa
                    tcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcct
                    ggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctca
                    tgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccac
                    gaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgca
                    taatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtg
                    tggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggag
                    tacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaac
                    catctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgc
                    ccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctg
                    gtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgg
                    gcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacg
                    gctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcag
                    caggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaacca
                    ctacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  135  huVK3LP-     aagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       huTREX1-     ctggctcccagataccaccggtatgggccctggagctcgcagacagggca
       72aa-(g4s)5_ ggattgtgcagggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgcccaccccctacccca
       hIgG1 (SCC)  ctccctccccttcggatcttaacactgggcactcacacacccaccccatg
                    ctcctctccaggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaaccatgggctcgcagg
       (" (G4S)5"   ccctgcccccggggcccatgcagaccctcatctttttcgacatggaggcc
                    actggcttgcccttctcccagcccaaggtcacggagctgtgcctgctggc
                    tgtccacagatgtgccctggagagcccccccacctctcaggggccacctc
                    ccacagttcctccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaagctctccctgtgtgtg
                    gctccggggaaggcctgcagccctgcagccagcgagatcacaggtctgag
                    cacagctgtgctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgttttgatgacaacctgg
                    ccaacctgctcctagccttcctgcggcgccagccacagccctggtgcctg
                    gtggcacacaatggtgaccgctacgacttccccctgctccaagcagagct
                    ggctatgctgggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtgccttctgtgtggata
                    gcatcactgcgctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagcagcccctcagaacac
                    ggcccaaggaagagctacagcctaggcagcatctacactcgcctgtatgg
                    gcagtcccctccagactcgcacacggctgagggtgatgtcctggccctgc
                    tcagcatctgtcagtggagaccacaggccctgctgcggtgggtggatgct
                    cacgccaggcctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgtatggggtcacagcctc
                    tgctaggaccaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggat
                    ctggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtctc
                    gagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacc
                    tgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaagg
                    acaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggac
                    gtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgt
                    ggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagca
                    cgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaat
                    ggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccat
                    cgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgt
                    acaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctg
                    acctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtggga
                    gagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctgg

                                   92
                                    TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION     SEQUENCE   (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                       actccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagc
                       aggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctct
                       gcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgat
                       aatctaga
  136  g4s4lnk         ggggsggggsggggsggggs
        (" (G4S) 4")
  137  G4S5-1          ggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs
        (" (G4S) 5")
  138  G4S5-2          ggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs
        (" (G4S) 5")
  139  hDNasel-3' -    lkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqilsrydialvqevrdshltavgk
       G1O5R;A114F     lldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykerylfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddg
                       cepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefaivplhaapgdavaeidalydv
                       yldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssirlwtsptfqwlipdsa
                       dttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsalpfnfqaayglsdqlaqais
                       dhypvevml k*
  140  hDNasel-3'    - lkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqilsrydialvqevrdshltavgk
       WT              1ldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykeryl fvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddg
                       cepcgndtfnrepaivrffsrftevrefaivplhaapgdavaeidalydv
                       yldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssirlwtsptfqwlipdsa
                       dttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsalpfnfqaayglsdqlaqais
                       dhypvevml k*
  141  hDNasel-        lkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqilsrydialvqevrdshltavgk
       3'A114F         lldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykerylfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddg
                       cepcgndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefaivplhaapgdavaeidalydv
                       yldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssirlwtsptfqwlipdsa
                       dttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsalpfnfqaayglsdqlaqais
                       dhypvevml k*
  142  hDNasel-5'    - lkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqilsrydialvqevrdshltavgk
       G1 05R          lldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykerylfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddg
                       cepcrndtfnrepaivrffsrftevrefaivplhaapgdavaeidalydv
                       yldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssirlwtsptfqwlipdsa
                       dttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsalpfnfqaayglsdqlaqais
                       dhypvevml k
  143  hDNasel-5'    - lkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqilsrydialvqevrdshltavgk
       WT              1ldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykeryl fvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddg
                       cepcgndtfnrepaivrffsrftevrefaivplhaapgdavaeidalydv
                       yldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssirlwtsptfqwlipdsa
                       dttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsalpfnfqaayglsdqlaqais
                       dhypvevml k
  144  hDNasel-5'    - lkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqilsrydialvqevrdshltavgk
       Al114F          lldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykerylfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddg
                       cepcgndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefaivplhaapgdavaeidalydv
                       yldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssirlwtsptfqwlipdsa
                       dttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsalpfnfqaayglsdqlaqais
                       dhypvevml k
  145  hIgGi    (SCC)  lepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvv
                       dvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwl
                       ngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvs
                       ltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdk
                       s rwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqks is 1spgk
  146  hRNase-G88D-    kesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvntfvhep
                       lvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmhitdcrltndsrypncayrts

                                    93
                                     TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE     (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
       3'            pkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedst*
  147  human         metpaqiifiiiiwipdttgikiaafniqtfgetkmsnativsyivqiis
       DNaselmVK3LP   rydiaivqevrdshitavgkiidninqdapdtyhyvvsepigrnsykery
                      1 fvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcgndtfnrepaivrffs rftevrefai
                     vpihaapgdavaeidaiydvyidvqekwgiedvmimgdfnagcsyvrpsq
                     WS si riwtsptfqwi ipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmi 1rgavvpdsa
                      lpfnfqaaygisdqiaqaisdhypvevmik*
  148  DNaselL3      msrelapillllsihsalamricsfnvrsfgeskqedknamdvivkvik
                      rcdiilvmeikdsnnricpilmeklnrnsrrgitynyvissrlgrntyke
                      qyaflykeklvsvkrsyhyhdyqdgdadvfs repfvvwfqsphtavkdfv
                       ipihttpetsvkeideivevytdvkhrwkaenfifmgdfnagcsyvpkk
                      awkni ri rtdprfvwi igdqedttvkkstncaydrivi rgqeivs svvpk
                      snsvfdfqkaykiteeeaidvsdhfpvefkiqssraftnskksvtirkkt
                      kskrs*
  149  human         Mglekslvrllllvillvlgwvqpslgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsss
       pancreatic     stycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgnc
       ribonuclease   yksnssmhitdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfda
                      sv* edst
  150  huVK3LPmmrib  metpaqllfllllwlpdttgresaaqkfqrqhmdpdgssinsptycnqmm
       lmmIgG2A-      krrdmtngsckpvntfvhepladvqavcsqenvtcknrksncyksssalh
       Cm2S           itdchlkgnskypncdykttqyqkhiivacegnpyvpvhfdatvleprgl
                      tikpsppckcpapnllggssvfifppkikdvlmislspmvtcvvvdvsed
                      dpdvqi swfvnnvevhtaqtqthredynstl rvvsalpiqhqdwmsgkef
                      kcsvnnkdlpasiertiskprgpvrapqvyvlpppaeemtkkefsltcmi
                      tgflpaeiavdwtsngrteqnykntatvldsdgsyfmysklrvqkstwer
                      gsifacsvvhegihnhittksfsrtpgk*
  151  huVK3LP-      metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNaseWT-      rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
       hIgGi (SCC) -  itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstle
       NLG-hDNasel - pkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdv
        (G105R;       shedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlng
       A114F)         keykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvslt
                      clvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksr
                     wqqgnvfscsvmhegihnhytqks isi spgkvdgas spvnvs spsvqdi 1
                      ki a afniqt fget kms nat ivs yivqi is rydi a vqevrds hit avg ki
                      ldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykeryl fvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgc
                      epcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefaivpihaapgdavaeidaiydvy
                      idvqekwgsedvmimgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssiriwtsptfqwiipdsad
                      ttatpthcaydrivvagmiirgavvpdsaipfnfqaaygisdqiaqaisd
                     hypvevmi k*
  152  huVK3LP-      metpaqiifiiiiwipdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNaseWT-      rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvhepivdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
       hIgGi (SCC) -  itdcritngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstie
       NLG-hDNasel - pkssdkthtcppcpapeiiggpsvfifppkpkdtimisrtpevtcvvvdv
            114F      shedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvitvihqdwing
            114F      keykckvsnkaipapiektiskakgqprepqvytippsrdeitknqvsit
                      civkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvidsdgsffiyskitvdksr
                     wqqgnvfscsvmhegihnhytqks is ispgkvdgas spvnvs spsvqdi i
                      ki a afniqt fget kms nat ivs yivqi is rydi aivqevrds hit avg ki
                      idninqdapdtyhyvvsepigrnsykeryi fvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgc
                      epcgndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefaivpihaapgdavaeidaiydvy
           I~        ildvqekwgiedvmimgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssiriwtsptfqwiipdsad

                                    94
                                     TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE     (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                      ttatpthcaydrivvagmiirgavvpdsaipfnfqaaygisdqiaqaisd
                      hypvevmi k*
  153  huVK3LP-       metpaqiifiiiiwipdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNaseWT-      rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvhepivdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
       hIgGi (SCC) -  itdcritngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstie
       NLG-hDNAsel -  pkssdkthtcppcpapeiiggpsvfifppkpkdtimisrtpevtcvvvdv
            WT        shedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvitvihqdwing
            WT        keykckvsnkaipapiektiskakgqprepqvytippsrdeitknqvsit
                      civkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvidsdgsffiyskitvdksr
                      wqqgnvfscsvmhegihnhytqks is 1spgkvdgas spvnvs spsvqdi 1
                      ki a afniqt fget kms nt ivs yivqi is rydi aivqevrds hit avg ki
                      idninqdapdtyhyvvsepigrnsykeryi fvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgc
                      epcgndtfnrepaivrffsrftevrefaivpihaapgdavaeidaiydvy
                      idvqekwgiedvmimgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssiriwtsptfqwiipdsad
                      ttatpthcaydrivvagmiirgavvpdsaipfnfqaaygisdqiaqaisd
                      hypvevmi k*
  154  hVK3LP-        metpaqiifiiiiwipdttgikiaafniqtfgetkmsnativsyivqiis
       hDNasel (WT) - rydiaivqevrdshitavgkiidninqdapdtyhyvvsepigrnsykery
       hIgGi (SCC)    ifvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcgndtfnrepaivrffsrftevrefai
                      vpihaapgdavaeidaiydvyidvqekwgiedvmimgdfnagcsyvrpsq
                      ws siriwtsptfqwi ipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmi irgavvpdsa
                      ipfnfqaaygisdqiaqaisdhypvevmikiepkssdkthtcppcpapei
                      iggpsvfi fppkpkdtimi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvev
                      hnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvitvihqdwingkeykckvsnkaipapiek
                      tiskakgqprepqvytippsrdeitknqvsitcivkgfypsdiavewesn
                      gqpennykttppvidsdgsffiyskitvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmheaihn
                      hytqksisispgk*
  155  hVK3LP-        metpaqiifiiiiwipdttgikiaafniqtfgetkmsnativsyivqiis
       hDNasel-       rydiaivqevrdshitavgkiidninqdapdtyhyvvsepigrnsykery
       A114F-hIgGl    ifvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcgndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
        (scc)         vpihaapgdavaeidaiydvyidvqekwgiedvmimgdfnagcsyvrpsq
                      ws siriwtsptfqwi ipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmi irgavvpdsa
                      ipfnfqaaygisdqiaqaisdhypvevmikiepkssdkthtcppcpapei
                      iggpsvfi fppkpkdtimi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvev
                      hnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvitvihqdwingkeykckvsnkaipapiek
                      tiskakgqprepqvytippsrdeitknqvsitcivkgfypsdiavewesn
                      gqpennykttppvidsdgsffiyskitvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmheaihn
                      hytqksisispgk*
  156  hVK3LP-        metpaqiifiiiiwipdttgikiaafniqtfgetkmsnativsyivqiis
       hDNasel-       rydiaivqevrdshitavgkiidninqdapdtyhyvvsepigrnsykery
       G1O5R;A114F-   ifvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi vpihaapgdavaeidaiydvyidvqekwgiedvmimgdfnagcsyvrpsq
        (scc)         wssiriwtsptfqwiipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmiirgavvpdsa
        U' (G4S) 4")  ipfnfqaaygisdqiaqaisdhypvevmikggggsggggsggggsggggs
                      iepks sdkthtcppcpapei iggpsvfi fppkpkdtimi srtpevtcvvv
                      dvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvitvihqdwi
                      ngkeykckvsnkaipapiektiskakgqprepqvytippsrdeitknqvs
                      itcivkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvidsdgsffiyskitvdk
                      srwqqgnvfscsvmheaihnhytqksisispgk*
  157  hVK3LP-        metpaqiifiiiiwipdttgikiaafniqtfgetkmsnativsyivqiis
       hDNaselGlO5R   rydiaivqevrdshitavgkiidninqdapdtyhyvvsepigrnsykery
       ;A114F(G4s) 5  ifvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai

                                      95
                                       TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION       SEQUENCE    (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
       -hIgGi (SCC)      vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
        (" (G4S) 5")     wssirlwtsptfqwlipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsa
                         lpfnfqaayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlkggggsggggsggggsggggs
                         ggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpev
                         tcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvI
                         hqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdelt
                         knqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflysk
                         ltvdks rwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqks is 1spgk*
  158  hVK3LP-           metpaqllfllllwlpdttglkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqils
       hDNasel-          rydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykery
       G1O5R;A114F-      lfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
        (G4S) 5-2-       vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
             h~gl(c)     w ssi rlwtsptfqwl ipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagml 1rgavvpdsa
             h~g~i(SCC)  lpfnfqaayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlkggggsggggsggggsggggs
        (" (G4S) s")     ggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpev
                         tcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvI
                         hqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdelt
                         knqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflysk
                         ltvdks rwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqks isi spgk*
  159  hVK3LP-           metpaqllfllllwlpdttglkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqils
       hDNasel-          rydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykery
       G1O5R;A114F- lfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
       hIgGi (SCC)       vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
                         ws si rwtsptfqwl ipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagml 1rgavvpdsa
                         lpfnfqaayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlklepkssdkthtcppcpapel
                         lggpsvf 1fppkpkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvev
                         hnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiek
                         tiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesn
                         gqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhn
                         hytqksisispgk*
  160  hVK3LP-           metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNasel           rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
        (MT) -hIgGi      itdcrltndsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstle
             (sc)pks         sdkthtcppcpapel lggpsvf 1fppkpkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdv
             (SCC)shedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlng
                         keykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvslt
                         clvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksr
                         wqqgnvfscsvmheaihnhytqksisispgk*
  161  hVK3Lp-           metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNasel           rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
        (WT) -           itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstgg
        (G4S) 41nk-      ggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppk
             h~gl(CC)    pkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqy
             h~g~i(SCC)  nstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprep
        (" (G4S) 4")     qvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttpp
                         vldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspg
  162  hVK3LP-           metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNase (WT) -     rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
        (G4S) 5-21nk-    itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstgg
       hIgGi (SCC)       ggsggggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvf
             ("(G4)5")   lfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkp
             ("      ~
                  (GS)   reeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakg
                         qprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpenny
                         kttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqksl
           I            Isispgk*

                                       96
                                        TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION        SEQUENCE    (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
  163  hVK3LP-            metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNase (WT) -      rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
       hIgGi (3CC)        itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstle
                          pks sdkthtcppcpapel lggpsvf 1fppkpkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdv
                          shedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlng
                          keykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvslt
                          clvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksr
                          wqqgnvfscsvmheaihnhytqksisispgk*
  164  murine Trexi mgsqtlphghmqtlifldleatglpssrpevtelcllavhrralentsis
        (FL) -            qghpppvprpprvvdklslciapgkacspgaseitglskaelevqgrqrf
       transcript         ddnlaillraflqrqpqpcclvahngdrydfpllqtelarlstpspldgt
       variant 1          fcvdsiaalkaleqasspsgngsrksyslgsiytrlywqaptdshtaegd
                          vltllsicqwkpqallqwvdeharpfstvkpmygtpattgttnlrphaat
                          attplatangspsngrsrrpkspppekvpeapsqegllaplslltlltla
                          iatlygiflaspgq*
  165  mouse              mgsqtlphghmqtlifldleatglpssrpevtelcllavhrralentsis
       Treximinec         qghpppvprpprvvdklslciapgkacspgaseitglskaelevqgrqrf
                          ddnlaillraflqrqpqpcclvahngdrydfpllqtelarlstpspldgt
                          fcvdsiaalkaleqasspsgngsrksyslgsiytrlywqaptdshtaegd
                          vltllsicqwkpqallqwvdeharpfstvkpmygtpattgttdle
  166  murine             metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmgsqtlphghmqtlifldleatglpssrpe
       Trexi-             vtelcllavhrralentsisqghpppvprpprvvdklslciapgkacspg
        (G4S) 4           aseitglskaelevqgrqrfddnlaillraflqrqpqpcclvahngdryd
            m~gG~a-c      fpllqtelarlstpspldgtfcvdsiaalkaleqasspsgngsrksyslg
        m"G4Sa-c          siytrywqaptdshtaegdvtlsicqwkpqalqwvdeharpfstvk
             ("   (4S)4") pmygtpattgttggggsggggsggggsggggsleprgptikpsppckcpa
                          pnllggssvfifppkikdvlmislspmvtcvvvdvseddpdvqiswfvnn
                          vevhtaqtqthredynstlrvvsalpiqhqdwmsgkefkcsvnnkdlpas
                          iertiskprgpvrapqvyvlpppaeemtkkefsltcmitgflpaeiavdw
                          tsngrteqnykntatvldsdgsyfmysklrvqkstwergslfacsvvheg
                          lhnhittksfsrtpgk*
  167  murine             metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmgsqtlphghmqtlifldleatglpssrpe
       Trexi-             vtelcllavhrralentsisqghpppvprpprvvdklslciapgkacspg
        (G4S)5-           aseitglskaelevqgrqrfddnlaillraflqrqpqpcclvahngdryd
            m~gG~a-c      fpllqtelarlstpspldgtfcvdsiaalkaleqasspsgngsrksyslg
        m"G4Sa-c          siytrywqaptdshtaegdvtlsicqwkpqalqwvdeharpfstvk
             ("      ~
                  (GS)    pmygtpattgttggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsleprgptikpspp
                          ckcpapnllggssvfifppkikdvlmislspmvtcvvvdvseddpdvqis
                          wfvnnvevhtaqtqthredynstlrvvsalpiqhqdwmsgkefkcsvnnk
                          dlpasiertiskprgpvrapqvyvlpppaeemtkkefsltcmitgflpae
                          iavdwtsngrteqnykntatvldsdgsyfmysklrvqkstwergslfacs
                          vvhegihnhittksfsrtpgk*
  168  NLGlnk             vdgasspvnvsspsvqdi
  169  Murine Trex-       metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmgsqtlphghmqtlifldleatglpssrpe
       Trexi-             vtelcllavhrralentsisqghpppvprpprvvdklslciapgkacspg
        (G4s)5-           aseitglskaelevqgrqrfddnlaillraflqrqpqpcclvahngdryd
            m~gG~a-c      fpllqtelarlstpspldgtfcvdsiaalkaleqasspsgngsrksyslg
        m"G4Sa-c          siytrywqaptdshtaegdvtlsicqwkpqalqwvdeharpfstvk
             ("      ~
                  (GS)    pmygtpattgttmgsqtlphghmqtlifldleatglpssrpevtelclla
                          vhrralentsisqghpppvprpprvvdklslciapgkacspgaseitgls
                          kaelevqgrqrfddnlaillraflqrqpqpcclvahngdrydfpllqtel
                          a ris tpspi dgt fcvds ia a 1kale qa ssp sgn gs rks ys g siyt r1yw
                          qaptdshtaegdvltllsicqwkpqallqwvdeharpfstvkpmygtpat
                          tgttggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs leprgpti kpsppckcpapnl
                          lggs svfi fppki kdvlmi sispmvtcvvvdvseddpdvqi swfvnnvev
                          htaqtqthredynstlrvvsalpiqhqdwmsgkefkcsvnnkdlpasier

                                     97
                                      TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION        SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                          tiskprgpvrapqvyvlpppaeemtkkefsltcmitgflpaeiavdwtsn
                          grteqnykntatvldsdgsyfmysklrvqkstwergslfacsvvheglhn
                          hittksfsrtpgk*
  170  huVK3LP-           metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmgpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplppI
       huTREXi-           rlltlgthtptpcsspgsaagtyptmgsqalppgpmqtllffdmeatglp
       72aa- (g4s) 4      fsqpkvtelcllavhrcalespptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgk
            h~gl(cc)      acspaaseitglstavlaahgrqcfddnlanhllaflrrqpqpwclvahn
        h"Gi SCC")        gdrydfplqaelamgtsadgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprk
             ("   (4S)4") syslgsiytrlygqsppdshtaegdvlallsicqwrpqallrwvdaharp
                          fgtirpmygvtasartkggggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcp
                          pcpapel lggpsvf 1fppkpkdtlml srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnw
                          yvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnka
                          lpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdi
                          avewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsv
                          mheaihnhytqksisispgk*
  171  huVK3LP-           metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmgpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplppl
       huTREXi-           rlltlgthtptpcsspgsaagtyptmgsqalppgpmqtllffdmeatglp
       72aa- (g4s) 5      fsqpkvtelcllavhrcalespptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgk
            h~gl(cc)      acspaaseitglstavlaahgrqcfddnlanhllaflrrqpqpwclvahn
        h"Gi SCC")        gdrydfplqaelamgtsadgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprk
             ("      ~
                  (GS)    syslgsiytrlygqsppdshtaegdvlallsicqwrpqallrwvdaharp
                          fgtirpmygvtasartkggggsggggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdk
                          thtcppcpapel lggpsvf 1fppkpkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpe
                          vkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykck
                          vsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgf
                          ypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnv
                          fscsvmheaihnhytqksisispgk*
  172  huVK3LP-           gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-           actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G1O5R;A114F- agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi     gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
             (SCC)NLG-    cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
                -LG-
             (SC)         caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       hRNasel-WT         tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
        (" (G4S) 4")      ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
                          tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                          agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                          cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                          gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                          gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                          ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                          gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                          gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                          tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                          tgaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagga
                          ggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaatcttctga
                          caaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggac
                          cgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcc
                          cggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccc
                          tgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgcca
                          agacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagc
                          gtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtg
                          caaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctcca
                          aagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcc
                          cgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaagg
                          cttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccgg
                          agaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttc

                               98
                               TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    ttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaa
                    cgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgc
                    agaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggagctagcagcccc
                    gtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgcaggatatcccttccctgggcaagga
                    atcccgggccaagaaattccagcggcagcatatggactcagacagttccc
                    ccagcagcagctccacctactgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatg
                    acacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggt
                    agatgtccagaatgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggc
                    agggcaactgctacaagagcaactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgc
                    ctgacaaacggctccaggtaccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaa
                    ggagagacacatcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtcc
                    actttgatgcttctgtggaggactctacctaataatctaga
  173  huVK3LP-     metpaqllfllllwlpdttglkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqils
       hDNasel-     rydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykery
       G105R;A114F- lfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
       (G4S)4-hIgG1 vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
                    wssirlwtsptfqwlipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsa
                    lpfnfqaayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlkggggsggggsggggsggggs
       hRNasel-WT   lepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvv
       ("(G4S)4")   dvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwl
                    ngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvs
                    ltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdk
                    srwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasspvnvsspsvqd
                    ikesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvntfvhe
                    plvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmhitdcrltngsrypncayrt
                    spkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedst*
  174  huVK3LP-     gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hRNAseG88D-  actctggctcccagataccaccggtccttccctgggcaaggaatcccggg
       hIgG1 (SCC)  ccaagaaattccagcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagc
       P238S;K322S; agctccacctactgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggg
                    gcggtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtcc
       P331S        agaatgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaac
                    tgctacaagagcaactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaa
                    cgactccaggtaccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagac
                    acatcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgat
                    gcttctgtggaggactctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaac
                    tcacacatgtccaccgtgtccagcacctgaactcctgggtggatcgtcag
                    tcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacactctcatgatctcccggacc
                    cctgaggtcacgtgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccaggaagaccccgaggt
                    ccagttcaactggtacgtggacggcatggaggtgcataatgccaagacaa
                    agccacgggaggagcagttcaacagcacgttccgtgtggtcagcgtcctc
                    accgtcgtgcaccaggactggctgaacggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggt
                    ctccaacaaagccctcccagcctccatcgagaaaacaatctccaaaacca
                    aagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggag
                    gagatgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttcta
                    tcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaaca
                    actacaacaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttctccctc
                    tacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtctt
                    ctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaaga
                    gcctctctctgtctccgggtaaatgataatctaga
  175  huVK3LP-     metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNAseG88D-  rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
       hIgG1 (SCC)  itdcrltndsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstle
       P238S;K322S; pkssdkthtcppcpapellggssvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdv
                    sqedpevqfnwyvdgmevhnaktkpreeqfnstfrvvsvltvvhqdwlng
       P331S        keykckvsnkalpasiektisktkgqprepqvytlppsreemtknqvslt
                    clvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennynttppvldsdgsfslyskltvdksr

                                    99
                                     TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION     SEQUENCE    (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                       wqqgnvfscsvmheaihnhytqksisispgk*
  176  huVK3LP-        gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-        actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G1O5R;A114F-    agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
        (G4S) 5-1-     gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
           h~gl (cc-   cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
            h~g~i(SCC) caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       NLG-hRNasel-    tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
       WT              ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
        (" (G4S) 5")   tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                       agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                       cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                       gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                       gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                       ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                       gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                       gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                       tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                       tgaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagga
                       ggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtaccggtctcga
                       gcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctg
                       aactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggac
                       accctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgt
                       gagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtgg
                       aggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacg
                       taccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatgg
                       caaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcg
                       agaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtac
                       accctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgac
                       ctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggaga
                       gcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggac
                       tccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcag
                       gtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgc
                       acaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgac
                       ggagctagcagccccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgcaggatatccc
                       ttccctgggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagcggcagcatatgg
                       actcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgtaaccaaatgatg
                       aggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgt
                       gcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtca
                       cctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaactccagcatgcac
                       atcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccccaactgtgcata
                       ccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcc
                       catatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggactctacctaataa
                       tctaga
  177  huVK3LP-        metpaqllfllllwlpdttglkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqils
       hDNasel-        rydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykery
       G1O5R;A114F-    lfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
        (G4S) 5-1-     vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
            h~g ~      W Ssc rlwtsptfqwl ipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagml 1rgavvpdsa
                       wsi
            h~g~i(SCC) lpfnfqaayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlkggggsggggsggggsggggs
       -NLG-           ggggs lepks sdkthtcppcpapel lggpsvf 1fppkpkdtlmi srtpev
       hRNasel-WT      tcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvI
        (" (G4S) 5")   hqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdelt
                       knqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflysk
                       ltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasspvnvss
                       psvqdi kes rakkf qrqhmdsds sps ss stycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvn
                       tfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmhitdcrltngsrypn

                                   100
                                    TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION     SEQUENCE   (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                       cayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedst*
  178  huVK3LP-        gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-        actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G1O5R;A114F-    agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
        (G4S) 5-2-     gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
           h~gl (cc-   cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
            h~g~i(SCC) caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       NLG-hRNasel-    tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
       WT              ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
        (" (G4S) 5")   tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                       agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                       cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                       gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                       gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                       ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                       gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                       gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                       tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                       tgaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagga
                       ggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtctcgagcccaa
                       atcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcc
                       tggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctc
                       atgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagcca
                       cgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgc
                       ataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgt
                       gtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaagga
                       gtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaa
                       ccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctg
                       cccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcct
                       ggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatg
                       ggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgac
                       ggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggca
                       gcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaacc
                       actacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggagct
                       agcagccccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgcaggatatcccttccct
                       gggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagcggcagcatatggactcag
                       acagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgc
                       cggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgtgcacga
                       gcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtcacctgca
                       agaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaactccagcatgcacatcaca
                       gactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccccaactgtgcataccggac
                       cagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcccatatg
                       tgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggactctacctaataatctaga
  179  huVK3LP-        metpaqllfllllwlpdttglkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqils
       hDNasel-        rydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykery
       G1O5R;A114F-    lfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
        (G4S) 5-2-     vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
       hIgGi (8CC) -   wssiriwtsptfqwiipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagniirgavvpdsa
       NLG-hRNasel -   ggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpev
       WT              tcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvI
        (" (G4S) 5")   hqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdelt
                       knqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflysk
                       ltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasspvnvss
                       psvqdi kes rakkf qrqhmdsds sps ss stycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvn
                       tfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmhitdcrltngsrypn
                       cayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedst

                              101
                               TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
  180  huVK3LP-     gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel      actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G105R;A114F- agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
       hIgG1 (SCC)  gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
                    cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
       -NLG-        caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       hRNassel-WT  tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
                    ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
                    tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                    agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                    cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                    gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                    gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                    ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                    gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                    gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                    tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                    tgaaagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccg
                    tgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttcccccc
                    aaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcg
                    tggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtac
                    gtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagca
                    gtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccagg
                    actggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctc
                    ccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgaga
                    accacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaacc
                    aggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgcc
                    gtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcc
                    tcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccg
                    tggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatg
                    catgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctcc
                    gggtaaagtcgacggagctagcagccccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcg
                    tgcaggatatcccttccctgggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccag
                    cggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactg
                    taaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccag
                    tgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttc
                    caggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaa
                    ctccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtacc
                    ccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcc
                    tgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggagga
                    ctctacctaataatctaga
  181  huVK3LP-     metpaqllfllllwlpdttglkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqils
       hDNasel      rydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykery
       G105R;A114F- lfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
       hIgG1 (SCC)  vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
                    wssirlwtsptfqwlipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsa
       -NLG-        lpfnfqaayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlklepkssdkthtcppcpapel
       hRNassel-WT  lggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvev
                    hnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiek
                    tiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesn
                    gqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhn
                    hytqkslslspgkvdgasspvnvsspsvqdikesrakkfqrqhmdsdssp
                    sssstycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngq
                    gncyksnssmhitdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvh
                    fdasvedst*
  182  huVK3LP-     gaccaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgc
       mDNaselL3-   tactctggctcccagataccaccggtctaaggctctgctccttcaatgtg

                                102
                                 TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
       mIgG2A-C       aggtcctttggagcgagcaagaaggaaaaccatgaagccatggatatcat
        (Mut)         tgtgaagatcatcaaacgctgtgaccttatactgttgatggaaatcaagg
                      acagcagcaacaacatctgtcccatgctgatggagaagctgaatggaaat
                      tcacgaagaagcacaacatacaactatgtgattagttctcgacttggaag
                      aaacacgtacaaagagcagtatgccttcgtctacaaggagaagctggtgt
                      ctgtgaagacaaaataccactaccatgactatcaggatggagacacagac
                      gtgttttccagggagccctttgtggtttggttccattccccctttactgc
                      tgtcaaggacttcgtgattgtccccttgcacacaactcccgagacctccg
                      ttaaagagatagatgagctggtcgatgtctacacggatgtgagaagccag
                      tggaagacagagaatttcatcttcatgggtgatttcaacgccggctgtag
                      ctatgtccccaagaaggcctggcagaacattcgtttgaggacggacccca
                      agtttgtttggctgattggggaccaagaggacactacggtcaagaagagt
                      accagctgtgcctatgacaggattgtgctttgtggacaagagatagtcaa
                      ctccgtggttccccgttccagtggcgtctttgactttcagaaagcttatg
                      acttgtctgaagaggaggccctggatgtcagtgatcactttccagttgag
                      tttaagctacagtcttcaagggccttcaccaacaacagaaaatctgtttc
                      tctcaaaaagagaaaaaaaggcaatcgctcctcagatctcgagcccagag
                      gtctcacaatcaagccctctcctccatgcaaatgcccagcacctaacctc
                      ttgggtggatcatccgtcttcatcttccctccaaagatcaaggatgtact
                      catgatctccctgagccccatggtcacatgtgtggtggtggatgtgagcg
                      aggatgacccagacgtccagatcagctggtttgtgaacaacgtggaagta
                      cacacagctcagacacaaacccatagagaggattacaacagtactctccg
                      ggtggtcagtgccctccccatccagcaccaggactggatgagtggcaagg
                      agttcaaatgctcggtcaacaacaaagacctcccagcgtccatcgagaga
                      accatctcaaaacccagagggccagtaagagctccacaggtatatgtctt
                      gcctccaccagcagaagagatgactaagaaagagttcagtctgacctgca
                      tgatcacaggcttcttacctgccgaaattgctgtggactggaccagcaat
                      gggcgtacagagcaaaactacaagaacaccgcaacagtcctggactctga
                      tggttcttacttcatgtacagcaagctcagagtacaaaagagcacttggg
                      aaagaggaagtcttttcgcctgctcagtggtccacgagggtctgcacaat
                      caccttacgactaagagcttctctcggactccgggtaaatgataatctag
                      aa
  183  huVK3LP-      metpaqllfllllwlpdttglrlcsfnvrsfgaskkenheamdiivkiik
       mDNaselL3-     rcdiimeikdssnnicpmlmeklngnsrrsttynyvissrlgrntyke
       mIgG2A-C       qyafvykeklvsvktkyhyhdyqdgdtdvfsrepfvvwfhspftavkdfv
            (Mut)ivplhttpetsvkeidelvdvytdvrsqwktenfifmgdfnagcsyvpkk
            (mut)awqnirlrtdpkfvwligdqedttvkkstscaydrivlcgqeivnsvvpr
                      ssgvfdfqkaydlseeealdvsdhfpvefklqssraftnnrksvslkkrk
                      kgnrssdleprgltikpsppckcpapnhlggssvfifppkikdvlmisls
                     pmvtcvvvdvseddpdvqi swfvnnvevhtaqtqthredynstl rvvsal
                     piqhqdwmsgkefkcsvnnkdlpasiertiskprgpvrapqvyvlpppae
                      emtkkefsltcmitgflpaeiavdwtsngrteqnykntatvldsdgsyfm
                      yskirvqkstwergsifacsvvhegihnhittksfsrtpgk*
  184  mDNaselL3-     gagaccagcttgccccatgtccctgcacccagcttccccacgcctggcct
       NL-            ccctgctgctcttcatccttgccctccatgacaccctggccctaaggctc
       mIgG2A-C(mut   tgctccttcaatgtgaggtcctttggagcgagcaagaaggaaaaccatga
                      agccatggatatcattgtgaagatcatcaaacgctgtgaccttatactgt
                      tgatggaaatcaaggacagcagcaacaacatctgtcccatgctgatggag
                      aagctgaatggaaattcacgaagaagcacaacatacaactatgtgattag
                      ttctcgacttggaagaaacacgtacaaagagcagtatgccttcgtctaca
                      aggagaagctggtgtctgtgaagacaaaataccactaccatgactatcag
                      gatggagacacagacgtgttttccagggagccctttgtggtttggttcca
                      ttccccctttactgctgtcaaggacttcgtgattgtccccttgcacacaa
                      ctcccgagacctccgttaaagagatagatgagctggtcgatgtctacacg
                      gatgtgagaagccagtggaagacagagaatttcatcttcatgggtgattt
                      caacgccggctgtagctatgtccccaagaaggcctggcagaacattcgtt
                      tgaggacggaccccaagtttgtttggctgattggggaccaagaggacact

                                103
                                 TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION   SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                     acggtcaagaagagtaccagctgtgcctatgacaggattgtgctttgtgg
                     acaagagatagtcaactccgtggttccccgttccagtggcgtctttgact
                     ttcagaaagcttatgacttgtctgangaggangccctggatgtcagtgat
                     cactttccagttgagtttaagctacagtcttcaagggccttcaccaacaa
                     cagaaaatctgtttctctcaaaaagagaaaaaaaggcaatcgctcctcag
                     atctcgagcccagaggtctcacaatcaagccctctcctccatgcaaatgc
                     ccagcacctaacctcttgggtggatcatccgtcttcatcttccctccaaa
                     gatcaaggatgtactcatgatctccctgagccccatggtcacatgtgtgg
                     tggtggatgtgagcgaggatgacccagacgtccagatcagctggtttgtg
                     aacaacgtggaagtacacacagctcagacacaaacccatagagaggatta
                     caacagtactctccgggtggtcagtgccctccccatccagcaccaggact
                     ggatgagtggcaaggagttcaaatgctcggtcaacaacaaagacctccca
                     gcgtccatcgagagaaccatctcaaaacccagagggccagtaagagctcc
                     acaggtatatgtcttgcctccaccagcagaagagatgactaagaaagagt
                     tcagtctgacctgcatgatcacaggcttcttacctgccgaaattgctgtg
                     gactggaccagcaatgggcgtacagagcaaaactacaagaacaccgcaac
                     agtcctggactctgatggttcttacttcatgtacagcaagctcagagtac
                     aaaagagcacttgggaaagaggaagtcttttcgcctgctcagtggtccac
                     gagggtctgcacaatcaccttacgactaagagcttctctcggactccggg
                     taaatgataatctagaa
  185  mDNaselL3-    mslhpasprlasllfilalhdtlalrlcsfnvrsfgaskkenheamdii
       NL-mIgG2A C   vkiikrcdillmeikdssnnicpmlmeklngnsrrsttynyvissrlgr
        (Mut)        ntykeqyafvykeklvsvktkyhyhdyqdgdtdvfsrepfvvwfhspfta
                     vkdfvivplhttpetsvkeidelvdvytdvrsqwktenfifmgdfnagcs
                     yvpkkawqni ri rtdpkfvwl igdqedttvkkstscaydrivlcgqeivn
                     svvprssgvfdfqkaydlsxexaldvsdhfpvefklqssraftnnrksvs
                     lkkrkkgnrssdleprgltikpsppckcpapnhlggssvfifppkikdvI
                     mis 1spmvtcvvvdvseddpdvqi swfvnnvevhtaqtqthredynstl r
                     vvsalpiqhqdwmsgkefkcsvnnkdlpasiertiskprgpvrapqvyvI
                     pppaeemtkkefsltcmitgflpaeiavdwtsngrteqnykntatvldsd
                     gsyfmyskirvqkstwergsifacsvvhegihnhittksfsrtpgk*
  186  huVK3LP-      gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNaselL3-    actctggctcccagataccaccggtatgaggatctgctccttcaacgtca
       hIgGi (SCC)   ggtcctttggggaaagcaagcaggaagacaagaatgccatggatgtcatt
       -NLG-         gtgaaggtcatcaaacgctgtgacatcatactcgtgatggaaatcaagga
           hR~se~-WT cagcaacaacaggatctgccccatactgatggagaagctgaacagaaatt
           hR~asl-WT caaggagaggcataacatacaactatgtgattagctctcggcttggaaga
                     aacacatataaagaacaatatgcctttctctacaaggaaaagctggtgtc
                     tgtgaagaggagttatcactaccatgactatcaggatggagacgcagatg
                     tgttttccagggagccctttgtggtctggttccaatctccccacactgct
                     gtcaaagacttcgtgattatccccctgcacaccaccccagagacatccgt
                     taaggagatcgatgagttggttgaggtctacacggacgtgaaacaccgct
                     ggaaggcggagaatttcattttcatgggtgacttcaatgccggctgcagc
                     tacgtccccaagaaggcctggaagaacatccgcttgaggactgaccccag
                     gtttgtttggctgatcggggaccaagaggacaccacggtgaagaagagca
                     ccaactgtgcatatgacaggattgtgcttagaggacaagaaatcgtcagt
                     tctgttgttcccaagtcaaacagtgtttttgacttccagaaagcttacaa
                     gctgactgaagaggaggccctggatgtcagcgaccactttccagttgaat
                     ttaaactacagtcttcaagggccttcaccaacagcaaaaaatctgtcact
                     ctaaggaagaaaacaaagagcaaacgctcagatctcgagcccaaatcttc
                     tgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggg
                     gaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatc
                     tcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaaga
                     ccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatg
                     ccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtc
                     agcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaa
                     gtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatct

                              104
                               TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    ccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgccccca
                    tcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaa
                    aggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagc
                    cggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctcc
                    ttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggg
                    gaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactaca
                    cgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggagctagcagc
                    cccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgcaggatatcccttccctgggcaa
                    ggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagcggcagcatatggactcagacagtt
                    cccccagcagcagctccacctactgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaat
                    atgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccct
                    ggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacg
                    ggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaactccagcatgcacatcacagactgc
                    cgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccccaactgtgcataccggaccagccc
                    gaaggagagacacatcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccag
                    tccactttgatgcttctgtggaggactctacctaataatctaga
  187  huVK3LP-     metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmricsfnvrsfgeskqedknamdvivkvik
       hDNaselL3-   rcdiilvmeikdsnnricpilmeklnrnsrrgitynyvissrlgrntyke
       hIgG1  (SCC) qyaflykeklvsvkrsyhyhdyqdgdadvfsrepfvvwfqsphtavkdfv
       -NLG-        iiplhttpetsvkeidelvevytdvkhrwkaenfifmgdfnagcsyvpkk
                    awknirirtdprfvwligdqedttvkkstncaydrivlrgqeivssvvpk
       hRNasel-WT   snsvfdfqkayklteeealdvsdhfpvefklqssraftnskksvtlrkkt
                    kskrslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpev
                    tcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvl
                    hqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdelt
                    knqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflysk
                    ltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasspvnvss
                    psvqdikesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvn
                    tfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmhitdcrltngsrypn
                    cayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedst*
  188  huVK3LP-     aagcttgccgccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hRNasel-WT-  ctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagc
       hIgG1 (SCC)- ggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgt
       NLG-hRNasel- aaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagt
                    gaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttcc
       WT           aggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaac
                    tccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccc
                    caactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcct
                    gtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggac
                    tctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccacc
                    gtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccc
                    caaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgc
                    gtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggta
                    cgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagc
                    agtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccag
                    gactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccct
                    cccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgag
                    aaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaac
                    caggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgc
                    cgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgc
                    ctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcacc
                    gtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgat
                    gcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctc
                    cgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcagccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagc
                    gtgcaggatatcccttccctgggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcca
                    gcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctact
                    gtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaacca

                                    105
                                     TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION       SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                         gtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgttt
                         ccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagca
                         actccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtac
                         cccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggc
                         ctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggagg
                         actctacctaataatctaga
  189  huVK3LP-          metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNasel -WT-      rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
       hIgGi (SCC) -     itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstle
       NLG-hRNasel -     pkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdv
            WT           shedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlng
            WT           keykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvslt
                         clvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksr
                         wqqgnvfscsvmheglhnhytqks is 1spgkvdgas shvnvs spsvqdi k
                         esrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvntfvhepI
                         vdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmhitdcrltngsrypncayrtsp
                         kerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedst*
  190  huVK3LP-          aagcttgccgccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hRNasel-WT-       ctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagc
        (G4S) 4          ggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgt
            h~g~- (CC)aaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagt
        hNG-       (sCC) gaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttcc
            NLG-R~ael-aggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaac
       WT                tccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccc
        U' (G4S) 4")     caactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcct
                         gtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggac
                         tctacagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagg
                         aggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaatcttctg
                         acaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctgggggga
                         ccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctc
                         ccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagacc
                         ctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgcc
                         aagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcag
                         cgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagt
                         gcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctcc
                         aaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatc
                         ccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaag
                         gcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccg
                         gagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctcctt
                         cttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcagggga
                         acgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacg
                         cagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcagcca
                         tgtgaatgtgagcagccctagcgtgcaggatatcccttccctgggcaagg
                         aatcccgggccaagaaattccagcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcc
                         cccagcagcagctccacctactgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatat
                         gacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctgg
                         tagatgtccagaatgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacggg
                         cagggcaactgctacaagagcaactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccg
                         cctgacaaacggctccaggtaccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccga
                         aggagagacacatcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtc
                         cactttgatgcttctgtggaggactctacctaataatctaga
  191  huVK3LP-          metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNasel -WT-      rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi    itdcrtngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstgg
        (SCC) -NLG-      ggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppk
            hR~asl-WT    pkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqy
            hR~asl-WT    nstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprep

                                 106
                                  TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
        (" (G4S) 4")  qvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttpp
                      vldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmheglhnhytqkslslspg
                      kvdgasshvnvsspsvqdikesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmmr
                      rrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksns smhi
                      tdcritngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedst*
  192  huVK3LP-       aagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hTREX1-72AA-   ctggctcccagataccaccggtatgggccctggagctcgcagacagggca
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi ggattgtgcagggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgcccaccccctacccca
        (SCC) -NLG-   ctccctccccttcggatcttaacactgggcactcacacacccaccccatg
            hR~asl-WT ctcctctccaggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaaccatgggctcgcagg
            hR~asl-WT ccctgcccccggggcccatgcagaccctcatctttttcgacatggaggcc
        (" (G4S) 4")  actggcttgcccttctcccagcccaaggtcacggagctgtgcctgctggc
                      tgtccacagatgtgccctggagagcccccccacctctcaggggccacctc
                      ccacagttcctccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaagctctccctgtgtgtg
                      gctccggggaaggcctgcagccctgcagccagcgagatcacaggtctgag
                      cacagctgtgctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgttttgatgacaacctgg
                      ccaacctgctcctagccttcctgcggcgccagccacagccctggtgcctg
                      gtggcacacaatggtgaccgctacgacttccccctgctccaagcagagct
                      ggctatgctgggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtgccttctgtgtggata
                      gcatcactgcgctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagcagcccctcagaacac
                      ggcccaaggaagagctacagcctaggcagcatctacactcgcctgtatgg
                      gcagtcccctccagactcgcacacggctgagggtgatgtcctggccctgc
                      tcagcatctgtcagtggagaccacaggccctgctgcggtgggtggatgct
                      cacgccaggcctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgtatggggtcacagcctc
                      tgctaggaccaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggat
                      ctggaggaggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaa
                      tcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcct
                      ggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctca
                      tgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccac
                      gaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgca
                      taatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtg
                      tggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggag
                      tacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaac
                      catctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgc
                      ccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctg
                      gtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgg
                      gcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacg
                      gctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcag
                      caggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaacca
                      ctacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggagcta
                      gcagccccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgcaggatatcccttccctg
                      ggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagcggcagcatatggactcaga
                      cagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgcc
                      ggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtgaacacctttgtgcacgag
                      cccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaa
                      gaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaactccagcatgcacatcacag
                      actgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccccaactgtgcataccggacc
                      agcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcctgtgaagggagcccatatgt
                      gccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggactctacctaataatctaga
  193  huVK3LP-       metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmgpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplppI
       hTREX1-72AA-   riltlgthtptpcsspgsaagtyptmgsqalppgpmqtliffdmeatglp
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi fsqpkvtelcllavhrcalespptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgk
        (SCC) -NLG-   acspaaseitglstavlaahgrqcfddnlanhllaflrrqpqpwclvahn
       hRNasel-WT     gdrydfpllqaelamlgltsaldgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprk
                      syslgsiytrlygqsppdshtaegdvlallsicqwrpqallrwvdaharp
        (" (G4S) 4")  fgtirpmygvtasartkggggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcp
                      pcpapel lggpsvf 1fppkpkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnw

                                  107
                                   TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION   SEQUENCE    (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                     yvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnka
                     lpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdi
                     avewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsv
                     mhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasspvnvsspsvqdikesrakkfqrqh
                     mdsds sps s sstycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqek
                     vtckngqgncyksnssmhitdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivaceg
                     spyvpvhfdasvedst*
  194  huVK3LP-      aagcttgccgccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hRNasel-WT-   ctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagc
       hIgGi (SCC) - ggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgt
       NLG-hTREX1-   aaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagt
           72AA      gaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttcc
           72AA      aggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaac
                     tccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtaccc
                     caactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcct
                     gtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggac
                     tctacagatctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccacc
                     gtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccc
                     caaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgc
                     gtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggta
                     cgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagc
                     agtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccag
                     gactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccct
                     cccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgag
                     aaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaac
                     caggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgc
                     cgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgc
                     ctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcacc
                     gtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgat
                     gcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctc
                     cgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcagccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagc
                     gtgcaggatatcatgggccctggagctcgcagacagggcaggattgtgca
                     gggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgcccaccccctaccccactccctcccc
                     ttcggatcttaacactgggcactcacacacccaccccatgctcctctcca
                     ggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaaccatgggctcgcaggccctgccccc
                     ggggcccatgcagaccctcatctttttcgacatggaggccactggcttgc
                     ccttctcccagcccaaggtcacggagctgtgcctgctggctgtccacaga
                     tgtgccctggagagcccccccacctctcaggggccacctcccacagttcc
                     tccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaagctctccctgtgtgtggctccgggga
                     aggcctgcagccctgcagccagcgagatcacaggtctgagcacagctgtg
                     ctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgttttgatgacaacctggccaacctgct
                     cctagccttcctgcggcgccagccacagccctggtgcctggtggcacaca
                     atggtgaccgctacgacttccccctgctccaagcagagctggctatgctg
                     ggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtgccttctgtgtggatagcatcactgc
                     gctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagcagcccctcagaacacggcccaagga
                     agagctacagcctaggcagcatctacactcgcctgtatgggcagtcccct
                     ccagactcgcacacggctgagggtgatgtcctggccctgctcagcatctg
                     tcagtggagaccacaggccctgctgcggtgggtggatgctcacgccaggc
                     ctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgtatggggtcacagcctctgctaggacc
                     aaatgataatctaga
  195  huVK3LP-      metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNasel -WT-  rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
       hIgGi (SCC) - itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstle
       NLG-hTREX1 -  pkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdv
           72AA      shedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlng
           72AA      keykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvslt
                     clvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksr

                                 108
                                  TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                      wqqgnvfscsvmheglhnhytqks is 1spgkvdgas shvnvs spsvqdim
                      gpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplpplriltlgthtptpcsspgsaag
                      typtmgsqalppgpmqtliffdmeatglpfsqpkvtelcllavhrcales
                      pptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgkacspaaseitglstavlaahg
                      rqcfddnlanhllaflrrqpqpwclvahngdrydfpllqaelamlgltsa
                      ldgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprksyslgsiytrlygqsppdsht
                      aegdvial1sicqwrpqa11rwvdaharpfgtirpmygvtasartk*
  196  huVK3LP-       gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNaselL3-     actctggctcccagataccaccggtatgaggatctgctccttcaacgtca
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi ggtcctttggggaaagcaagcaggaagacaagaatgccatggatgtcatt
        (SCC) -NLG-   gtgaaggtcatcaaacgctgtgacatcatactcgtgatggaaatcaagga
            hR~asl-WT cagcaacaacaggatctgccccatactgatggagaagctgaacagaaatt
            hR~asl-WT caaggagaggcataacatacaactatgtgattagctctcggcttggaaga
        U' (G4S) 4")  aacacatataaagaacaatatgcctttctctacaaggaaaagctggtgtc
                      tgtgaagaggagttatcactaccatgactatcaggatggagacgcagatg
                      tgttttccagggagccctttgtggtctggttccaatctccccacactgct
                      gtcaaagacttcgtgattatccccctgcacaccaccccagagacatccgt
                      taaggagatcgatgagttggttgaggtctacacggacgtgaaacaccgct
                      ggaaggcggagaatttcattttcatgggtgacttcaatgccggctgcagc
                      tacgtccccaagaaggcctggaagaacatccgcttgaggactgaccccag
                      gtttgtttggctgatcggggaccaagaggacaccacggtgaagaagagca
                      ccaactgtgcatatgacaggattgtgcttagaggacaagaaatcgtcagt
                      tctgttgttcccaagtcaaacagtgtttttgacttccagaaagcttacaa
                      gctgactgaagaggaggccctggatgtcagcgaccactttccagttgaat
                      ttaaactacagtcttcaagggccttcaccaacagcaaaaaatctgtcact
                      ctaaggaagaaaacaaagagcaaacgctcagatctctccggaggaggtgg
                      ctcaggtggtggaggatctggaggaggtgggagtggtggaggtggttcta
                      ccggtctcgagcccaaatcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgc
                      ccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaa
                      acccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtgg
                      tggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtg
                      gacggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagta
                      caacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggact
                      ggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctccca
                      gcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaacc
                      acaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccagg
                      tcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtg
                      gagtgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcc
                      cgtgctggactccgacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtgg
                      acaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcat
                      gagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccggg
                      taaagtcgacggtgctagcagccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagcgtgc
                      aggatatcccttccctgggcaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattccagcgg
                      cagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctactgtaa
                      ccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaaccagtga
                      acacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtttccag
                      gaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagcaactc
                      cagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggtacccca
                      actgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtggcctgt
                      gaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggaggactc
                      tacctaataatctaga
  197  huVK3LP-       metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmricsfnvrsfgeskqedknamdvivkvik
       hDNaselL3-     rcdiilvmeikdsnnricpilmeklnrnsrrgitynyvissrlgrntyke
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi qyaflykeklvsvkrsyhyhdyqdgdadvfsrepfvvwfqsphtavkdfv
        (SCC) -NLG-   iiplhttpetsvkeidelvevytdvkhrwkaenfifmgdfnagcsyvpkk
            hR~se~-WTawkni ri rtdprfvwl igdqedttvkkstncaydrivl rgqeivs svvpk
            hR~asl-WT snsvfdfqkayklteeealdvsdhfpvefklqssraftnskksvtlrkkt

                                 109
                                  TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION    SEQUENCE   (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
        U' (G4S) 4")  kskrsggggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggps
                      vf 1fppkpkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnakt
                      kpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiska
                      kgqprepqvytlpps rdeltknqvs ltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpen
                      nykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmheglhnhytqk
                      slslspgkvdgasshvnvsspsvqdikesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssst
                      ycnqmmrrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyk
                      snssmhitdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasv
                      edst*
  198  huVK3LP-       gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hRNasel-WT-    actctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi agcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctac
        (SCC) -NLG-   tgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaacc
            hD~aelL3  agtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtt
            hD~aelL3  tccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagc
        (" (G4S) 4")  aactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggta
                      ccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtgg
                      cctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggag
                      gactctacagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctgg
                      aggaggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaatctt
                      ctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctgggg
                      ggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgat
                      ctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaag
                      accctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataat
                      gccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggt
                      cagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtaca
                      agtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatc
                      tccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgccccc
                      atcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtca
                      aaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcag
                      ccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctc
                      cttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcagg
                      ggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactac
                      acgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcag
                      ccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagcgtgcaggatatcatgaggatctgct
                      ccttcaacgtcaggtcctttggggaaagcaagcaggaagacaagaatgcc
                      atggatgtcattgtgaaggtcatcaaacgctgtgacatcatactcgtgat
                      ggaaatcaaggacagcaacaacaggatctgccccatactgatggagaagc
                      tgaacagaaattcaaggagaggcataacatacaactatgtgattagctct
                      cggcttggaagaaacacatataaagaacaatatgcctttctctacaagga
                      aaagctggtgtctgtgaagaggagttatcactaccatgactatcaggatg
                      gagacgcagatgtgttttccagggagccctttgtggtctggttccaatct
                      ccccacactgctgtcaaagacttcgtgattatccccctgcacaccacccc
                      agagacatccgttaaggagatcgatgagttggttgaggtctacacggacg
                      tgaaacaccgctggaaggcggagaatttcattttcatgggtgacttcaat
                      gccggctgcagctacgtccccaagaaggcctggaagaacatccgcttgag
                      gactgaccccaggtttgtttggctgatcggggaccaagaggacaccacgg
                      tgaagaagagcaccaactgtgcatatgacaggattgtgcttagaggacaa
                      gaaatcgtcagttctgttgttcccaagtcaaacagtgtttttgacttcca
                      gaaagcttacaagctgactgaagaggaggccctggatgtcagcgaccact
                      ttccagttgaatttaaactacagtcttcaagggccttcaccaacagcaaa
                      aaatctgtcactctaaggaagaaaacaaagagcaaacgctcctaatgatc
                      taga
  199  huVK3LP-       metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNasel -WT-   rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstgg
        (SCC) -NLG-   ggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppk

                                   110
                                    TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION     SEQUENCE    (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
       hDNaselL3       pkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqy
        (" (G4S) 4")   nstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprep
                       qvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttpp
                       vldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspg
                       kvdgas shvnvs spsvqdimrics fnvrs fges kqedknamdvivkvi kr
                       cdiilvmeikdsnnricpilmeklnrnsrrgitynyvissrlgrntykeq
                       yaflykeklvsvkrsyhyhdyqdgdadvf srepfvvwfqsphtavkdfvi
                       iplhttpetsvkeidelvevytdvkhrwkaenfifmgdfnagcsyvpkka
                       wkni ri rtdprfvwl igdqedttvkkstncaydrivl rgqeivs svvpks
                       nsvfdfqkayklteeealdvsdhfpvefklqssraftnskksvtlrkktk
                       s krs*
  200  huVK3LP-        gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNasel-        actctggctcccagataccaccggtctgaagatcgcagccttcaacatcc
       G1O5R;A114F-    agacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccaccctcgtcagctacatt
        (G4S) 4-hIgGi  gtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctggtccaggaggtcagaga
             (SCC)NLG- cagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggacaacctcaatcaggatg
               -LG-
             (SC)      caccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagccactgggacggaacagc
       hTREX1i72AA     tataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctgaccaggtgtctgcggt
        (" (G4S) 4")   ggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccctgcaggaacgacacct
                       tcaaccgagagccattcattgtcaggttcttctcccggttcacagaggtc
                       agggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccccgggggacgcagtagc
                       cgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggatgtccaagagaaatggg
                       gcttggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaatgcgggctgcagctat
                       gtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgtggacaagccccacctt
                       ccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccacagctacacccacgcact
                       gtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgctgctccgaggcgccgtt
                       gttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccaggctgcctatggcctgag
                       tgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactatccagtggaggtgatgc
                       tgaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctggagga
                       ggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaatcttctga
                       caaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggac
                       cgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcc
                       cggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccc
                       tgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatgcca
                       agacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtcagc
                       gtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtg
                       caaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctcca
                       aagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcc
                       cgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaagg
                       cttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagccgg
                       agaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctccttc
                       ttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaa
                       cgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactacacgc
                       agaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcagccat
                       gtgaatgtgagcagccctagcgtgcaggatatcatgggccctggagctcg
                       cagacagggcaggattgtgcagggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgcccac
                       cccctaccccactccctccccttcggatcttaacactgggcactcacaca
                       cccaccccatgctcctctccaggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaaccat
                       gggctcgcaggccctgcccccggggcccatgcagaccctcatctttttcg
                       acatggaggccactggcttgcccttctcccagcccaaggtcacggagctg
                       tgcctgctggctgtccacagatgtgccctggagagcccccccacctctca
                       ggggccacctcccacagttcctccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaagctct
                       ccctgtgtgtggctccggggaaggcctgcagccctgcagccagcgagatc
                       acaggtctgagcacagctgtgctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgttttga
                       tgacaacctggccaacctgctcctagccttcctgcggcgccagccacagc
                       cctggtgcctggtggcacacaatggtgaccgctacgacttccccctgctc
                       caagcagagctggctatgctgggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtgcctt

                              111
                               TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    ctgtgtggatagcatcactgcgctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagcagcc
                    cctcagaacacggcccaaggaagagctacagcctaggcagcatctacact
                    cgcctgtatgggcagtcccctccagactcgcacacggctgagggtgatgt
                    cctggccctgctcagcatctgtcagtggagaccacaggccctgctgcggt
                    gggtggatgctcacgccaggcctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgtatggg
                    gtcacagcctctgctaggaccaaatgataatctaga
  201  huVK3LP-     metpaqllfllllwlpdttglkiaafniqtfgetkmsnatlvsyivqils
       hDNasel-     rydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdtyhyvvseplgrnsykery
       G105R;A114F- lfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcrndtfnrepfivrffsrftevrefai
       (G4S)4-hIgG1 vplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgledvmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsq
                    wssirlwtsptfqwlipdsadttatpthcaydrivvagmllrgavvpdsa
                    lpfnfqaayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlkggggsggggsggggsggggs
       hTREX1-72AA  lepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvv
       ("(G4S)4")   dvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwl
                    ngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvs
                    ltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdk
                    srwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasshvnvsspsvqd
                    imgpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplpplriltlgthtptpcsspgsa
                    agtyptmgsqalppgpmqtliffdmeatglpfsqpkvtelcllavhrcal
                    espptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgkacspaaseitglstavlaa
                    hgrqcfddnlanlllaflrrqpqpwclvahngdrydfpllqaelamlglt
                    saldgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprksyslgsiytrlygqsppds
                    htaegdvlallsicqwrpqallrwvdaharpfgtirpmygvtasartk*
  202  huVK3LP-     aagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgctact
       hTREX1-72AA  ctggctcccagataccaccggtatgggccctggagctcgcagacagggca
       (G4S)4-hIgG1 ggattgtgcagggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgcccaccccctacccca
       (SCC)-NLG-   ctccctccccttcggatcttaacactgggcactcacacacccaccccatg
                    ctcctctccaggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaaccatgggctcgcagg
       hDNasel-     ccctgcccccggggcccatgcagaccctcatctttttcgacatggaggcc
       G105R;A114F  actggcttgcccttctcccagcccaaggtcacggagctgtgcctgctggc
       ("(G4S)4")   tgtccacagatgtgccctggagagcccccccacctctcaggggccacctc
                    ccacagttcctccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaagctctccctgtgtgtg
                    gctccggggaaggcctgcagccctgcagccagcgagatcacaggtctgag
                    cacagctgtgctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgttttgatgacaacctgg
                    ccaacctgctcctagccttcctgcggcgccagccacagccctggtgcctg
                    gtggcacacaatggtgaccgctacgacttccccctgctccaagcagagct
                    ggctatgctgggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtgccttctgtgtggata
                    gcatcactgcgctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagcagcccctcagaacac
                    ggcccaaggaagagctacagcctaggcagcatctacactcgcctgtatgg
                    gcagtcccctccagactcgcacacggctgagggtgatgtcctggccctgc
                    tcagcatctgtcagtggagaccacaggccctgctgcggtgggtggatgct
                    cacgccaggcctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgtatggggtcacagcctc
                    tgctaggaccaaagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggat
                    ctggaggaggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaa
                    tcttctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcct
                    ggggggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctca
                    tgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccac
                    gaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgca
                    taatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtg
                    tggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggag
                    tacaagtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaac
                    catctccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgc
                    ccccatcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctg
                    gtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgg
                    gcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacg
                    gctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcag
                    caggggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaacca

                              112
                               TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION  SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                    ctacacgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggtgcta
                    gcagccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagcgtgcaggatatcctgaagatc
                    gcagccttcaacatccagacatttggggagaccaagatgtccaatgccac
                    cctcgtcagctacattgtgcagatcctgagccgctatgacatcgccctgg
                    tccaggaggtcagagacagccacctgactgccgtggggaagctgctggac
                    aacctcaatcaggatgcaccagacacctatcactacgtggtcagtgagcc
                    actgggacggaacagctataaggagcgctacctgttcgtgtacaggcctg
                    accaggtgtctgcggtggacagctactactacgatgatggctgcgagccc
                    tgcgggaacgacaccttcaaccgagagccagccattgtcaggttcttctc
                    ccggttcacagaggtcagggagtttgccattgttcccctgcatgcggccc
                    cgggggacgcagtagccgagatcgacgctctctatgacgtctacctggat
                    gtccaagagaaatggggctcggaggacgtcatgttgatgggcgacttcaa
                    tgcgggctgcagctatgtgagaccctcccagtggtcatccatccgcctgt
                    ggacaagccccaccttccagtggctgatccccgacagcgctgacaccaca
                    gctacacccacgcactgtgcctatgacaggatcgtggttgcagggatgct
                    gctccgaggcgccgttgttcccgactcggctcttccctttaacttccagn
                    ctgcctatggcctgagtgaccaactggcccaagccatcagtgaccactat
                    ccagtggaggtgatgctgaagtgataatctaga
  203  huVK3LP-     metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmgpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplppl
       hTREX1-72AA  riltlgthtptpcsspgsaagtyptmgsqalppgpmqtliffdmeatglp
       (G4S)4-hIgG1 fsqpkvtelcllavhrcalespptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgk
       (SCC)-NLG-   acspaaseitglstavlaahgrqcfddnlanlllaflrrqpqpwclvahn
       hDNasel-     gdrydfpllqaelamlgltsaldgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprk
                    syslgsiytrlygqsppdshtaegdvlallsicqwrpqallrwvdaharp
       G105R;A114F  fgtirpmygvtasartkggggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcp
       ("(G4S)4")   pcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnw
                    yvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnka
                    lpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdi
                    avewesngqpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsv
                    mhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasshvnvsspsvqdilkiaafniqtfg
                    etkmsnatlvsyivqilsrydialvqevrdshltavgklldnlnqdapdt
                    yhyvvseplgrnsykerylfvyrpdqvsavdsyyyddgcepcgndtfnre
                    paivrffsrftevrefaivplhaapgdavaeidalydvyldvqekwgsed
                    vmlmgdfnagcsyvrpsqwssirlwtsptfqwlipdsadttatpthcayd
                    rivvagmllrgavvpdsalpfnfqxayglsdqlaqaisdhypvevmlk*
  204  huVK3LP-     gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hRNasel-WT-  actctggctcccagataccaccggtaaggaatcccgggccaagaaattcc
       (G4S)4-hIgG1 agcggcagcatatggactcagacagttcccccagcagcagctccacctac
       (SCC)-NLG-   tgtaaccaaatgatgaggcgccggaatatgacacaggggcggtgcaaacc
                    agtgaacacctttgtgcacgagcccctggtagatgtccagaatgtctgtt
                    tccaggaaaaggtcacctgcaagaacgggcagggcaactgctacaagagc
       ("(G4S)4")   aactccagcatgcacatcacagactgccgcctgacaaacggctccaggta
                    ccccaactgtgcataccggaccagcccgaaggagagacacatcattgtgg
                    cctgtgaagggagcccatatgtgccagtccactttgatgcttctgtggag
                    gactctacagatctctccggaggaggtggctcaggtggtggaggatctgg
                    aggaggtgggagtggtggaggtggttctaccggtctcgagcccaaatctt
                    ctgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctgggg
                    ggaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgat
                    ctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaag
                    accctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataat
                    gccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggt
                    cagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtaca
                    agtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatc
                    tccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgccccc
                    atcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtca
                    aaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcag
                    ccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctc

                               113
                                TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION   SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                     cttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcagg
                     ggaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactac
                     acgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggtgctagcag
                     ccatgtgaatgtgagcagccctagcgtgcaggatatcatgggccctggag
                     ctcgcagacagggcaggattgtgcagggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgc
                     ccaccccctaccccactccctccccttcggatcttaacactgggcactca
                     cacacccaccccatgctcctctccaggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaa
                     ccatgggctcgcaggccctgcccccggggcccatgcagaccctcatcttt
                     ttcgacatggaggccactggcttgcccttctcccagcccaaggtcacgga
                     gctgtgcctgctggctgtccacagatgtgccctggagagcccccccacct
                     ctcaggggccacctcccacagttcctccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaag
                     ctctccctgtgtgtggctccggggaaggcctgcagccctgcagccagcga
                     gatcacaggtctgagcacagctgtgctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgtt
                     ttgatgacaacctggccaacctgctcctagccttcctgcggcgccagcca
                     cagccctggtgcctggtggcacacaatggtgaccgctacgacttccccct
                     gctccaagcagagctggctatgctgggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtg
                     ccttctgtgtggatagcatcactgcgctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagc
                     agcccctcagaacacggcccaaggaagagctacagcctaggcagcatcta
                     cactcgcctgtatgggcagtcccctccagactcgcacacggctgagggtg
                     atgtcctggccctgctcagcatctgtcagtggagaccacaggccctgctg
                     cggtgggtggatgctcacgccaggcctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgta
                     tggggtcacagcctctgctaggaccaaatgataatctaga
  205  huVK3LP-      metpaqllfllllwlpdttgkesrakkfqrqhmdsdsspsssstycnqmm
       hRNasel-WT-   rrrnmtqgrckpvntfvheplvdvqnvcfqekvtckngqgncyksnssmh
        (G4S)4-hIgG1 itdcrltngsrypncayrtspkerhiivacegspyvpvhfdasvedstgg
        (SCC)-NLG-   ggsggggsggggsggggslepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppk
                     pkdtlmisrtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqy
       hTREX1-72AA   nstyrvvsvltvlhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprep
        ("(G4S)4")   qvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttpp
                     vldsdgsfflyskltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspg
                     kvdgasshvnvsspsvqdimgpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplpplr
                     iltlgthtptpcsspgsaagtyptmgsqalppgpmqtliffdmeatglpf
                     sqpkvtelcllavhrcalespptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgka
                     cspaaseitglstavlaahgrqcfddnlanlllaflrrqpqpwclvahng
                     drydfpllqaelamlgltsaldgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprks
                     yslgsiytrlygqsppdshtaegdvlallsicqwrpqallrwvdaharpf
                     gtirpmygvtasartk*
  206  huVK3LP-      gttaagcttgccaccatggaaaccccagcgcagcttctcttcctcctgct
       hDNaselL3-    actctggctcccagataccaccggtatgaggatctgctccttcaacgtca
       hIgG1 (SCC)-  ggtcctttggggaaagcaagcaggaagacaagaatgccatggatgtcatt
       NLG-hTREX1-   gtgaaggtcatcaaacgctgtgacatcatactcgtgatggaaatcaagga
                     cagcaacaacaggatctgccccatactgatggagaagctgaacagaaatt
       72AA          caaggagaggcataacatacaactatgtgattagctctcggcttggaaga
                     aacacatataaagaacaatatgcctttctctacaaggaaaagctggtgtc
                     tgtgaagaggagttatcactaccatgactatcaggatggagacgcagatg
                     tgttttccagggagccctttgtggtctggttccaatctccccacactgct
                     gtcaaagacttcgtgattatccccctgcacaccaccccagagacatccgt
                     taaggagatcgatgagttggttgaggtctacacggacgtgaaacaccgct
                     ggaaggcggagaatttcattttcatgggtgacttcaatgccggctgcagc
                     tacgtccccaagaaggcctggaagaacatccgcttgaggactgaccccag
                     gtttgtttggctgatcggggaccaagaggacaccacggtgaagaagagca
                     ccaactgtgcatatgacaggattgtgcttagaggacaagaaatcgtcagt
                     tctgttgttcccaagtcaaacagtgtttttgacttccagaaagcttacaa
                     gctgactgaagaggaggccctggatgtcagcgaccactttccagttgaat
                     ttaaactacagtcttcaagggccttcaccaacagcaaaaaatctgtcact
                     ctaaggaagaaaacaaagagcaaacgctcagatctcgagcccaaatcttc
                     tgacaaaactcacacatgtccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggg

                               114
                                TABLE 2
SEQ ID DESCRIPTION   SEQUENCE  (NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES ARE 5'-3')
  NO:
                     gaccgtcagtcttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatc
                     tcccggacccctgaggtcacatgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaaga
                     ccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggcgtggaggtgcataatg
                     ccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgtgtggtc
                     agcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaa
                     gtgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatct
                     ccaaagccaaagggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgccccca
                     tcccgggatgagctgaccaagaaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaa
                     aggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgggagagcaatgggcagc
                     cggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgacggctcc
                     ttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggg
                     gaacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgaggctctgcacaaccactaca
                     cgcagaagagcctctctctgtctccgggtaaagtcgacggagctagcagc
                     cccgtgaacgtgagcagccccagcgtgcaggatatcatgggccctggagc
                     tcgcagacagggcaggattgtgcagggaaggcctgagatgtgcttctgcc
                     caccccctaccccactccctccccttcggatcttaacactgggcactcac
                     acacccaccccatgctcctctccaggctcagcagcaggtacgtacccaac
                     catgggctcgcaggccctgcccccggggcccatgcagaccctcatctttt
                     tcgacatggaggccactggcttgcccttctcccagcccaaggtcacggag
                     ctgtgcctgctggctgtccacagatgtgccctggagagcccccccacctc
                     tcaggggccacctcccacagttcctccaccaccgcgtgtggtagacaagc
                     tctccctgtgtgtggctccggggaaggcctgcagccctgcagccagcgag
                     atcacaggtctgagcacagctgtgctggcagcgcatgggcgtcaatgttt
                     tgatgacaacctggccaacctgctcctagccttcctgcggcgccagccac
                     agccctggtgcctggtggcacacaatggtgaccgctacgacttccccctg
                     ctccaagcagagctggctatgctgggcctcaccagtgctctggatggtgc
                     cttctgtgtggatagcatcactgcgctgaaggccctggagcgagcaagca
                     gcccctcagaacacggcccaaggaagagctacagcctaggcagcatctac
                     actcgcctgtatgggcagtcccctccagactcgcacacggctgagggtga
                     tgtcctggccctgctcagcatctgtcagtggagaccacaggccctgctgc
                     ggtgggtggatgctcacgccaggcctttcggcaccatcaggcccatgtat
                     ggggtcacagcctctgctaggaccaaatgataatctaga
  207  huVK3LP-      metpaqllfllllwlpdttgmricsfnvrsfgeskqedknamdvivkvik
       hDNaselL3-    rcdiilvmeikdsnnricpilmeklnrnsrrgitynyvissrlgrntyke
       hIgG1  (SCC)- qyaflykeklvsvkrsyhyhdyqdgdadvfsrepfvvwfqsphtavkdfv
       NLG-hTREX1-   iiplhttpetsvkeidelvevytdvkhrwkaenfifmgdfnagcsyvpkk
                     awknirirtdprfvwligdqedttvkkstncaydrivlrgqeivssvvpk
       72AA          snsvfdfqkayklteeealdvsdhfpvefklqssraftnskksvtlrkkt
                     kskrsdlepkssdkthtcppcpapellggpsvflfppkpkdtlmisrtpe
                     vtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqynstyrvvsvltv
                     lhqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdel
                     tknqvsltclvkgfypsdiavewesngqpennykttppvidsdgsfflys
                     kltvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspgkvdgasspvnvs
                     spsvqdimgpgarrqgrivqgrpemcfcppptplpplriltlgthtptpc
                     sspgsaagtyptmgsqalppgpmqtliffdmeatglpfsqpkvtelclla
                     vhrcalespptsqgppptvpppprvvdklslcvapgkacspaaseitgls
                     tavlaahgrqcfddnlanlllaflrrqpqpwclvahngdrydfpllqael
                     amlgltsaldgafcvdsitalkalerasspsehgprksyslgsiytrlyg
                     qsppdshtaegdvlallsicqwrpqallrwvdaharpfgtirpmygvtas
                     artk*
  208  This          ggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs
       sequence may
       encompass 0
       to 5 "GGGGS"

                           115
    repeating
    units
209  (G4S)5      ggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs
210  (G4S)10     ggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsgggg
                 s
211  (G4S)3      ggggsggggsggggs
212  (G4S)4      ggggsggggsggggsggggs
213  (G4S)       ggggs
214 This region  sggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggg
    may          gs
    encompass 1
    to 10
    "GGGGS"
    repeating
    units
215  (G4S)3      sggggsggggsggggs
216  (G4S)4      sggggsggggsggggsggggs
217 This region  sggggsggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs
    may
    encompass 1
    to 6 "GGGGS"
    repeating
    units
218 This         ggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs
    sequence may
    encompass 3
    to 5 "GGGGS"
    repeating
    units
219 This         ggggsggggsggggsggggsggggs
    sequence may
    encompass 1
    to 5 "GGGGS"
    repeating
    units
220 This         tttttttttttttttttt
    sequence may
    encompass 1
    to 12
    repeating
    "'t"
    nucleotides

                  116
221     ggggg
222 DNA gttaagcttg ccacc atg ggt ctg gag aag tcc ctc att
        ctg ttt cca ttg ttt ttc ctg ctg ctt gga tgg gtc
        cag cct tcc ccg ggc agg gaa tct gca gca cag aag
        ttt cag cgg cag cac atg gat cca gat ggt tcc tcc
        atc aac agc ccc acc tac tgc aac caa atg atg aaa
        cgc cgg gat atg     aca aat ggg tca tgc aag ccc
        gtg aac acc ttc gtg cat gag ccc ttg gca gat gtc
        cag gcc gtc tgc tcc cag gaa aat gtc acc tgc aag
        aac agg aag agc aac tgc tac aag agc agc tct gcc
        ctg cac atc act gac tgc cac ctg aag ggc aac tcc
        aag tat ccc aac tgt gac tac aag acc
        act caa tac cag aag cac atc att gtg gcc tgt gaa
        ggg aac ccc tac gta cca gtc cac ttt gat gct act
        gtg ctc gag ccc aga ggt ctc aca atc aag ccc tct
        cct cca tgc aaa tgc cca gca cct aac ctc ttg ggt
        gga tca tcc gtc ttc atc ttc cct cca aag atc aag
        gat gta ctc atg        atc tcc ctg agc ccc atg
        gtc aca tgt gtg gtg gtg gat gtg agc gag gat gac
        cca gac gtc cag atc agc tgg ttt gtg aac aac gtg
        gaa gta cac aca gct cag aca caa acc cat aga gag
        gat tac aac agt act ctc cgg gtg gtc agt gcc ctc
        ccc atc cag cac cag gac tgg atg agt ggc     aag
        gag ttc aaa tgc tcg gtc aac aac aaa gac ctc cca
        gcg tcc atc gag aga acc atc tca aaa ccc aga ggg
        cca gta aga gct cca cag gta tat gtc ttg cct cca
        cca gca gaa gag atg act aag aaa gag ttc agt ctg
        acc tgc atg atc aca ggc ttc tta cct gcc gaa att
        gct gtg gac       tgg acc agc aat ggg cgt aca gag
        caa aac tac aag aac acc gca aca gtc ctg gac tct
        gat ggt tct tac ttc atg tac agc aag ctc aga gta
        caa aag agc act tgg gaa aga gga agt ctt ttc gcc
        tgc tca gtg gtc cac gag ggt ctg cac aat cac ctt
        acg act aag agc ttc tct cgg act     ccg ggt aaa
        tgataatcta gaa
223     Met Gly Leu Glu Lys Ser Leu Ile Leu Phe Pro Leu
        Phe Phe Leu Leu Leu Gly Trp Val Gin Pro Ser Pro
        Gly Arg Glu Ser Ala Ala Gin Lys Phe Gin Arg Gin
        His Met Asp Pro Asp Gly Ser Ser Ile Asn Ser Pro

          117
Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gin Met Met Lys Arg Arg Asp Met
Thr Asn Gly Ser Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val
His Glu Pro Leu Ala Asp Val Gln Ala Val Cys Ser
Gln Glu Asn Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Arg Lys Ser Asn
Cys Tyr Lys Ser Ser Ser Ala Leu His Ile Thr Asp
Cys His Leu Lys Gly Asn Ser Lys Tyr Pro Asn Cys
Asp Tyr Lys Thr Thr Gln Tyr Gln Lys His Ile Ile
Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Asn Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His
Phe Asp Ala Thr Val Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Leu Thr
Ile Lys Pro Ser Pro Pro Cys Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro
Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro
Pro Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met Ile Ser Leu Ser
Pro Met Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu
Asp Asp Pro Asp
Val Gln Ile Ser Trp Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val
His Thr Ala Gln Thr Gln Thr His Arg Glu Asp Tyr
Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg Val Val Ser Ala Leu Pro Ile
Gln His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly Lys Glu Phe Lys
Cys Ser Val Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile
Glu Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys Pro Arg Gly Pro Val Arg
Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr Val Leu Pro Pro Pro Ala Glu
Glu Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu Thr Cys Met
Ile Thr Gly Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp
Trp Thr Ser Asn Gly Arg Thr Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys
Asn Thr Ala Thr Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Tyr
Phe Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val Gln Lys Ser Thr
Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val
His Glu Gly Leu His Asn His Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser
Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro Gly Lys

                                                    118
CLAIMS:
1.      A hybrid nuclease molecule comprising a first nuclease domain and an Fc domain,
wherein the first nuclease domain is operatively coupled to the Fc domain.
2.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, wherein the amino acid sequence of the first nuclease domain comprises a
human, wild-type RNase amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:149, wherein the
amino acid sequence of the Fc domain comprises a human, wild-type IgGI Fc domain amino
acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:145.
        The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide consisting of SEQ ID NO:163.
4.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule
comprises wild-type, human DNasel linked to wild-type, human IgG1.
5.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule
comprises human DNase1 G05R A1 14F linked to wild-type, human IgGl.
6.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule
comprises wild-type, human RNasel linked to wild-type, human IgGI linked to wild-type,
human DNase l.
7.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule
comprises wild-type, human RNasel linked to wild-type, human IgG1 linked to human
DNasel G105RA114F.
8.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the Fc domain binds to an Fc
receptor on a human cell.
9.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the serum half-life of the molecule
is significantly longer than the serum half-life of the first nuclease domain alone.
10.     The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the nuclease activity of the first
nuclease domain of the molecule is the same or greater than the nuclease domain alone.

                                                 119
11.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein administration of the molecule to a
mouse increases the survival rate of the mouse as measured by a mouse Lupus model assay.
1".      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the molecule further comprises a
first linker domain, and wherein the first nuclease domain is operatively coupled to the Fc
domain by the first linker domain.
13.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, wherein the amino acid sequence of the first nuclease domain comprises a
RNase amino acid sequence, wherein the first linker domain is between 5 and 32 amino acids
in length, wherein the amino acid sequence of the Fc domain comprises a human, Fc domain
amino acid sequence, and wherein the first linker domain is coupled to the C-terminus of the
first nuclease domain and the N-terminus of the Fc domain.
 14.     The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, wherein the amino acid sequence of the first nuclease domain comprises a
human RNase amino acid sequence, wherein the first linker domain is a NLG peptide
between 5 and 32 amino acids in length, wherein the amino acid sequence of the Fc domain
comprises a human, wild-type Fc domain amino acid sequence, and wherein the first linker
domain is coupled to the C-terminus of the first nuclease domain and the N-terminus of the
Fc domain.
15.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, further comprising a leader sequence.
16.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 15, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the leader sequence is human VK3LP peptide, and wherein the
leader sequence is coupled to the N-terminus of the first nuclease domain.
 17.     The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the molecule is a polypeptide.
18.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the molecule is a polynucleotide.
19.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the first nuclease domain
comprises an RNase.
20.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 19, wherein the RNase is a human RNase.

                                                 120
21.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 19, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the RNase is a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at
least 90% similar to an RNase amino acid sequence set forth in Table 2.
22.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 19, wherein the RNase is human pancreatic
RNase1.
23.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the first nuclease domain
comprises a DNase.
24.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 23, wherein the DNase is a human DNase.
25.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 23, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the DNase is a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at
least 90% similar to a DNase amino acid sequence set forth in Table 2.
26.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 23, wherein the DNase is selected from the
group consisting of human DNase I, TREXI, and human DNase 1L3.
27.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the Fc domain is a human Fc
domain.
28.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the Fc domain is a wild-type Fc
domain.
29.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the Fc domain is a mutant Fc
domain.
30.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the Fc domain is a human IgGI Fc
domain.
31.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the Fc domain is a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence
at least 90% similar to an Fc domain amino acid sequence set forth in Table 2.
32.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain has a length of about 1 to about 50 amino
acids.

                                                   121
33.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain has a length of about 5 to about 32 amino
acids.
34.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain has a length of about 15 to about 25 amino
acids.
35.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain has a length of about 20 to about 32 amino
acids.
36.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain has a length of about 20 amino acids.
37.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain has a length of about 25 amino acids.
38.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain has a length of about 18 amino acids.
39.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain comprises a gly/ser peptide.
40.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 39, wherein the gly/ser peptide is of the
formula (Gly 4 Ser)n, wherein n is a positive integer selected from the group consisting of 1, 2,
3,4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10.
41.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 39, wherein the gly/ser peptide comprises
(Gly 4 Ser)3, (Gly 4 Ser)4, or (Gly 4 Ser)5.
42.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain comprises an NLG peptide.
43.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 12, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first linker domain comprises an N-linked glycosylation site.

                                                  122
44.      The hybrid nuclease molecule claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first nuclease domain is linked to the N-terminus of the Fc
domain.
45.      The hybrid nuclease molecule claim 1, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the first nuclease domain is linked to the C-terminus of the Fc
domain.
46.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, further comprising a second nuclease
domain.
47.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 46, wherein the first and second nuclease
domains are distinct nuclease domains.
48.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 46, wherein the first and second nuclease
domains are the same nuclease domains.
49.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 46, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the second nuclease domain is linked to the C-terminus of the Fc
domain.
50.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 46, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the second nuclease domain is linked to the N-terminus of the Fc
domain.
51.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 46, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the second nuclease domain is linked to the C-terminus of the first
nuclease domain.
52.      The hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 46, wherein the hybrid nuclease molecule is a
polypeptide, and wherein the second nuclease domain is linked to the N-terminus of the first
nuclease domain.
53.      A dimeric polypeptide comprising a first polypeptide and a second polypeptide,
wherein the first polypeptide comprises a first nuclease domain and an Fc domain, wherein
the first nuclease domain is operatively coupled to the Fc domain.

                                                  123
54.     The dimeric polypeptide of claim 53, wherein the second polypeptide is a second
hybrid nuclease molecule comprising a second nuclease domain and a second Fc domain,
wherein the second nuclease domain is operatively coupled to the second Fc domain.
55.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one hybrid nuclease molecule
and/or at least one dimeric polypeptide according to any one of claims 1-54, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
56.     A nucleic acid molecule encoding the hybrid nuclease molecule according to claim
 17.
57.     A recombinant expression vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule according to
claim 56.
58.     A host cell transformed with the recombinant expression vector according to claim
57.
59.     A method of making the hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1, comprising: providing
a host cell comprising a nucleic acid sequence that encodes the hybrid nuclease molecule; and
maintaining the host cell under conditions in which the hybrid nuclease molecule is
expressed.
60.     A method for treating or preventing a condition associated with an abnormal immune
response, comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of an
isolated hybrid nuclease molecule of claim 1.
61.     The method of claim 60, wherein the condition is an autoimmune disease.
62.     The method of claim 61, wherein the autoimmune disease is selected from the group
consisting   of  insulin-dependent    diabetes   mellitus, multiple    sclerosis, experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis, rheumatoid arthritis, experimental autoimmune arthritis,
myasthenia gravis, thyroiditis, an experimental form of uveoretinitis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis,
primary myxoedema, thyrotoxicosis, pernicious anaemia, autoimmune atrophic gastritis,
Addison's disease, premature menopause, male infertility, juvenile diabetes, Goodpasture's
syndrome, pemphigus vulgaris, pemphigoid, sympathetic ophthalmia, phacogenic uveitis,
autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, idiopathic leucopenia, primary biliary cirrhosis, active
chronic hepatitis Hbs-ve, cryptogenic cirrhosis, ulcerative colitis, Sjogren's syndrome,
scleroderma,    Wegener's   granulomatosis,    polymyositis,  dermatomyositis,    discoid LE,

                                               124
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and connective tissue disease.
63.    The method of claim 61, wherein the autoimmune disease is SLE.
                                University of Washington
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                     1/213
                                               SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110> UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
              <120> THERAPEUTIC NUCLEASE COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS
              <130> 27061-17583/AU
              <140> AU 2010313103
              <141> 2010-11-02
              <150> PCT/US10/55131
<removed-apn>
              <151> 2010-11-02
              <150> 61/370,752
              <151> 2010-08-04
              <150> 61/257,458
              <151> 2009-11-02
              <160> 223
              <170> PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 1
              gttaagcttg ccaccatggg tctggagaag tccctcattc tg        42
              <210>   2
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 2
              gataccaccg gtagggaatc tgcagcacag aagtttcag            39
              <210>   3
              <211>   40
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic

                                                   2/213
                      primer
<removed-date>
              <400> 3
              ggctcgagca cagtagcatc aaagtggact ggtacgtagg             40
              <210>   4
              <211>   48
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    oligonucleotide
              <400> 4
              aaatctagac ctcaaccagg tagggaatct gcagcacaga agtttcag    48
              <210>   5
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    oligonucleotide
              <400> 5
              tctagactat cacacagtag catcaaagtg gactggtacg tag         43
              <210>   6
              <211>   49
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 6
              tgtccaccgt gtccagcacc tgaactcctg ggtggatcgt cagtcttcc   49
              <210>   7
              <211>   49
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 7
              agatctcgag cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgt   49

                                                   3/213
<removed-date>
              <210>   8
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 8
              tctagattat catttacccg gagacagaga gaggctcttc tgcgtgtagt g          51
<removed-apn>
              <210>   9
              <211>   58
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 9
              cctccatgca aatgcccagc acctaacctc ttgggtggat catccgtctt catcttcc   58
              <210>   10
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 10
              gaagatctcg agcccagagg tcccacaatc aagccctctc ctcca                 45
              <210>   11
              <211>   48
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 11
              gtttctagat tatcatttac ccggagtccg agagaagctc ttagtcgt              48
              <210>   12
              <211>   49
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                   4/213
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 12
              agatctcgag cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgt      49
              <210>   13
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 13
              gttttctcga tggaggctgg gagggctttg ttggagacc                 39
              <210>   14
              <211>   48
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 14
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagcctcc atcgagaaaa caatctcc       48
              <210>   15
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 15
              tctagattat catttacccg gagacagaga gaggctcttc tgcgtgtagt g   51
              <210>   16
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer

                                                     5/213
              <400> 16
<removed-date>
              accggtaagg aatcccgggc caagaaattc c                    31
              <210>   17
              <211>   40
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 17
              ctcgagatct gtagagtcct ccacagaagc atcaaagtgg           40
              <210>   18
              <211>   33
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 18
              agactgccgc ctgacaaacg actccaggta ccc                  33
              <210>   19
              <211>   33
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 19
              gggtacctgg agtcgtttgt caggcggcag tct                  33
              <210>   20
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 20
              accggtatgg gctcacagac cctgccccat ggtcaca              37
              <210> 21

                                                   6/213
              <211> 43
<removed-date>
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 21
              ctcgagatct gttgttccag tggtagccgg agtgccgtac atg       43
<removed-apn>
              <210>   22
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 22
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgtc cctgcaccca gcttccccac gcctg     45
              <210>   23
              <211>   44
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 23
              ctcgagatct gaggagcgat tgcctttttt tctctttttg agag      44
              <210>   24
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 24
              accggtctaa ggctctgctc cttcaatgtg aggtcctttg ga        42
              <210>   25
              <211>   44
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>

                                                   7/213
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-date>
                    primer
              <400> 25
              ctcgagatct gaggagcgat tgcctttttt tctctttttg agag      44
              <210>   26
              <211>   36
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 26
              gttaccggtc tgaagatcgc agccttcaac atccag               36
              <210>   27
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 27
              gttctcgaga tctttcagca tcacctccac tggatagtg            39
              <210>   28
              <211>   36
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 28
              gttgatatcc tgaagatcgc agccttcaac atccag               36
              <210>   29
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 29
              gtttctagat tatcacttca gcatcacctc cactggatag tg        42

                                                   8/213
<removed-date>
              <210>   30
              <211>   49
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 30
<removed-apn>
              tgtccaccgt gtccagcacc tgaactcctg ggtggatcgt cagtcttcc   49
              <210>   31
              <211>   49
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 31
              agatctcgag cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgt   49
              <210>   32
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 32
              gaagatctcg agcccaaatc ttctgacaaa actcacacat gt          42
              <210>   33
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 33
              gttagatctc gagcccaaat cttctgacaa aactcacaca tct         43
              <210> 34
              <211> 51
              <212> DNA

                                                   9/213
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 34
              tctagattat catttacccg gagacagaga gaggctcttc tgcgtgtagt g   51
              <210>   35
              <211>   48
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 35
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagcctcc atcgagaaaa caatctcc       48
              <210>   36
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 36
              gttttctcga tggaggctgg gagggctttg ttggagacc                 39
              <210>   37
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 37
              aagcttgcca ccatggctct ggagaagtct cttgtccggc tcc            43
              <210>   38
              <211>   40
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer

                                                   10/213
<removed-date>
              <400> 38
              ctcgagatct gtagagtcct ccacagaagc atcaaagtgg           40
              <210>   39
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-apn>
                    primer
              <400> 39
              accggtaagg aatcccgggc caagaaattc c                    31
              <210>   40
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 40
              gatatccctt ccctgggcaa ggaatcccgg gccaagaaat tccag     45
              <210>   41
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 41
              gtttctagat tattaggtag agtcctccac agaagcatca aagtg     45
              <210>   42
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 42
              ggtaagcttg ccaccatgtc acgggagctg gccccactgc tgctt     45

                                                  11/213
              <210>   43
<removed-date>
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 43
              ctcgagatct gaggagcgtt tgctctttgt tttcttcctt ag        42
<removed-apn>
              <210>   44
              <211>   41
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 44
              accggtatga ggatctgctc cttcaacgtc aggtcctttg g         41
              <210>   45
              <211>   36
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 45
              gttaccggtc tgaagatcgc agccttcaac atccag               36
              <210>   46
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 46
              gttctcgaga tctttcagca tcacctccac tggatagtg            39
              <210>   47
              <211>   36
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                  12/213
              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 47
              gttgatatcc tgaagatcgc agccttcaac atccag                             36
              <210>   48
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 48
              gtttctagat tatcacttca gcatcacctc cactggatag tg                      42
              <210>   49
              <211>   60
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 49
              gatggctgcg agccctgcag gaacgacacc ttcaaccgag agccattcat tgtcaggttc   60
              <210>   50
              <211>   60
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 50
              gaacctgaca atgaatggct ctcggttgaa ggtgtcgttc ctgcagggct cgcagccatc   60
              <210>   51
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 51

                                                  13/213
              ggagaagaac ctgacaatga atggctctcg gttgaaggt            39
<removed-date>
              <210>   52
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 52
              accttcaacc gagagccatt cattgtcagg ttcttctcc            39
              <210>   53
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 53
              accggtatgg gccctggagc tcgcagacag ggcag                35
              <210>   54
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 54
              ctcgagatct ttggtcctag cagaggctgt gacc                 34
              <210>   55
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 55
              accggtctcg agatgggccc tggagctcgc agacagg              37
              <210> 56
              <211> 31

                                                   14/213
              <212> DNA
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 56
              ctcgagtttg gtcctagcag aggctgtgac c                    31
              <210>   57
<removed-apn>
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 57
              accggtatgg gctcacagac cctgccccat ggtcaca              37
              <210>   58
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 58
              ctcgagatct gttgttccag tggtagccgg agtgccgtac atg       43
              <210>   59
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 59
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgtc cctgcaccca gcttccccac gcctg     45
              <210>   60
              <211>   44
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic

                                                  15/213
                      primer
<removed-date>
              <400> 60
              ctcgagatct gaggagcgat tgcctttttt tctctttttg agag                  44
              <210>   61
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 61
              gttaagcttg ccaccatggg tctggagaag tccctcattc tg                    42
              <210>   62
              <211>   40
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 62
              ggctcgagca cagtagcatc aaagtggact ggtacgtagg                       40
              <210>   63
              <211>   58
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 63
              cctccatgca aatgcccagc acctaacctc ttgggtggat catccgtctt catcttcc   58
              <210>   64
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 64
              agatctcgag cccagaggtc ccacaatcaa gccctctcct ccatgcaaat gcc        53

                                                  16/213
<removed-date>
              <210>   65
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 65
              gaagatctcg agcccagagg tcccacaatc aagccctctc ctcca                45
<removed-apn>
              <210>   66
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 66
              atcaagccct ctcctccatc taaatcccca gcacctaac                       39
              <210>   67
              <211>   57
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 67
              agtggcaagg agttcaaatg ctcggtcaag aagaaagacc tcccagcgtc catcgag   57
              <210>   68
              <211>   55
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 68
              ggttctctcg atggacgctg ggaggtcttt gttgttgacc gagcatttga actcc     55
              <210>   69
              <211>   48
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                  17/213
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 69
              gtttctagat tatcatttac ccggagtccg agagaagctc ttagtcgt       48
              <210>   70
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 70
              gctagctccg tcgactttac ccggagacag agagagg                   37
              <210>   71
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 71
              gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc tcggtctcca acaaagccct c   51
              <210>   72
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 72
              gagggctttg ttggagaccg agcacttgta agacttgcca ttcagccagt c   51
              <210>   73
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer

                                                  18/213
              <400> 73
<removed-date>
              ccgcgggagg agcagtacag cagcacgtac cgtgtggtca gcgtc     45
              <210>   74
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 74
              gacgctgacc acacggtacg tgctgctgta ctgctcctcc cgcgg     45
              <210>   75
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 75
              gatatctcta gatttacccg gagtccgaga gaagctctta gtcgt     45
              <210>   76
              <211>   47
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 76
              gatatctccg gagtcgactt tacccggagt ccgagagaag ctcttag   47
              <210>   77
              <211>   44
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 77
              cacaaaccca tagagaggat tacagcagta ctctccgggt ggtc      44
              <210> 78

                                                  19/213
              <211> 44
<removed-date>
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 78
              gaccacccgg agagtactgc tgtaatcctc tctatgggtt tgag           44
<removed-apn>
              <210> 79
              <400> 79
              000
              <210>   80
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 80
              gatatcaccg gtagaaccac ctccaccact cccacctcct ccagtgcctc c   51
              <210>   81
              <211>   50
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 81
              gtcgactccg gaggaggtgg ctcaggtggt ggaggcagtg gaggaggtgg     50
              <210>   82
              <211>   48
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 82
              aaagtcgacg gagctagcag ccccgtgaac gtgagcagcc ccagcgtg       48

                                                  20/213
              <210>   83
<removed-date>
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 83
              cccatgatat cctgcacgct ggggctgctc                      30
<removed-apn>
              <210>   84
              <211>   41
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 84
              accggtatga ggatctgctc cttcaacgtc aggtcctttg g         41
              <210>   85
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 85
              agatctttat caggagcgtt tgctctttgt tttcttcctt ag        42
              <210>   86
              <211>   44
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 86
              tctagattat caggagcgat tgcctttttt tctctttttg agag      44
              <210>   87
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                  21/213
              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 87
              accggtctaa ggctctgctc cttcaatgtg aggtcctttg ga         42
              <210>   88
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 88
              gataccaccg gtagggaatc tgcagcacag aagtttcag             39
              <210>   89
              <211>   48
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 89
              aaatctagac ctcaaccagg tagggaatct gcagcacaga agtttcag   48
              <210>   90
              <211>   42
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 90
              tctagactat cacacagtag catcaaagtg gactggtacg ta         42
              <210>   91
              <211>   33
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 91

                                                     22/213
              agactgccgc ctgacaaacg actccaggta ccc                        33
<removed-date>
              <210>   92
              <211>   33
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 92
              gggtacctgg agtcgtttgt caggcggcag tct                        33
              <210>   93
              <211>   52
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 93
              ggctcaggtg gtggaggatc tggaggaggt ggctcaggtg gtggaggatc tg   52
              <210>   94
              <211>   46
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 94
              gttagatctc tccggaggag gtggctcagg tggtggagga tctgga          46
              <210>   95
              <211>   46
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 95
              ctcgagactc ccacctcctc cagatcctcc accacctgag ccacct          46
              <210> 96
              <211> 50

                                                    23/213
              <212> DNA
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 96
              aaagatctct ccggaggagg tggctcaggt ggtggaggat ctggaggagg   50
              <210>   97
<removed-apn>
              <211>   50
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 97
              ctcgagaccg gtagaaccac ctccaccact cccacctcct ccagatcctc   50
              <210>   98
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 98
              gttagatctc tccggaggag gtggctca                           28
              <210>   99
              <211>   32
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer
              <400> 99
              accggtctcg agactcccac ctcctccaga tc                      32
              <210>   100
              <211>   82
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic

                                                   24/213
                      oligonucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 100
              agatctctcc ggaggaggtg gctcaggtgg tggaggatct ggaggaggtg ggagtggtgg    60
              aggtggttct accggtctcg ag                                             82
              <210>   101
              <211>   97
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    oligonucleotide
              <400> 101
              agatctctcc ggaggaggtg gctcaggtgg tggaggatct ggaggaggtg gctcaggtgg    60
              tggaggatct ggaggaggtg ggagtaccgg tctcgag                             97
              <210>   102
              <211>   91
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    oligonucleotide
              <400> 102
              agatctctcc ggaggaggtg gctcaggtgg tggaggatct ggaggaggtg gctcaggtgg    60
              tggaggatct ggaggaggtg ggagtctcga g                                   91
              <210>   103
              <211>   462
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 103
              gtcgacggag ctagcagccc cgtgaacgtg agcagcccca gcgtgcagga tatcccttcc    60
              ctgggcaagg aatcccgggc caagaaattc cagcggcagc atatggactc agacagttcc   120
              cccagcagca gctccaccta ctgtaaccaa atgatgaggc gccggaatat gacacagggg   180
              cggtgcaaac cagtgaacac ctttgtgcac gagcccctgg tagatgtcca gaatgtctgt   240
              ttccaggaaa aggtcacctg caagaacggg cagggcaact gctacaagag caactccagc   300

                                                  25/213
<removed-date>
              atgcacatca cagactgccg cctgacaaac gactccaggt accccaactg tgcataccgg   360
              accagcccga aggagagaca catcattgtg gcctgtgaag ggagcccata tgtgccagtc   420
              cactttgatg cttctgtgga ggactctacc taataatcta ga                      462
              <210>   104
              <211>   798
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 104
              gatatcctga agatcgcagc cttcaacatc cagacatttg gggagaccaa gatgtccaat    60
              gccaccctcg tcagctacat tgtgcagatc ctgagccgct atgacatcgc cctggtccag   120
              gaggtcagag acagccacct gactgccgtg gggaagctgc tggacaacct caatcaggat   180
              gcaccagaca cctatcacta cgtggtcagt gagccactgg gacggaacag ctataaggag   240
              cgctacctgt tcgtgtacag gcctgaccag gtgtctgcgg tggacagcta ctactacgat   300
              gatggctgcg agccctgcag gaacgacacc ttcaaccgag agccattcat tgtcaggttc   360
              ttctcccggt tcacagaggt cagggagttt gccattgttc ccctgcatgc ggccccgggg   420
              gacgcagtag ccgagatcga cgctctctat gacgtctacc tggatgtcca agagaaatgg   480
              ggcttggagg acgtcatgtt gatgggcgac ttcaatgcgg gctgcagcta tgtgagaccc   540
              tcccagtggt catccatccg cctgtggaca agccccacct tccagtggct gatccccgac   600
              agcgctgaca ccacagctac acccacgcac tgtgcctatg acaggatcgt ggttgcaggg   660
              atgctgctcc gaggcgccgt tgttcccgac tcggctcttc cctttaactt ccaggctgcc   720
              tatggcctga gtgaccaact ggcccaagcc atcagtgacc actatccagt ggaggtgatg   780
              ctgaagtgat aatctaga                                                 798
              <210>   105
              <211>   798
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 105
              gatatcctga agatcgcagc cttcaacatc cagacatttg gggagaccaa gatgtccaat    60
              gccaccctcg tcagctacat tgtgcagatc ctgagccgct atgacatcgc cctggtccag   120

                                                  26/213
              gaggtcagag acagccacct gactgccgtg gggaagctgc tggacaacct caatcaggat   180
<removed-date>
              gcaccagaca cctatcacta cgtggtcagt gagccactgg gacggaacag ctataaggag   240
              cgctacctgt tcgtgtacag gcctgaccag gtgtctgcgg tggacagcta ctactacgat   300
              gatggctgcg agccctgcgg gaacgacacc ttcaaccgag agccagccat tgtcaggttc   360
              ttctcccggt tcacagaggt cagggagttt gccattgttc ccctgcatgc ggccccgggg   420
              gacgcagtag ccgagatcga cgctctctat gacgtctacc tggatgtcca agagaaatgg   480
<removed-apn>
              ggcttggagg acgtcatgtt gatgggcgac ttcaatgcgg gctgcagcta tgtgagaccc   540
              tcccagtggt catccatccg cctgtggaca agccccacct tccagtggct gatccccgac   600
              agcgctgaca ccacagctac acccacgcac tgtgcctatg acaggatcgt ggttgcaggg   660
              atgctgctcc gaggcgccgt tgttcccgac tcggctcttc cctttaactt ccaggctgcc   720
              tatggcctga gtgaccaact ggcccaagcc atcagtgacc actatccagt ggaggtgatg   780
              ctgaaatgat aatctaga                                                 798
              <210>   106
              <211>   798
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 106
              gatatcctga agatcgcagc cttcaacatc cagacatttg gggagaccaa gatgtccaat    60
              gccaccctcg tcagctacat tgtgcagatc ctgagccgct atgacatcgc cctggtccag   120
              gaggtcagag acagccacct gactgccgtg gggaagctgc tggacaacct caatcaggat   180
              gcaccagaca cctatcacta cgtggtcagt gagccactgg gacggaacag ctataaggag   240
              cgctacctgt tcgtgtacag gcctgaccag gtgtctgcgg tggacagcta ctactacgat   300
              gatggctgcg agccctgcgg gaacgacacc ttcaaccgag agccattcat tgtcaggttc   360
              ttctcccggt tcacagaggt cagggagttt gccattgttc ccctgcatgc ggccccgggg   420
              gacgcagtag ccgagatcga cgctctctat gacgtctacc tggatgtcca agagaaatgg   480
              ggcttagagg acgtcatgtt gatgggcgac ttcaatgcgg gctgcagcta tgtgagaccc   540
              tcccagtggt catccatccg cctgtggaca agccccacct tccagtggct gatccccgac   600
              agcgctgaca ccacagctac acccacgcac tgtgcctatg acaggatcgt ggttgcaggg   660

                                                  27/213
              atgctgctcc gaggcgccgt tgttcccgac tcggctcttc cctttaactt ccaggctgcc   720
<removed-date>
              tatggcctga gtgaccaact ggcccaagcc atcagtgacc actatccagt ggaggtgatg   780
              ctgaagtgat aatctaga                                                 798
              <210>   107
              <211>   795
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 107
              accggtctga agatcgcagc cttcaacatc cagacatttg gggagaccaa gatgtccaat    60
              gccaccctcg tcagctacat tgtgcagatc ctgagccgct atgacatcgc cctggtccag   120
              gaggtcagag acagccacct gactgccgtg gggaagctgc tggacaacct caatcaggat   180
              gcaccagaca cctatcacta cgtggtcagt gagccactgg gacggaacag ctataaggag   240
              cgctacctgt tcgtgtacag gcctgaccag gtgtctgcgg tggacagcta ctactacgat   300
              gatggctgcg agccctgcag gaacgacacc ttcaaccgag agccattcat tgtcaggttc   360
              ttctcccggt tcacagaggt cagggagttt gccattgttc ccctgcatgc ggccccgggg   420
              gacgcagtag ccgagatcga cgctctctat gacgtctacc tggatgtcca agagaaatgg   480
              ggcttggagg acgtcatgtt gatgggcgac ttcaatgcgg gctgcagcta tgtgagaccc   540
              tcccagtggt catccatccg cctgtggaca agccccacct tccagtggct gatccccgac   600
              agcgctgaca ccacagctac acccacgcac tgtgcctatg acaggatcgt ggttgcaggg   660
              atgctgctcc gaggcgccgt tgttcccgac tcggctcttc cctttaactt ccaggctgcc   720
              tatggcctga gtgaccaact ggcccaagcc atcagtgacc actatccagt ggaggtgatg   780
              ctgaaagatc tcgag                                                    795
              <210>   108
              <211>   795
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 108
              accggtctga agatcgcagc cttcaacatc cagacatttg gggagaccaa gatgtccaat    60
              gccaccctcg tcagctacat tgtgcagatc ctgagccgct atgacatcgc cctggtccag   120
              gaggtcagag acagccacct gactgccgtg gggaagctgc tggacaacct caatcaggat   180

                                                  28/213
<removed-date>
              gcaccagaca cctatcacta cgtggtcagt gagccactgg gacggaacag ctataaggag   240
              cgctacctgt tcgtgtacag gcctgaccag gtgtctgcgg tggacagcta ctactacgat   300
              gatggctgcg agccctgcgg gaacgacacc ttcaaccgag agccagccat tgtcaggttc   360
              ttctcccggt tcacagaggt cagggagttt gccattgttc ccctgcatgc ggccccgggg   420
              gacgcagtag ccgagatcga cgctctctat gacgtctacc tggatgtcca agagaaatgg   480
              ggcttggagg acgtcatgtt gatgggcgac ttcaatgcgg gctgcagcta tgtgagaccc   540
<removed-apn>
              tcccagtggt catccatccg cctgtggaca agccccacct tccagtggct gatccccgac   600
              agcgctgaca ccacagctac acccacgcac tgtgcctatg acaggatcgt ggttgcaggg   660
              atgctgctcc gaggcgccgt tgttcccgac tcggctcttc cctttaactt ccaggctgcc   720
              tatggcctga gtgaccaact ggcccaagcc atcagtgacc actatccagt ggaggtgatg   780
              ctgaaagatc tcgag                                                    795
              <210>   109
              <211>   795
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 109
              accggtctga agatcgcagc cttcaacatc cagacatttg gggagaccaa gatgtccaat    60
              gccaccctcg tcagctacat tgtgcagatc ctgagccgct atgacatcgc cctggtccag   120
              gaggtcagag acagccacct gactgccgtg gggaagctgc tggacaacct caatcaggat   180
              gcaccagaca cctatcacta cgtggtcagt gagccactgg gacggaacag ctataaggag   240
              cgctacctgt tcgtgtacag gcctgaccag gtgtctgcgg tggacagcta ctactacgat   300
              gatggctgcg agccctgcgg gaacgacacc ttcaaccgag agccattcat tgtcaggttc   360
              ttctcccggt tcacagaggt cagggagttt gccattgttc ccctgcatgc ggccccgggg   420
              gacgcagtag ccgagatcga cgctctctat gacgtctacc tggatgtcca agagaaatgg   480
              ggcttagagg acgtcatgtt gatgggcgac ttcaatgcgg gctgcagcta tgtgagaccc   540
              tcccagtggt catccatccg cctgtggaca agccccacct tccagtggct gatccccgac   600
              agcgctgaca ccacagctac acccacgcac tgtgcctatg acaggatcgt ggttgcaggg   660
              atgctgctcc gaggcgccgt tgttcccgac tcggctcttc cctttaactt ccaggctgcc   720

                                                  29/213
<removed-date>
              tatggcctga gtgaccaact ggcccaagcc atcagtgacc actatccagt ggaggtgatg   780
              ctgaaagatc tcgag                                                    795
              <210>   110
              <211>   715
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 110
<removed-apn>
              agatctcgag cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgcc cagcacctga    60
              actcctgggg ggaccgtcag tcttcctctt ccccccaaaa cccaaggaca ccctcatgat   120
              ctcccggacc cctgaggtca catgcgtggt ggtggacgtg agccacgaag accctgaggt   180
              caagttcaac tggtacgtgg acggcgtgga ggtgcataat gccaagacaa agccgcggga   240
              ggagcagtac aacagcacgt accgtgtggt cagcgtcctc accgtcctgc accaggactg   300
              gctgaatggc aaggagtaca agtgcaaggt ctccaacaaa gccctcccag cccccatcga   360
              gaaaaccatc tccaaagcca aagggcagcc ccgagaacca caggtgtaca ccctgccccc   420
              atcccgggat gagctgacca agaaccaggt cagcctgacc tgcctggtca aaggcttcta   480
              tcccagcgac atcgccgtgg agtgggagag caatgggcag ccggagaaca actacaagac   540
              cacgcctccc gtgctggact ccgacggctc cttcttcctc tacagcaagc tcaccgtgga   600
              caagagcagg tggcagcagg ggaacgtctt ctcatgctcc gtgatgcatg aggctctgca   660
              caaccactac acgcagaaga gcctctctct gtctccgggt aaatgataat ctaga        715
              <210>   111
              <211>   858
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 111
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag   120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc   180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc   240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc   300

                                                  30/213
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac   360
<removed-date>
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcggg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccagccatt   420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg   480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa   540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat   600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg   660
<removed-apn>
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg   720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc   780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg   840
              gaggtgatgc tgaagtga                                                 858
              <210>   112
              <211>   918
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 112
              atgtcacggg agctggcccc actgctgctt ctcctcctct ccatccacag cgccctggcc    60
              atgaggatct gctccttcaa cgtcaggtcc tttggggaaa gcaagcagga agacaagaat   120
              gccatggatg tcattgtgaa ggtcatcaaa cgctgtgaca tcatactcgt gatggaaatc   180
              aaggacagca acaacaggat ctgccccata ctgatggaga agctgaacag aaattcaagg   240
              agaggcataa catacaacta tgtgattagc tctcggcttg gaagaaacac atataaagaa   300
              caatatgcct ttctctacaa ggaaaagctg gtgtctgtga agaggagtta tcactaccat   360
              gactatcagg atggagacgc agatgtgttt tccagggagc cctttgtggt ctggttccaa   420
              tctccccaca ctgctgtcaa agacttcgtg attatccccc tgcacaccac cccagagaca   480
              tccgttaagg agatcgatga gttggttgag gtctacacgg acgtgaaaca ccgctggaag   540
              gcggagaatt tcattttcat gggtgacttc aatgccggct gcagctacgt ccccaagaag   600
              gcctggaaga acatccgctt gaggactgac cccaggtttg tttggctgat cggggaccaa   660
              gaggacacca cggtgaagaa gagcaccaac tgtgcatatg acaggattgt gcttagagga   720
              caagaaatcg tcagttctgt tgttcccaag tcaaacagtg tttttgactt ccagaaagct   780
              tacaagctga ctgaagagga ggccctggat gtcagcgacc actttccagt tgaatttaaa   840
              ctacagtctt caagggcctt caccaacagc aaaaaatctg tcactctaag gaagaaaaca   900

                                                  31/213
              aagagcaaac gctcctag                                                 918
<removed-date>
              <210>   113
              <211>   459
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 113
              atgggtctgg agaagtctct tgtccggctc cttctgcttg tcctgatact gctggtgctg    60
              ggctgggtcc agccttccct gggcaaggaa tcccgggcca agaaattcca gcggcagcat   120
<removed-apn>
              atggactcag acagttcccc cagcagcagc tccacctact gtaaccaaat gatgaggcgc   180
              cggaatatga cacaggggcg gtgcaaacca gtgaacacct ttgtgcacga gcccctggta   240
              gatgtccaga atgtctgttt ccaggaaaag gtcacctgca agaacgggca gggcaactgc   300
              tacaagagca actccagcat gcacatcaca gactgccgcc tgacaaacgg ctccaggtac   360
              cccaactgtg cataccggac cagcccgaag gagagacaca tcattgtggc ctgtgaaggg   420
              agcccatatg tgccagtcca ctttgatgct actgtgtag                          459
              <210>   114
              <211>   1162
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 114
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtaggga atctgcagca cagaagtttc agcggcagca catggatcca   120
              gatggttcct ccatcaacag ccccacctac tgcaaccaaa tgatgaaacg ccgggatatg   180
              acaaatgggt catgcaagcc cgtgaacacc ttcgtgcatg agcccttggc agatgtccag   240
              gccgtctgct cccaggaaaa tgtcacctgc aagaacagga agagcaactg ctacaagagc   300
              agctctgccc tgcacatcac tgactgccac ctgaagggca actccaagta tcccaactgt   360
              gactacaaga ccactcaata ccagaagcac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gaacccctac   420
              gtaccagtcc actttgatgc tactgtgctc gagcccagag gtctcacaat caagccctct   480
              cctccatgca aatgcccagc acctaacctc ttgggtggat catccgtctt catcttccct   540
              ccaaagatca aggatgtact catgatctcc ctgagcccca tggtcacatg tgtggtggtg   600
              gatgtgagcg aggatgaccc agacgtccag atcagctggt ttgtgaacaa cgtggaagta   660

                                                   32/213
<removed-date>
              cacacagctc agacacaaac ccatagagag gattacaaca gtactctccg ggtggtcagt    720
              gccctcccca tccagcacca ggactggatg agtggcaagg agttcaaatg ctcggtcaac    780
              aacaaagacc tcccagcgtc catcgagaga accatctcaa aacccagagg gccagtaaga    840
              gctccacagg tatatgtctt gcctccacca gcagaagaga tgactaagaa agagttcagt    900
              ctgacctgca tgatcacagg cttcttacct gccgaaattg ctgtggactg gaccagcaat    960
              gggcgtacag agcaaaacta caagaacacc gcaacagtcc tggactctga tggttcttac   1020
<removed-apn>
              ttcatgtaca gcaagctcag agtacaaaag agcacttggg aaagaggaag tcttttcgcc   1080
              tgctcagtgg tccacgaggg tctgcacaat caccttacga ctaagagctt ctctcggact   1140
              ccgggtaaat gataatctag aa                                            1162
              <210>   115
              <211>   2004
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221> modified_base
              <222> (1921)..(1921)
              <223> a, c, t, g, unknown or other
              <400> 115
              aagcttgccg ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtaaggaatc ccgggccaag aaattccagc ggcagcatat ggactcagac    120
              agttccccca gcagcagctc cacctactgt aaccaaatga tgaggcgccg gaatatgaca    180
              caggggcggt gcaaaccagt gaacaccttt gtgcacgagc ccctggtaga tgtccagaat    240
              gtctgtttcc aggaaaaggt cacctgcaag aacgggcagg gcaactgcta caagagcaac    300
              tccagcatgc acatcacaga ctgccgcctg acaaacggct ccaggtaccc caactgtgca    360
              taccggacca gcccgaagga gagacacatc attgtggcct gtgaagggag cccatatgtg    420
              ccagtccact ttgatgcttc tgtggaggac tctacagatc tcgagcccaa atcttctgac    480
              aaaactcaca catgtccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc    540
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc    600
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc    660

                                                  33/213
<removed-date>
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt    720
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc    780
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg    840
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggatgagct gaccaagaac    900
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg    960
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac   1020
<removed-apn>
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac   1080
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgagggt ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc   1140
              tctctgtctc cgggtaaagt cgacggtgct agcagccatg tgaatgtgag cagccctagc   1200
              gtgcaggata tcctgaagat cgcagccttc aacatccaga catttgggga gaccaagatg   1260
              tccaatgcca ccctcgtcag ctacattgtg cagatcctga gccgctatga catcgccctg   1320
              gtccaggagg tcagagacag ccacctgact gccgtgggga agctgctgga caacctcaat   1380
              caggatgcac cagacaccta tcactacgtg gtcagtgagc cactgggacg gaacagctat   1440
              aaggagcgct acctgttcgt gtacaggcct gaccaggtgt ctgcggtgga cagctactac   1500
              tacgatgatg gctgcgagcc ctgcgggaac gacaccttca accgagagcc agccattgtc   1560
              aggttcttct cccggttcac agaggtcagg gagtttgcca ttgttcccct gcatgcggcc   1620
              ccgggggacg cagtagccga gatcgacgct ctctatgacg tctacctgga tgtccaagag   1680
              aaatggggct cggaggacgt catgttgatg ggcgacttca atgcgggctg cagctatgtg   1740
              agaccctccc agtggtcatc catccgcctg tggacaagcc ccaccttcca gtggctgatc   1800
              cccgacagcg ctgacaccac agctacaccc acgcactgtg cctatgacag gatcgtggtt   1860
              gcagggatgc tgctccgagg cgccgttgtt cccgactcgg ctcttccctt taacttccag   1920
              nctgcctatg gcctgagtga ccaactggcc caagccatca gtgaccacta tccagtggag   1980
              gtgatgctga agtgataatc taga                                          2004
              <210>   116
              <211>   2004
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide

                                                  34/213
              <400> 116
<removed-date>
              aagcttgccg ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtaaggaatc ccgggccaag aaattccagc ggcagcatat ggactcagac    120
              agttccccca gcagcagctc cacctactgt aaccaaatga tgaggcgccg gaatatgaca    180
              caggggcggt gcaaaccagt gaacaccttt gtgcacgagc ccctggtaga tgtccagaat    240
              gtctgtttcc aggaaaaggt cacctgcaag aacgggcagg gcaactgcta caagagcaac    300
              tccagcatgc acatcacaga ctgccgcctg acaaacggct ccaggtaccc caactgtgca    360
<removed-apn>
              taccggacca gcccgaagga gagacacatc attgtggcct gtgaagggag cccatatgtg    420
              ccagtccact ttgatgcttc tgtggaggac tctacagatc tcgagcccaa atcttctgac    480
              aaaactcaca catgtccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc    540
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc    600
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc    660
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt    720
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc    780
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg    840
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggatgagct gaccaagaac    900
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg    960
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac   1020
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac   1080
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgagggt ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc   1140
              tctctgtctc cgggtaaagt cgacggtgct agcagccatg tgaatgtgag cagccctagc   1200
              gtgcaggata tcctgaagat cgcagccttc aacatccaga catttgggga gaccaagatg   1260
              tccaatgcca ccctcgtcag ctacattgtg cagatcctga gccgctatga catcgccctg   1320
              gtccaggagg tcagagacag ccacctgact gccgtgggga agctgctgga caacctcaat   1380
              caggatgcac cagacaccta tcactacgtg gtcagtgagc cactgggacg gaacagctat   1440
              aaggagcgct acctgttcgt gtacaggcct gaccaggtgt ctgcggtgga cagctactac   1500
              tacgatgatg gctgcgagcc ctgcgggaac gacaccttca accgagagcc attcattgtc   1560
              aggttcttct cccggttcac agaggtcagg gagtttgcca ttgttcccct gcatgcggcc   1620
              ccgggggacg cagtagccga gatcgacgct ctctatgacg tctacctgga tgtccaagag   1680

                                                  35/213
              aaatggggct tagaggacgt catgttgatg ggcgacttca atgcgggctg cagctatgtg   1740
<removed-date>
              agaccctccc agtggtcatc catccgcctg tggacaagcc ccaccttcca gtggctgatc   1800
              cccgacagcg ctgacaccac agctacaccc acgcactgtg cctatgacag gatcgtggtt   1860
              gcagggatgc tgctccgagg cgccgttgtt cccgactcgg ctcttccctt taacttccag   1920
              gctgcctatg gcctgagtga ccaactggcc caagccatca gtgaccacta tccagtggag   1980
              gtgatgctga agtgataatc taga                                          2004
<removed-apn>
              <210>   117
              <211>   2004
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 117
              aagcttgccg ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtaaggaatc ccgggccaag aaattccagc ggcagcatat ggactcagac    120
              agttccccca gcagcagctc cacctactgt aaccaaatga tgaggcgccg gaatatgaca    180
              caggggcggt gcaaaccagt gaacaccttt gtgcacgagc ccctggtaga tgtccagaat    240
              gtctgtttcc aggaaaaggt cacctgcaag aacgggcagg gcaactgcta caagagcaac    300
              tccagcatgc acatcacaga ctgccgcctg acaaacggct ccaggtaccc caactgtgca    360
              taccggacca gcccgaagga gagacacatc attgtggcct gtgaagggag cccatatgtg    420
              ccagtccact ttgatgcttc tgtggaggac tctacagatc tcgagcccaa atcttctgac    480
              aaaactcaca catgtccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc    540
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc    600
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc    660
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt    720
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc    780
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg    840
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggatgagct gaccaagaac    900
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg    960
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac   1020

                                                  36/213
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac   1080
<removed-date>
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgagggt ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc   1140
              tctctgtctc cgggtaaagt cgacggtgct agcagccatg tgaatgtgag cagccctagc   1200
              gtgcaggata tcctgaagat cgcagccttc aacatccaga catttgggga gaccaagatg   1260
              tccaatgcca ccctcgtcag ctacattgtg cagatcctga gccgctatga catcgccctg   1320
              gtccaggagg tcagagacag ccacctgact gccgtgggga agctgctgga caacctcaat   1380
<removed-apn>
              caggatgcac cagacaccta tcactacgtg gtcagtgagc cactgggacg gaacagctat   1440
              aaggagcgct acctgttcgt gtacaggcct gaccaggtgt ctgcggtgga cagctactac   1500
              tacgatgatg gctgcgagcc ctgcgggaac gacaccttca accgagagcc agccattgtc   1560
              aggttcttct cccggttcac agaggtcagg gagtttgcca ttgttcccct gcatgcggcc   1620
              ccgggggacg cagtagccga gatcgacgct ctctatgacg tctacctgga tgtccaagag   1680
              aaatggggct tggaggacgt catgttgatg ggcgacttca atgcgggctg cagctatgtg   1740
              agaccctccc agtggtcatc catccgcctg tggacaagcc ccaccttcca gtggctgatc   1800
              cccgacagcg ctgacaccac agctacaccc acgcactgtg cctatgacag gatcgtggtt   1860
              gcagggatgc tgctccgagg cgccgttgtt cccgactcgg ctcttccctt taacttccag   1920
              gctgcctatg gcctgagtga ccaactggcc caagccatca gtgaccacta tccagtggag   1980
              gtgatgctga aatgataatc taga                                          2004
              <210>   118
              <211>   1569
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 118
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360

                                                  37/213
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcggg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccagccatt    420
<removed-date>
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
<removed-apn>
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct cgagcccaaa tcttctgaca aaactcacac atgtccaccg    900
              tgcccagcac ctgaactcct ggggggaccg tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag    960
              gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac   1020
              gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag   1080
              acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc   1140
              ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc   1200
              ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg   1260
              tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg   1320
              gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag   1380
              aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgctg gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc   1440
              aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg   1500
              catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag aagagcctct ctctgtctcc gggtaaatga   1560
              taatctaga                                                           1569
              <210>   119
              <211>   1569
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 119
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120

                                                  38/213
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
<removed-date>
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcggg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
<removed-apn>
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttagagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct cgagcccaaa tcttctgaca aaactcacac atgtccaccg    900
              tgcccagcac ctgaactcct ggggggaccg tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag    960
              gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac   1020
              gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag   1080
              acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc   1140
              ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc   1200
              ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg   1260
              tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg   1320
              gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag   1380
              aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgctg gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc   1440
              aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg   1500
              catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag aagagcctct ctctgtctcc gggtaaatga   1560
              taatctaga                                                           1569
              <210>   120
              <211>   1641
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>

                                                  39/213
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-date>
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 120
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
<removed-apn>
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct ctccggagga ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga    900
              ggtgggagtg gtggaggtgg ttctaccggt ctcgagccca aatcttctga caaaactcac    960
              acatgtccac cgtgcccagc acctgaactc ctggggggac cgtcagtctt cctcttcccc   1020
              ccaaaaccca aggacaccct catgatctcc cggacccctg aggtcacatg cgtggtggtg   1080
              gacgtgagcc acgaagaccc tgaggtcaag ttcaactggt acgtggacgg cgtggaggtg   1140
              cataatgcca agacaaagcc gcgggaggag cagtacaaca gcacgtaccg tgtggtcagc   1200
              gtcctcaccg tcctgcacca ggactggctg aatggcaagg agtacaagtg caaggtctcc   1260
              aacaaagccc tcccagcccc catcgagaaa accatctcca aagccaaagg gcagccccga   1320
              gaaccacagg tgtacaccct gcccccatcc cgggatgagc tgaccaagaa ccaggtcagc   1380
              ctgacctgcc tggtcaaagg cttctatccc agcgacatcg ccgtggagtg ggagagcaat   1440
              gggcagccgg agaacaacta caagaccacg cctcccgtgc tggactccga cggctccttc   1500
              ttcctctaca gcaagctcac cgtggacaag agcaggtggc agcaggggaa cgtcttctca   1560
              tgctccgtga tgcatgaggc tctgcacaac cactacacgc agaagagcct ctctctgtct   1620

                                                  40/213
<removed-date>
              ccgggtaaat gataatctag a                                             1641
              <210>   121
              <211>   1656
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 121
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct ctccggagga ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga    900
              ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga ggtgggagta ccggtctcga gcccaaatct    960
              tctgacaaaa ctcacacatg tccaccgtgc ccagcacctg aactcctggg gggaccgtca   1020
              gtcttcctct tccccccaaa acccaaggac accctcatga tctcccggac ccctgaggtc   1080
              acatgcgtgg tggtggacgt gagccacgaa gaccctgagg tcaagttcaa ctggtacgtg   1140
              gacggcgtgg aggtgcataa tgccaagaca aagccgcggg aggagcagta caacagcacg   1200
              taccgtgtgg tcagcgtcct caccgtcctg caccaggact ggctgaatgg caaggagtac   1260
              aagtgcaagg tctccaacaa agccctccca gcccccatcg agaaaaccat ctccaaagcc   1320

                                                  41/213
<removed-date>
              aaagggcagc cccgagaacc acaggtgtac accctgcccc catcccggga tgagctgacc   1380
              aagaaccagg tcagcctgac ctgcctggtc aaaggcttct atcccagcga catcgccgtg   1440
              gagtgggaga gcaatgggca gccggagaac aactacaaga ccacgcctcc cgtgctggac   1500
              tccgacggct ccttcttcct ctacagcaag ctcaccgtgg acaagagcag gtggcagcag   1560
              gggaacgtct tctcatgctc cgtgatgcat gaggctctgc acaaccacta cacgcagaag   1620
              agcctctctc tgtctccggg taaatgataa tctaga                             1656
<removed-apn>
              <210>   122
              <211>   1650
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 122
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct ctccggagga ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga    900
              ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga ggtgggagtc tcgagcccaa atcttctgac    960
              aaaactcaca catgtccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc   1020

                                                  42/213
<removed-date>
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc   1080
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc   1140
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt   1200
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc   1260
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg   1320
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggatgagct gaccaagaac   1380
<removed-apn>
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg   1440
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac   1500
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac   1560
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgaggct ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc   1620
              tctctgtctc cgggtaaatg ataatctaga                                    1650
              <210>   123
              <211>   1569
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 123
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720

                                                  43/213
<removed-date>
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct cgagcccaaa tcttctgaca aaactcacac atgtccaccg    900
              tgcccagcac ctgaactcct ggggggaccg tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag    960
              gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac   1020
              gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag   1080
<removed-apn>
              acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc   1140
              ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc   1200
              ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg   1260
              tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg   1320
              gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag   1380
              aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgctg gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc   1440
              aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg   1500
              catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag aagagcctct ctctgtctcc gggtaaatga   1560
              taatctaga                                                           1569
              <210>   124
              <211>   1173
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 124
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtaagga atcccgggcc aagaaattcc agcggcagca tatggactca    120
              gacagttccc ccagcagcag ctccacctac tgtaaccaaa tgatgaggcg ccggaatatg    180
              acacaggggc ggtgcaaacc agtgaacacc tttgtgcacg agcccctggt agatgtccag    240
              aatgtctgtt tccaggaaaa ggtcacctgc aagaacgggc agggcaactg ctacaagagc    300
              aactccagca tgcacatcac agactgccgc ctgacaaacg actccaggta ccccaactgt    360
              gcataccgga ccagcccgaa ggagagacac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gagcccatat    420
              gtgccagtcc actttgatgc ttctgtggag gactctacag atctcgagcc caaatcttct    480

                                                     44/213
<removed-date>
              gacaaaactc acacatgtcc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc    540
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    600
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    660
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    720
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    780
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    840
<removed-apn>
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    900
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    960
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc   1020
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg   1080
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc   1140
              ctctctctgt ctccgggtaa atgataatct aga                                1173
              <210>   125
              <211>   1245
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 125
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtaagga atcccgggcc aagaaattcc agcggcagca tatggactca    120
              gacagttccc ccagcagcag ctccacctac tgtaaccaaa tgatgaggcg ccggaatatg    180
              acacaggggc ggtgcaaacc agtgaacacc tttgtgcacg agcccctggt agatgtccag    240
              aatgtctgtt tccaggaaaa ggtcacctgc aagaacgggc agggcaactg ctacaagagc    300
              aactccagca tgcacatcac agactgccgc ctgacaaacg gctccaggta ccccaactgt    360
              gcataccgga ccagcccgaa ggagagacac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gagcccatat    420
              gtgccagtcc actttgatgc ttctgtggag gactctacag atctctccgg aggaggtggc    480
              tcaggtggtg gaggatctgg aggaggtggg agtggtggag gtggttctac cggtctcgag    540
              cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgcc cagcacctga actcctgggg    600
              ggaccgtcag tcttcctctt ccccccaaaa cccaaggaca ccctcatgat ctcccggacc    660

                                                  45/213
<removed-date>
              cctgaggtca catgcgtggt ggtggacgtg agccacgaag accctgaggt caagttcaac    720
              tggtacgtgg acggcgtgga ggtgcataat gccaagacaa agccgcggga ggagcagtac    780
              aacagcacgt accgtgtggt cagcgtcctc accgtcctgc accaggactg gctgaatggc    840
              aaggagtaca agtgcaaggt ctccaacaaa gccctcccag cccccatcga gaaaaccatc    900
              tccaaagcca aagggcagcc ccgagaacca caggtgtaca ccctgccccc atcccgggat    960
              gagctgacca agaaccaggt cagcctgacc tgcctggtca aaggcttcta tcccagcgac   1020
<removed-apn>
              atcgccgtgg agtgggagag caatgggcag ccggagaaca actacaagac cacgcctccc   1080
              gtgctggact ccgacggctc cttcttcctc tacagcaagc tcaccgtgga caagagcagg   1140
              tggcagcagg ggaacgtctt ctcatgctcc gtgatgcatg aggctctgca caaccactac   1200
              acgcagaaga gcctctctct gtctccgggt aaatgataat ctaga                   1245
              <210>   126
              <211>   1254
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 126
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtaagga atcccgggcc aagaaattcc agcggcagca tatggactca    120
              gacagttccc ccagcagcag ctccacctac tgtaaccaaa tgatgaggcg ccggaatatg    180
              acacaggggc ggtgcaaacc agtgaacacc tttgtgcacg agcccctggt agatgtccag    240
              aatgtctgtt tccaggaaaa ggtcacctgc aagaacgggc agggcaactg ctacaagagc    300
              aactccagca tgcacatcac agactgccgc ctgacaaacg gctccaggta ccccaactgt    360
              gcataccgga ccagcccgaa ggagagacac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gagcccatat    420
              gtgccagtcc actttgatgc ttctgtggag gactctacag atctctccgg aggaggtggc    480
              tcaggtggtg gaggatctgg aggaggtggc tcaggtggtg gaggatctgg aggaggtggg    540
              agtctcgagc ccaaatcttc tgacaaaact cacacatgtc caccgtgccc agcacctgaa    600
              ctcctggggg gaccgtcagt cttcctcttc cccccaaaac ccaaggacac cctcatgatc    660
              tcccggaccc ctgaggtcac atgcgtggtg gtggacgtga gccacgaaga ccctgaggtc    720
              aagttcaact ggtacgtgga cggcgtggag gtgcataatg ccaagacaaa gccgcgggag    780

                                                  46/213
<removed-date>
              gagcagtaca acagcacgta ccgtgtggtc agcgtcctca ccgtcctgca ccaggactgg    840
              ctgaatggca aggagtacaa gtgcaaggtc tccaacaaag ccctcccagc ccccatcgag    900
              aaaaccatct ccaaagccaa agggcagccc cgagaaccac aggtgtacac cctgccccca    960
              tcccgggatg agctgaccaa gaaccaggtc agcctgacct gcctggtcaa aggcttctat   1020
              cccagcgaca tcgccgtgga gtgggagagc aatgggcagc cggagaacaa ctacaagacc   1080
              acgcctcccg tgctggactc cgacggctcc ttcttcctct acagcaagct caccgtggac   1140
<removed-apn>
              aagagcaggt ggcagcaggg gaacgtcttc tcatgctccg tgatgcatga ggctctgcac   1200
              aaccactaca cgcagaagag cctctctctg tctccgggta aatgataatc taga         1254
              <210>   127
              <211>   1173
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 127
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtaagga atcccgggcc aagaaattcc agcggcagca tatggactca    120
              gacagttccc ccagcagcag ctccacctac tgtaaccaaa tgatgaggcg ccggaatatg    180
              acacaggggc ggtgcaaacc agtgaacacc tttgtgcacg agcccctggt agatgtccag    240
              aatgtctgtt tccaggaaaa ggtcacctgc aagaacgggc agggcaactg ctacaagagc    300
              aactccagca tgcacatcac agactgccgc ctgacaaacg gctccaggta ccccaactgt    360
              gcataccgga ccagcccgaa ggagagacac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gagcccatat    420
              gtgccagtcc actttgatgc ttctgtggag gactctacag atctcgagcc caaatcttct    480
              gacaaaactc acacatgtcc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc    540
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    600
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    660
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    720
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    780
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    840
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    900

                                                     47/213
<removed-date>
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    960
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc   1020
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg   1080
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc   1140
              ctctctctgt ctccgggtaa atgataatct aga                                1173
<removed-apn>
              <210>   128
              <211>   945
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 128
              atgggctcac agaccctgcc ccatggtcac atgcagaccc tcatcttctt agacctggaa     60
              gccactggcc tgccttcgtc tcggcccgaa gtcacagagc tgtgcctgct ggctgtccac    120
              agacgtgctc tggagaacac ttccatttct cagggacatc cacctccagt gcccagaccg    180
              ccccgtgtgg tggacaagct ctctctgtgc attgctccag ggaaagcctg tagccctggg    240
              gccagtgaga tcacaggtct gagcaaagct gagctggaag tacaggggcg tcaacgcttc    300
              gatgacaacc tggccatcct gctccgagcc ttcctgcagc gccagccaca gccttgctgc    360
              cttgtggcac acaacggtga ccgctatgac tttcctctgc tccagacaga gcttgctagg    420
              ctgagcactc ccagtcccct agatggtacc ttctgtgtgg acagcatcgc tgccctaaag    480
              gccttggaac aagctagcag cccctcaggg aatggttcga ggaaaagcta cagcctgggc    540
              agcatctaca cccgcctgta ctggcaagca ccgacagact cacatactgc tgaaggtgat    600
              gttctaaccc tgctcagcat ctgtcagtgg aagccacagg ccctactgca gtgggtggac    660
              gaacatgccc ggccctttag caccgtcaag cccatgtacg gcactccggc taccactgga    720
              acaaccaacc taaggccaca tgctgccaca gctactacac ccctggccac agccaatgga    780
              agtcccagca atggcaggag caggcgacct aagagtcctc ctccagagaa ggtcccagaa    840
              gccccatcac aggaggggct gctggcccca ctgagcctgc tgaccctcct gaccttggca    900
              atagccactc tgtatggact cttcctggcc tcacctgggc agtaa                    945
              <210> 129
              <211> 735

                                                  48/213
              <212> DNA
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 129
              atgggctcac agaccctgcc ccatggtcac atgcagaccc tcatcttctt agacctggaa    60
              gccactggcc tgccttcgtc tcggcccgaa gtcacagagc tgtgcctgct ggctgtccac   120
<removed-apn>
              agacgtgctc tggagaacac ttccatttct cagggacatc cacctccagt gcccagaccg   180
              ccccgtgtgg tggacaagct ctctctgtgc attgctccag ggaaagcctg tagccctggg   240
              gccagtgaga tcacaggtct gagcaaagct gagctggaag tacaggggcg tcaacgcttc   300
              gatgacaacc tggccatcct gctccgagcc ttcctgcagc gccagccaca gccttgctgc   360
              cttgtggcac acaacggtga ccgctatgac tttcctctgc tccagacaga gcttgctagg   420
              ctgagcactc ccagtcccct agatggtacc ttctgtgtgg acagcatcgc tgccctaaag   480
              gccttggaac aagctagcag cccctcaggg aatggttcga ggaaaagcta cagcctgggc   540
              agcatctaca cccgcctgta ctggcaagca ccgacagact cacatactgc tgaaggtgat   600
              gttctaaccc tgctcagcat ctgtcagtgg aagccacagg ccctactgca gtgggtggac   660
              gaacatgccc ggccctttag caccgtcaag cccatgtacg gcactccggc taccactgga   720
              acaacagatc tcgag                                                    735
              <210>   130
              <211>   1593
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 130
              aagcttgcca ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca    60
              gataccaccg gtatgggctc acagaccctg ccccatggtc acatgcagac cctcatcttc   120
              ttagacctgg aagccactgg cctgccttcg tctcggcccg aagtcacaga gctgtgcctg   180
              ctggctgtcc acagacgtgc tctggagaac acttccattt ctcagggaca tccacctcca   240
              gtgcccagac cgccccgtgt ggtggacaag ctctctctgt gcattgctcc agggaaagcc   300
              tgtagccctg gggccagtga gatcacaggt ctgagcaaag ctgagctgga agtacagggg   360

                                                     49/213
              cgtcaacgct tcgatgacaa cctggccatc ctgctccgag ccttcctgca gcgccagcca    420
<removed-date>
              cagccttgct gccttgtggc acacaacggt gaccgctatg actttcctct gctccagaca    480
              gagcttgcta ggctgagcac tcccagtccc ctagatggta ccttctgtgt ggacagcatc    540
              gctgccctaa aggccttgga acaagctagc agcccctcag ggaatggttc gaggaaaagc    600
              tacagcctgg gcagcatcta cacccgcctg tactggcaag caccgacaga ctcacatact    660
              gctgaaggtg atgttctaac cctgctcagc atctgtcagt ggaagccaca ggccctactg    720
<removed-apn>
              cagtgggtgg acgaacatgc ccggcccttt agcaccgtca agcccatgta cggcactccg    780
              gctaccactg gaacaacaga tctctccgga ggaggtggct caggtggtgg aggatctgga    840
              ggaggtggct cagggagtgg tggaggtggt tctaccggtc tcgagcccag aggtcccaca    900
              atcaagccct ctcctccatg caaatgccca gcacctaacc tcttgggtgg atcatccgtc    960
              ttcatcttcc ctccaaagat caaggatgta ctcatgatct ccctgagccc catggtcaca   1020
              tgtgtggtgg tggatgtgag cgaggatgac ccagacgtcc agatcagctg gtttgtgaac   1080
              aacgtggaag tacacacagc tcagacacaa acccatagag aggattacaa cagtactctc   1140
              cgggtggtca gtgccctccc catccagcac caggactgga tgagtggcaa ggagttcaaa   1200
              tgctcggtca acaacaaaga cctcccagcg tccatcgaga gaaccatctc aaaacccaga   1260
              gggccagtaa gagctccaca ggtatatgtc ttgcctccac cagcagaaga gatgactaag   1320
              aaagagttca gtctgacctg catgatcaca ggcttcttac ctgccgaaat tgctgtggac   1380
              tggaccagca atgggcgtac agagcaaaac tacaagaaca ccgcaacagt cctggactct   1440
              gatggttctt acttcatgta cagcaagctc agagtacaaa agagcacttg ggaaagagga   1500
              agtcttttcg cctgctcagt ggtccacgag ggtctgcaca atcaccttac gactaagagc   1560
              ttctctcgga ctccgggtaa atgataatct aga                                1593
              <210>   131
              <211>   1596
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 131
              aagcttgcca ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtatgggctc acagaccctg ccccatggtc acatgcagac cctcatcttc    120

                                                  50/213
              ttagacctgg aagccactgg cctgccttcg tctcggcccg aagtcacaga gctgtgcctg    180
<removed-date>
              ctggctgtcc acagacgtgc tctggagaac acttccattt ctcagggaca tccacctcca    240
              gtgcccagac cgccccgtgt ggtggacaag ctctctctgt gcattgctcc agggaaagcc    300
              tgtagccctg gggccagtga gatcacaggt ctgagcaaag ctgagctgga agtacagggg    360
              cgtcaacgct tcgatgacaa cctggccatc ctgctccgag ccttcctgca gcgccagcca    420
              cagccttgct gccttgtggc acacaacggt gaccgctatg actttcctct gctccagaca    480
<removed-apn>
              gagcttgcta ggctgagcac tcccagtccc ctagatggta ccttctgtgt ggacagcatc    540
              gctgccctaa aggccttgga acaagctagc agcccctcag ggaatggttc gaggaaaagc    600
              tacagcctgg gcagcatcta cacccgcctg tactggcaag caccgacaga ctcacatact    660
              gctgaaggtg atgttctaac cctgctcagc atctgtcagt ggaagccaca ggccctactg    720
              cagtgggtgg acgaacatgc ccggcccttt agcaccgtca agcccatgta cggcactccg    780
              gctaccactg gaacaacaga tctctccgga ggaggtggct caggtggtgg aggatctgga    840
              ggaggtggct caggtggtgg aggatctgga ggaggtggga gtctcgagcc cagaggtccc    900
              acaatcaagc cctctcctcc atgcaaatgc ccagcaccta acctcttggg tggatcatcc    960
              gtcttcatct tccctccaaa gatcaaggat gtactcatga tctccctgag ccccatggtc   1020
              acatgtgtgg tggtggatgt gagcgaggat gacccagacg tccagatcag ctggtttgtg   1080
              aacaacgtgg aagtacacac agctcagaca caaacccata gagaggatta caacagtact   1140
              ctccgggtgg tcagtgccct ccccatccag caccaggact ggatgagtgg caaggagttc   1200
              aaatgctcgg tcaacaacaa agacctccca gcgtccatcg agagaaccat ctcaaaaccc   1260
              agagggccag taagagctcc acaggtatat gtcttgcctc caccagcaga agagatgact   1320
              aagaaagagt tcagtctgac ctgcatgatc acaggcttct tacctgccga aattgctgtg   1380
              gactggacca gcaatgggcg tacagagcaa aactacaaga acaccgcaac agtcctggac   1440
              tctgatggtt cttacttcat gtacagcaag ctcagagtac aaaagagcac ttgggaaaga   1500
              ggaagtcttt tcgcctgctc agtggtccac gagggtctgc acaatcacct tacgactaag   1560
              agcttctctc ggactccggg taaatgataa tctaga                             1596
              <210>   132
              <211>   57
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>

                                                  51/213
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-date>
                    oligonucleotide
              <400> 132
              gtcgacggcg cggccgccag ccccgtgaac gtgagcagcc ccagcgtgca ggatatc        57
              <210>   133
              <211>   2328
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 133
              aagcttgcca ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtatgggctc acagaccctg ccccatggtc acatgcagac cctcatcttc    120
              ttagacctgg aagccactgg cctgccttcg tctcggcccg aagtcacaga gctgtgcctg    180
              ctggctgtcc acagacgtgc tctggagaac acttccattt ctcagggaca tccacctcca    240
              gtgcccagac cgccccgtgt ggtggacaag ctctctctgt gcattgctcc agggaaagcc    300
              tgtagccctg gggccagtga gatcacaggt ctgagcaaag ctgagctgga agtacagggg    360
              cgtcaacgct tcgatgacaa cctggccatc ctgctccgag ccttcctgca gcgccagcca    420
              cagccttgct gccttgtggc acacaacggt gaccgctatg actttcctct gctccagaca    480
              gagcttgcta ggctgagcac tcccagtccc ctagatggta ccttctgtgt ggacagcatc    540
              gctgccctaa aggccttgga acaagctagc agcccctcag ggaatggttc gaggaaaagc    600
              tacagcctgg gcagcatcta cacccgcctg tactggcaag caccgacaga ctcacatact    660
              gctgaaggtg atgttctaac cctgctcagc atctgtcagt ggaagccaca ggccctactg    720
              cagtgggtgg acgaacatgc ccggcccttt agcaccgtca agcccatgta cggcactccg    780
              gctaccactg gaacaacaga tctcatgggc tcacagaccc tgccccatgg tcacatgcag    840
              accctcatct tcttagacct ggaagccact ggcctgcctt cgtctcggcc cgaagtcaca    900
              gagctgtgcc tgctggctgt ccacagacgt gctctggaga acacttccat ttctcaggga    960
              catccacctc cagtgcccag accgccccgt gtggtggaca agctctctct gtgcattgct   1020
              ccagggaaag cctgtagccc tggggccagt gagatcacag gtctgagcaa agctgagctg   1080
              gaagtacagg ggcgtcaacg cttcgatgac aacctggcca tcctgctccg agccttcctg   1140
              cagcgccagc cacagccttg ctgccttgtg gcacacaacg gtgaccgcta tgactttcct   1200

                                                  52/213
              ctgctccaga cagagcttgc taggctgagc actcccagtc ccctagatgg taccttctgt   1260
<removed-date>
              gtggacagca tcgctgccct aaaggccttg gaacaagcta gcagcccctc agggaatggt   1320
              tcgaggaaaa gctacagcct gggcagcatc tacacccgcc tgtactggca agcaccgaca   1380
              gactcacata ctgctgaagg tgatgttcta accctgctca gcatctgtca gtggaagcca   1440
              caggccctac tgcagtgggt ggacgaacat gcccggccct ttagcaccgt caagcccatg   1500
              tacggcactc cggctaccac tggaacaaca gatctctccg gaggaggtgg ctcaggtggt   1560
<removed-apn>
              ggaggatctg gaggaggtgg ctcaggtggt ggaggatctg gaggaggtgg gagtctcgag   1620
              cccagaggtc ccacaatcaa gccctctcct ccatgcaaat gcccagcacc taacctcttg   1680
              ggtggatcat ccgtcttcat cttccctcca aagatcaagg atgtactcat gatctccctg   1740
              agccccatgg tcacatgtgt ggtggtggat gtgagcgagg atgacccaga cgtccagatc   1800
              agctggtttg tgaacaacgt ggaagtacac acagctcaga cacaaaccca tagagaggat   1860
              tacaacagta ctctccgggt ggtcagtgcc ctccccatcc agcaccagga ctggatgagt   1920
              ggcaaggagt tcaaatgctc ggtcaacaac aaagacctcc cagcgtccat cgagagaacc   1980
              atctcaaaac ccagagggcc agtaagagct ccacaggtat atgtcttgcc tccaccagca   2040
              gaagagatga ctaagaaaga gttcagtctg acctgcatga tcacaggctt cttacctgcc   2100
              gaaattgctg tggactggac cagcaatggg cgtacagagc aaaactacaa gaacaccgca   2160
              acagtcctgg actctgatgg ttcttacttc atgtacagca agctcagagt acaaaagagc   2220
              acttgggaaa gaggaagtct tttcgcctgc tcagtggtcc acgagggtct gcacaatcac   2280
              cttacgacta agagcttctc tcggactccg ggtaaatgat aatctaga                2328
              <210>   134
              <211>   1749
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 134
              aagcttgcca ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtatgggccc tggagctcgc agacagggca ggattgtgca gggaaggcct    120
              gagatgtgct tctgcccacc ccctacccca ctccctcccc ttcggatctt aacactgggc    180
              actcacacac ccaccccatg ctcctctcca ggctcagcag caggtacgta cccaaccatg    240

                                                  53/213
              ggctcgcagg ccctgccccc ggggcccatg cagaccctca tctttttcga catggaggcc    300
<removed-date>
              actggcttgc ccttctccca gcccaaggtc acggagctgt gcctgctggc tgtccacaga    360
              tgtgccctgg agagcccccc cacctctcag gggccacctc ccacagttcc tccaccaccg    420
              cgtgtggtag acaagctctc cctgtgtgtg gctccgggga aggcctgcag ccctgcagcc    480
              agcgagatca caggtctgag cacagctgtg ctggcagcgc atgggcgtca atgttttgat    540
              gacaacctgg ccaacctgct cctagccttc ctgcggcgcc agccacagcc ctggtgcctg    600
<removed-apn>
              gtggcacaca atggtgaccg ctacgacttc cccctgctcc aagcagagct ggctatgctg    660
              ggcctcacca gtgctctgga tggtgccttc tgtgtggata gcatcactgc gctgaaggcc    720
              ctggagcgag caagcagccc ctcagaacac ggcccaagga agagctacag cctaggcagc    780
              atctacactc gcctgtatgg gcagtcccct ccagactcgc acacggctga gggtgatgtc    840
              ctggccctgc tcagcatctg tcagtggaga ccacaggccc tgctgcggtg ggtggatgct    900
              cacgccaggc ctttcggcac catcaggccc atgtatgggg tcacagcctc tgctaggacc    960
              aaagatctct ccggaggagg tggctcaggt ggtggaggat ctggaggagg tgggagtggt   1020
              ggaggtggtt ctaccggtct cgagcccaaa tcttctgaca aaactcacac atgtccaccg   1080
              tgcccagcac ctgaactcct ggggggaccg tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag   1140
              gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac   1200
              gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag   1260
              acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc   1320
              ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc   1380
              ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg   1440
              tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg   1500
              gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag   1560
              aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgctg gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc   1620
              aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg   1680
              catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag aagagcctct ctctgtctcc gggtaaatga   1740
              taatctaga                                                           1749
              <210>   135
              <211>   1758
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                  54/213
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 135
              aagcttgcca ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtatgggccc tggagctcgc agacagggca ggattgtgca gggaaggcct    120
              gagatgtgct tctgcccacc ccctacccca ctccctcccc ttcggatctt aacactgggc    180
<removed-apn>
              actcacacac ccaccccatg ctcctctcca ggctcagcag caggtacgta cccaaccatg    240
              ggctcgcagg ccctgccccc ggggcccatg cagaccctca tctttttcga catggaggcc    300
              actggcttgc ccttctccca gcccaaggtc acggagctgt gcctgctggc tgtccacaga    360
              tgtgccctgg agagcccccc cacctctcag gggccacctc ccacagttcc tccaccaccg    420
              cgtgtggtag acaagctctc cctgtgtgtg gctccgggga aggcctgcag ccctgcagcc    480
              agcgagatca caggtctgag cacagctgtg ctggcagcgc atgggcgtca atgttttgat    540
              gacaacctgg ccaacctgct cctagccttc ctgcggcgcc agccacagcc ctggtgcctg    600
              gtggcacaca atggtgaccg ctacgacttc cccctgctcc aagcagagct ggctatgctg    660
              ggcctcacca gtgctctgga tggtgccttc tgtgtggata gcatcactgc gctgaaggcc    720
              ctggagcgag caagcagccc ctcagaacac ggcccaagga agagctacag cctaggcagc    780
              atctacactc gcctgtatgg gcagtcccct ccagactcgc acacggctga gggtgatgtc    840
              ctggccctgc tcagcatctg tcagtggaga ccacaggccc tgctgcggtg ggtggatgct    900
              cacgccaggc ctttcggcac catcaggccc atgtatgggg tcacagcctc tgctaggacc    960
              aaagatctct ccggaggagg tggctcaggt ggtggaggat ctggaggagg tggctcaggt   1020
              ggtggaggat ctggaggagg tgggagtctc gagcccaaat cttctgacaa aactcacaca   1080
              tgtccaccgt gcccagcacc tgaactcctg gggggaccgt cagtcttcct cttcccccca   1140
              aaacccaagg acaccctcat gatctcccgg acccctgagg tcacatgcgt ggtggtggac   1200
              gtgagccacg aagaccctga ggtcaagttc aactggtacg tggacggcgt ggaggtgcat   1260
              aatgccaaga caaagccgcg ggaggagcag tacaacagca cgtaccgtgt ggtcagcgtc   1320
              ctcaccgtcc tgcaccagga ctggctgaat ggcaaggagt acaagtgcaa ggtctccaac   1380
              aaagccctcc cagcccccat cgagaaaacc atctccaaag ccaaagggca gccccgagaa   1440
              ccacaggtgt acaccctgcc cccatcccgg gatgagctga ccaagaacca ggtcagcctg   1500
              acctgcctgg tcaaaggctt ctatcccagc gacatcgccg tggagtggga gagcaatggg   1560

                                                  55/213
<removed-date>
              cagccggaga acaactacaa gaccacgcct cccgtgctgg actccgacgg ctccttcttc   1620
              ctctacagca agctcaccgt ggacaagagc aggtggcagc aggggaacgt cttctcatgc   1680
              tccgtgatgc atgaggctct gcacaaccac tacacgcaga agagcctctc tctgtctccg   1740
              ggtaaatgat aatctaga                                                 1758
              <210>   136
              <211>   20
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 136
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20
              <210>   137
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 137
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   138
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 138
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly

                                                  56/213
              1                 5                 10                  15
<removed-date>
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   139
              <211>   260
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 139
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                  57/213
              Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser
<removed-date>
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys
                          260
              <210>   140
              <211>   260
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 140
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser
                              85                  90                  95

                                                  58/213
<removed-date>
              Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Glu Pro Ala Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys
                          260
              <210>   141
              <211>   260
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 141
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr
              1               5                   10                  15

                                                  59/213
<removed-date>
              Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240

                                                  60/213
<removed-date>
              Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys
                          260
              <210>   142
              <211>   260
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 142
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr 1         5
              10                  15
              Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Glu Pro Ala Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                  61/213
<removed-date>
              Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys
                          260
              <210>   143
              <211>   260
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 143
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser

                                                  62/213
                                85                90                  95
<removed-date>
              Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Glu Pro Ala Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala
<removed-apn>
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys
                          260
              <210>   144
              <211>   260
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 144

                                                  63/213
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr
<removed-date>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala

                                                  64/213
              225                    230              235                   240
<removed-date>
              Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys
                          260
              <210>   145
<removed-apn>
              <211>   233
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 145
              Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                  65/213
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
<removed-date>
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
              225                 230
              <210>   146
              <211>   128
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 146
              Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg
                          20                  25                    30
              Gln His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Phe Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Asp Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile
                      115                 120                 125

                                                  66/213
<removed-date>
              Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala
              Ser Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
              <210>   147
              <211>   280
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 147
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Ala Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                  67/213
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
<removed-date>
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys
                      275                 280
              <210>   148
              <211>   305
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 148
              Met Ser Arg Glu Leu Ala Pro Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Ser Ile His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Ala Leu Ala Met Arg Ile Cys Ser Phe Asn Val Arg Ser Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Ser Lys Gln Glu Asp Lys Asn Ala Met Asp Val Ile Val Lys Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Lys Arg Cys Asp Ile Ile Leu Val Met Glu Ile Lys Asp Ser Asn
                  50                  55                  60

                                                  68/213
<removed-date>
              Asn Arg Ile Cys Pro Ile Leu Met Glu Lys Leu Asn Arg Asn Ser Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Gly Ile Thr Tyr Asn Tyr Val Ile Ser Ser Arg Leu Gly Arg Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Tyr Lys Glu Gln Tyr Ala Phe Leu Tyr Lys Glu Lys Leu Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Val Lys Arg Ser Tyr His Tyr His Asp Tyr Gln Asp Gly Asp Ala Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Phe Ser Arg Glu Pro Phe Val Val Trp Phe Gln Ser Pro His Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Val Lys Asp Phe Val Ile Ile Pro Leu His Thr Thr Pro Glu Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Val Lys Glu Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Glu Val Tyr Thr Asp Val Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              His Arg Trp Lys Ala Glu Asn Phe Ile Phe Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val Pro Lys Lys Ala Trp Lys Asn Ile Arg Leu Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Asp Pro Arg Phe Val Trp Leu Ile Gly Asp Gln Glu Asp Thr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Lys Lys Ser Thr Asn Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Leu Arg Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Glu Ile Val Ser Ser Val Val Pro Lys Ser Asn Ser Val Phe Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Lys Leu Thr Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu Asp Val Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp His Phe Pro Val Glu Phe Lys Leu Gln Ser Ser Arg Ala Phe Thr
                      275                 280                 285

                                                  69/213
              Asn Ser Lys Lys Ser Val Thr Leu Arg Lys Lys Thr Lys Ser Lys Arg
<removed-date>
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser
              305
              <210>   149
              <211>   156
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
<removed-apn>
              <400> 149
              Met Gly Leu Glu Lys Ser Leu Val Arg Leu Leu Leu Leu Val Leu Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Leu Val Leu Gly Trp Val Gln Pro Ser Leu Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
              145                 150                    155
              <210> 150
              <211> 378
              <212> PRT

                                                  70/213
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 150
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Arg Glu Ser Ala Ala Gln Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Pro Asp Gly Ser Ser Ile Asn Ser Pro Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Lys Arg Arg Asp Met Thr Asn Gly Ser Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Ala Asp Val Gln Ala Val Cys Ser Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asn Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Arg Lys Ser Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ala Leu His Ile Thr Asp Cys His Leu Lys Gly Asn Ser Lys Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Asp Tyr Lys Thr Thr Gln Tyr Gln Lys His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Asn Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Thr Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Leu Thr Ile Lys Pro Ser Pro Pro Cys Lys Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met Ile Ser Leu Ser Pro Met Val Thr Cys
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu Asp Asp Pro Asp Val Gln Ile Ser Trp
                      195                 200                 205

                                                  71/213
<removed-date>
              Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val His Thr Ala Gln Thr Gln Thr His Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Glu Asp Tyr Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg Val Val Ser Ala Leu Pro Ile Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly Lys Glu Phe Lys Cys Ser Val Asn Asn
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys Pro Arg Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Val Arg Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr Val Leu Pro Pro Pro Ala Glu Glu
                      275                 280                 285
              Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu Thr Cys Met Ile Thr Gly Phe Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp Trp Thr Ser Asn Gly Arg Thr Glu Gln
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asn Tyr Lys Asn Thr Ala Thr Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Tyr Phe
                              325                 330                 335
              Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val Gln Lys Ser Thr Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val His Glu Gly Leu His Asn His Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Thr Lys Ser Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro Gly Lys
                  370                 375
              <210>   151
              <211>   659
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 151
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro

                                                  72/213
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-date>
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240

                                                  73/213
<removed-date>
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                      275                 280                 285
<removed-apn>
              Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu His
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr Lys Met
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser Arg Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr Ala Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr Tyr His
                  450                 455                 460

                                                  74/213
<removed-date>
              Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu Arg Tyr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser Tyr Tyr
                              485                 490                 495
              Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn Arg Glu
                          500                 505                 510
<removed-apn>
              Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg Glu Phe
                      515                 520                 525
              Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala Glu Ile
                  530                 535                 540
              Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp Gly Ser
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val
                              565                 570                 575
              Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro Thr Phe
                          580                 585                 590
              Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro Thr His
                      595                 600                 605
              Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg Gly Ala
                  610                 615                 620
              Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala Tyr Gly
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro Val Glu
                              645                 650                 655
              Val Met Leu Lys
              <210>   152
              <211>   659
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                  75/213
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 152
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                      195                 200                 205

                                                  76/213
<removed-date>
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu His
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr Lys Met
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser Arg Tyr
                          420                 425                 430

                                                  77/213
              Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr Ala Val
<removed-date>
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr Tyr His
                  450                 455                 460
              Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu Arg Tyr
              465                 470                 475                 480
<removed-apn>
              Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser Tyr Tyr
                              485                 490                 495
              Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn Arg Glu
                          500                 505                 510
              Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg Glu Phe
                      515                 520                 525
              Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala Glu Ile
                  530                 535                 540
              Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp Gly Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val
                              565                 570                 575
              Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro Thr Phe
                          580                 585                 590
              Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro Thr His
                      595                 600                 605
              Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg Gly Ala
                  610                 615                 620
              Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala Tyr Gly
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro Val Glu
                              645                 650                 655
              Val Met Leu Lys

                                                  78/213
<removed-date>
              <210>   153
              <211>   658
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 153
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                              165                 170                 175

                                                  79/213
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
<removed-date>
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu His
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr Lys Met

                                                  80/213
                              405                 410                 415
<removed-date>
              Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser Arg Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr Ala Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr Tyr His
<removed-apn>
                  450                 455                 460
              Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu Arg Tyr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser Tyr Tyr
                              485                 490                 495
              Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn Arg Glu
                          500                 505                 510
              Pro Ala Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg Glu Phe
                      515                 520                 525
              Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala Glu Ile
                  530                 535                 540
              Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp Gly Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val
                              565                 570                 575
              Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro Thr Phe
                          580                 585                 590
              Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro Thr His
                      595                 600                 605
              Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg Gly Ala
                  610                 615                 620
              Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Ala Ala Tyr Gly
              625                 630                 635                 640

                                                  81/213
<removed-date>
              Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro Val Glu
                              645                 650                 655
              Val Met Leu Lys
              <210>   154
              <211>   513
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 154
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Ala Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala

                                                  82/213
              145                 150                 155                   160
<removed-date>
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
                          340                 345                 350
              Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
                  370                 375                 380

                                                  83/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
                  450                 455                 460
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
                              485                 490                 495
              Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Lys
              <210>   155
              <211>   513
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 155
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile

                                                  84/213
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-date>
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270

                                                  85/213
<removed-date>
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
                          340                 345                 350
              Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
                  450                 455                 460
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
                              485                 490                 495

                                                  86/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Lys
              <210>   156
              <211>   533
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 156
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                  87/213
<removed-date>
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
                      355                 360                 365
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                  370                 375                 380

                                                  88/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                              405                 410                 415
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                  450                 455                 460
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
                          500                 505                 510
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
                      515                 520                 525
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                  530
              <210>   157
              <211>   538
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 157
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30

                                                  89/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255

                                                  90/213
<removed-date>
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val
                              325                 330                 335
              Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile
                          420                 425                 430
              Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480

                                                  91/213
              Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser
<removed-date>
                              485                 490                 495
              Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg
                          500                 505                 510
              Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu
                      515                 520                 525
<removed-apn>
              His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                  530                 535
              <210>   158
              <211>   538
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 158
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125

                                                  92/213
<removed-date>
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                          340                 345                 350

                                                  93/213
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys
<removed-date>
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
<removed-apn>
              Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
                              485                 490                 495
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                          500                 505                 510
              Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn
                      515                 520                 525
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                  530                 535
              <210>   159
              <211>   513
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide

                                                  94/213
              <400> 159
<removed-date>
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220

                                                  95/213
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
<removed-date>
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
                          340                 345                 350
              Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val

                                                  96/213
                  450                   455                460
<removed-date>
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
                              485                 490                 495
              Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
<removed-apn>
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Lys
              <210>   160
              <211>   381
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 160
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Asp Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110

                                                  97/213
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
<removed-date>
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp

                                                    98/213
                            340               345                   350
<removed-date>
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              <210>   161
<removed-apn>
              <211>   401
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 161
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140

                                                  99/213
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155                   160
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys

                                                 100/213
                  370                   375               380
<removed-date>
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
              <210>   162
<removed-apn>
              <211>   406
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 162
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140

                                                 101/213
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His
                          260                 265                 270
              Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro
                              325                 330                 335
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn
                          340                 345                 350
              Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu
                      355                 360                 365
              Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val

                                                    102/213
                  370                   375               380
<removed-date>
              Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              405
              <210>   163
<removed-apn>
              <211>   381
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 163
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140

                                                 103/213
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys

                                                 104/213
                  370                   375               380
<removed-date>
              <210>   164
              <211>   314
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 164
              Met Gly Ser Gln Thr Leu Pro His Gly His Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Asp Leu Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Ser Ser Arg Pro Glu Val Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Arg Ala Leu Glu Asn Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Ser Gln Gly His Pro Pro Pro Val Pro Arg Pro Pro Arg Val Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Ile Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Glu Val Gln Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Gln Arg Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Ile Leu Leu Arg Ala Phe Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Gln Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Cys Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Thr Glu Leu Ala Arg Leu Ser Thr Pro
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Pro Leu Asp Gly Thr Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Ala Ala Leu Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Leu Glu Gln Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Gly Asn Gly Ser Arg Lys Ser
                              165                 170                 175

                                                 105/213
              Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Trp Gln Ala Pro Thr
<removed-date>
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Thr Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Trp Lys Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Gln Trp Val Asp Glu His Ala Arg
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Pro Phe Ser Thr Val Lys Pro Met Tyr Gly Thr Pro Ala Thr Thr Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Thr Asn Leu Arg Pro His Ala Ala Thr Ala Thr Thr Pro Leu Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Ala Asn Gly Ser Pro Ser Asn Gly Arg Ser Arg Arg Pro Lys Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Pro Pro Glu Lys Val Pro Glu Ala Pro Ser Gln Glu Gly Leu Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Pro Leu Ser Leu Leu Thr Leu Leu Thr Leu Ala Ile Ala Thr Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Tyr Gly Leu Phe Leu Ala Ser Pro Gly Gln
              305                 310
              <210>   165
              <211>   245
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus sp.
              <400> 165
              Met Gly Ser Gln Thr Leu Pro His Gly His Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Asp Leu Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Ser Ser Arg Pro Glu Val Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Arg Ala Leu Glu Asn Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Ser Gln Gly His Pro Pro Pro Val Pro Arg Pro Pro Arg Val Val
                  50                  55                  60

                                                 106/213
<removed-date>
              Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Ile Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Glu Val Gln Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Gln Arg Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Ile Leu Leu Arg Ala Phe Leu
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Gln Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Cys Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Thr Glu Leu Ala Arg Leu Ser Thr Pro
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Pro Leu Asp Gly Thr Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Ala Ala Leu Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Leu Glu Gln Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Gly Asn Gly Ser Arg Lys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Trp Gln Ala Pro Thr
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Thr Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Trp Lys Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Gln Trp Val Asp Glu His Ala Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Phe Ser Thr Val Lys Pro Met Tyr Gly Thr Pro Ala Thr Thr Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Thr Asp Leu Glu
                              245
              <210>   166
              <211>   516
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide

                                                 107/213
<removed-date>
              <400> 166
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Gly Ser Gln Thr Leu Pro His Gly His Met Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Leu Ile Phe Leu Asp Leu Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Ser Ser Arg
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Pro Glu Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Arg Ala Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Asn Thr Ser Ile Ser Gln Gly His Pro Pro Pro Val Pro Arg Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Ile Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Ser Pro Gly Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Val Gln Gly Arg Gln Arg Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Ile Leu Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Ala Phe Leu Gln Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Cys Cys Leu Val Ala His
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Thr Glu Leu Ala Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Ser Thr Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Gly Thr Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Gln Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Gly Asn Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Trp
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Ala Pro Thr Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Thr Leu
                  210                 215                 220

                                                 108/213
<removed-date>
              Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Lys Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Gln Trp Val Asp
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Glu His Ala Arg Pro Phe Ser Thr Val Lys Pro Met Tyr Gly Thr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Thr Thr Gly Thr Thr Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Gly Pro Thr Ile Lys Pro Ser Pro Pro Cys Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro
                  290                 295                 300
              Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Lys Ile Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asp Val Leu Met Ile Ser Leu Ser Pro Met Val Thr Cys Val Val Val
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Val Ser Glu Asp Asp Pro Asp Val Gln Ile Ser Trp Phe Val Asn
                          340                 345                 350
              Asn Val Glu Val His Thr Ala Gln Thr Gln Thr His Arg Glu Asp Tyr
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg Val Val Ser Ala Leu Pro Ile Gln His Gln Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Trp Met Ser Gly Lys Glu Phe Lys Cys Ser Val Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys Pro Arg Gly Pro Val Arg
                              405                 410                 415
              Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr Val Leu Pro Pro Pro Ala Glu Glu Met Thr Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu Thr Cys Met Ile Thr Gly Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu
                      435                 440                 445

                                                 109/213
              Ile Ala Val Asp Trp Thr Ser Asn Gly Arg Thr Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys
<removed-date>
                  450                 455                 460
              Asn Thr Ala Thr Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Tyr Phe Met Tyr Ser
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Lys Leu Arg Val Gln Lys Ser Thr Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala
                              485                 490                 495
<removed-apn>
              Cys Ser Val Val His Glu Gly Leu His Asn His Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser
                          500                 505                 510
              Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro Gly Lys
                      515
              <210>   167
              <211>   521
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 167
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Gly Ser Gln Thr Leu Pro His Gly His Met Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Leu Ile Phe Leu Asp Leu Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Ser Ser Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Glu Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Arg Ala Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Asn Thr Ser Ile Ser Gln Gly His Pro Pro Pro Val Pro Arg Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Ile Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Ser Pro Gly Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110

                                                 110/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Val Gln Gly Arg Gln Arg Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Ile Leu Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Ala Phe Leu Gln Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Cys Cys Leu Val Ala His
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Thr Glu Leu Ala Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ser Thr Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Gly Thr Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Gln Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Gly Asn Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Trp
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Ala Pro Thr Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Thr Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Lys Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Gln Trp Val Asp
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Glu His Ala Arg Pro Phe Ser Thr Val Lys Pro Met Tyr Gly Thr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Thr Thr Gly Thr Thr Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Pro Thr Ile Lys Pro Ser Pro Pro Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Ile Phe
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Pro Pro Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met Ile Ser Leu Ser Pro Met Val
                              325                 330                 335

                                                 111/213
              Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu Asp Asp Pro Asp Val Gln Ile
<removed-date>
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Trp Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val His Thr Ala Gln Thr Gln Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              His Arg Glu Asp Tyr Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg Val Val Ser Ala Leu Pro
                  370                 375                 380
<removed-apn>
              Ile Gln His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly Lys Glu Phe Lys Cys Ser Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys Pro
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Gly Pro Val Arg Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr Val Leu Pro Pro Pro Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu Thr Cys Met Ile Thr Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp Trp Thr Ser Asn Gly Arg Thr
                  450                 455                 460
              Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys Asn Thr Ala Thr Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Tyr Phe Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val Gln Lys Ser Thr Trp Glu Arg
                              485                 490                 495
              Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val His Glu Gly Leu His Asn His
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro Gly Lys
                      515                 520
              <210>   168
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide

                                                 112/213
              <400> 168
<removed-date>
              Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Asp Ile
              <210>   169
              <211>   763
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 169
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Gly Ser Gln Thr Leu Pro His Gly His Met Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Leu Ile Phe Leu Asp Leu Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Ser Ser Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Glu Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Arg Ala Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Asn Thr Ser Ile Ser Gln Gly His Pro Pro Pro Val Pro Arg Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Ile Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Ser Pro Gly Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Val Gln Gly Arg Gln Arg Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Ile Leu Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Ala Phe Leu Gln Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Cys Cys Leu Val Ala His
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Thr Glu Leu Ala Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                 113/213
<removed-date>
              Leu Ser Thr Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Gly Thr Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Gln Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Gly Asn Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Trp
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Gln Ala Pro Thr Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Thr Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Lys Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Gln Trp Val Asp
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Glu His Ala Arg Pro Phe Ser Thr Val Lys Pro Met Tyr Gly Thr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Thr Thr Gly Thr Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Thr Leu Pro His
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly His Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe Leu Asp Leu Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Ser Ser Arg Pro Glu Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Arg Ala Leu Glu Asn Thr Ser Ile Ser Gln Gly His Pro Pro Pro
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Pro Arg Pro Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Ile Ala
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Gly Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Lys Ala Glu Leu Glu Val Gln Gly Arg Gln Arg Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu
                      355                 360                 365
              Ala Ile Leu Leu Arg Ala Phe Leu Gln Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Cys Cys
                  370                 375                 380

                                                 114/213
<removed-date>
              Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Thr
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Glu Leu Ala Arg Leu Ser Thr Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Gly Thr Phe Cys
                              405                 410                 415
              Val Asp Ser Ile Ala Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Gln Ala Ser Ser Pro
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gly Asn Gly Ser Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr
                      435                 440                 445
              Arg Leu Tyr Trp Gln Ala Pro Thr Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp
                  450                 455                 460
              Val Leu Thr Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Lys Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Gln Trp Val Asp Glu His Ala Arg Pro Phe Ser Thr Val Lys Pro Met
                              485                 490                 495
              Tyr Gly Thr Pro Ala Thr Thr Gly Thr Thr Gly Gly Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                      515                 520                 525
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Pro Thr Ile Lys Pro
                  530                 535                 540
              Ser Pro Pro Cys Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met Ile Ser Leu
                              565                 570                 575
              Ser Pro Met Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu Asp Asp Pro
                          580                 585                 590
              Asp Val Gln Ile Ser Trp Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val His Thr Ala
                      595                 600                 605

                                                 115/213
              Gln Thr Gln Thr His Arg Glu Asp Tyr Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg Val Val
<removed-date>
                  610                 615                 620
              Ser Ala Leu Pro Ile Gln His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly Lys Glu Phe
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Lys Cys Ser Val Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu Arg Thr
                              645                 650                 655
<removed-apn>
              Ile Ser Lys Pro Arg Gly Pro Val Arg Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr Val Leu
                          660                 665                 670
              Pro Pro Pro Ala Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu Thr Cys
                      675                 680                 685
              Met Ile Thr Gly Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp Trp Thr Ser
                  690                 695                 700
              Asn Gly Arg Thr Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys Asn Thr Ala Thr Val Leu Asp
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Ser Asp Gly Ser Tyr Phe Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val Gln Lys Ser
                              725                 730                 735
              Thr Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val His Glu Gly
                          740                 745                 750
              Leu His Asn His Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro Gly Lys
                      755                 760
              <210>   170
              <211>   570
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 170
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Gly Pro Gly Ala Arg Arg Gln Gly Arg Ile Val
                          20                  25                  30

                                                 116/213
<removed-date>
              Gln Gly Arg Pro Glu Met Cys Phe Cys Pro Pro Pro Thr Pro Leu Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Leu Arg Ile Leu Thr Leu Gly Thr His Thr Pro Thr Pro Cys Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Pro Gly Ser Ala Ala Gly Thr Tyr Pro Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Pro Pro Gly Pro Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe Phe Asp Met Glu Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Gly Leu Pro Phe Ser Gln Pro Lys Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Val His Arg Cys Ala Leu Glu Ser Pro Pro Thr Ser Gln Gly Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Pro Thr Val Pro Pro Pro Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Cys Val Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Ala Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Val Leu Ala Ala His Gly Arg Gln Cys Phe Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Asn Leu Ala Asn Leu Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Arg Arg Gln Pro Gln
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Trp Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Gln Ala Glu Leu Ala Met Leu Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Leu Asp Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Thr Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Arg Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Glu His Gly Pro Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser
                              245                 250                 255

                                                 117/213
              Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Gly Gln Ser Pro Pro Asp Ser His Thr Ala
<removed-date>
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Ala Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Arg Pro Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Leu Leu Arg Trp Val Asp Ala His Ala Arg Pro Phe Gly Thr Ile
                  290                 295                 300
<removed-apn>
              Arg Pro Met Tyr Gly Val Thr Ala Ser Ala Arg Thr Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys
                          340                 345                 350
              Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                  450                 455                 460
              Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys

                                                 118/213
                                485               490                 495
<removed-date>
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                          500                 505                 510
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
                      515                 520                 525
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
<removed-apn>
                  530                 535                 540
              Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn
              545                 550                 555                 560
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              565                 570
              <210>   171
              <211>   575
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 171
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Gly Pro Gly Ala Arg Arg Gln Gly Arg Ile Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Gly Arg Pro Glu Met Cys Phe Cys Pro Pro Pro Thr Pro Leu Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Leu Arg Ile Leu Thr Leu Gly Thr His Thr Pro Thr Pro Cys Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Pro Gly Ser Ala Ala Gly Thr Tyr Pro Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Pro Pro Gly Pro Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe Phe Asp Met Glu Ala
                              85                  90                  95

                                                 119/213
              Thr Gly Leu Pro Phe Ser Gln Pro Lys Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu
<removed-date>
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Val His Arg Cys Ala Leu Glu Ser Pro Pro Thr Ser Gln Gly Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Pro Thr Val Pro Pro Pro Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Cys Val Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Ala Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Val Leu Ala Ala His Gly Arg Gln Cys Phe Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Asn Leu Ala Asn Leu Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Arg Arg Gln Pro Gln
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Trp Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Gln Ala Glu Leu Ala Met Leu Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Leu Asp Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Thr Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Arg Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Glu His Gly Pro Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Gly Gln Ser Pro Pro Asp Ser His Thr Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Ala Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Arg Pro Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Leu Leu Arg Trp Val Asp Ala His Ala Arg Pro Phe Gly Thr Ile
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Pro Met Tyr Gly Val Thr Ala Ser Ala Arg Thr Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly

                                                 120/213
                              325                 330                 335
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp
                          340                 345                 350
              Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
                      355                 360                 365
              Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
<removed-apn>
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
                  450                 455                 460
              Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
                              485                 490                 495
              Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
                          500                 505                 510
              Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
                      515                 520                 525
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
                  530                 535                 540
              Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
              545                 550                 555                 560

                                                 121/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                              565                 570                 575
              Gly Lys
              <210>   172
              <211>   2091
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 172
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct ctccggagga ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga    900
              ggtgggagtg gtggaggtgg ttctaccggt ctcgagccca aatcttctga caaaactcac    960
              acatgtccac cgtgcccagc acctgaactc ctggggggac cgtcagtctt cctcttcccc   1020
              ccaaaaccca aggacaccct catgatctcc cggacccctg aggtcacatg cgtggtggtg   1080
              gacgtgagcc acgaagaccc tgaggtcaag ttcaactggt acgtggacgg cgtggaggtg   1140

                                                 122/213
<removed-date>
              cataatgcca agacaaagcc gcgggaggag cagtacaaca gcacgtaccg tgtggtcagc   1200
              gtcctcaccg tcctgcacca ggactggctg aatggcaagg agtacaagtg caaggtctcc   1260
              aacaaagccc tcccagcccc catcgagaaa accatctcca aagccaaagg gcagccccga   1320
              gaaccacagg tgtacaccct gcccccatcc cgggatgagc tgaccaagaa ccaggtcagc   1380
              ctgacctgcc tggtcaaagg cttctatccc agcgacatcg ccgtggagtg ggagagcaat   1440
              gggcagccgg agaacaacta caagaccacg cctcccgtgc tggactccga cggctccttc   1500
<removed-apn>
              ttcctctaca gcaagctcac cgtggacaag agcaggtggc agcaggggaa cgtcttctca   1560
              tgctccgtga tgcatgaggc tctgcacaac cactacacgc agaagagcct ctctctgtct   1620
              ccgggtaaag tcgacggagc tagcagcccc gtgaacgtga gcagccccag cgtgcaggat   1680
              atcccttccc tgggcaagga atcccgggcc aagaaattcc agcggcagca tatggactca   1740
              gacagttccc ccagcagcag ctccacctac tgtaaccaaa tgatgaggcg ccggaatatg   1800
              acacaggggc ggtgcaaacc agtgaacacc tttgtgcacg agcccctggt agatgtccag   1860
              aatgtctgtt tccaggaaaa ggtcacctgc aagaacgggc agggcaactg ctacaagagc   1920
              aactccagca tgcacatcac agactgccgc ctgacaaacg gctccaggta ccccaactgt   1980
              gcataccgga ccagcccgaa ggagagacac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gagcccatat   2040
              gtgccagtcc actttgatgc ttctgtggag gactctacct aataatctag a            2091
              <210>   173
              <211>   679
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 173
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His

                                                 123/213
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-date>
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                      275                 280                 285

                                                 124/213
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                              325                 330                 335
<removed-apn>
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
                      355                 360                 365
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                              405                 410                 415
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                          420                 425                 430
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                  450                 455                 460
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
                          500                 505                 510

                                                 125/213
<removed-date>
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
                      515                 520                 525
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser
                  530                 535                 540
              Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              545                 550                 555                 560
<removed-apn>
              Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser Asp
                              565                 570                 575
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Arg Arg
                          580                 585                 590
              Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His
                      595                 600                 605
              Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln Glu Lys Val Thr
                  610                 615                 620
              Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser Ser Met His
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala
                              645                 650                 655
              Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly
                          660                 665                 670
              Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
                      675
              <210>   174
              <211>   1185
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 174
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc   60

                                                 126/213
              ccagatacca ccggtccttc cctgggcaag gaatcccggg ccaagaaatt ccagcggcag    120
<removed-date>
              catatggact cagacagttc ccccagcagc agctccacct actgtaacca aatgatgagg    180
              cgccggaata tgacacaggg gcggtgcaaa ccagtgaaca cctttgtgca cgagcccctg    240
              gtagatgtcc agaatgtctg tttccaggaa aaggtcacct gcaagaacgg gcagggcaac    300
              tgctacaaga gcaactccag catgcacatc acagactgcc gcctgacaaa cgactccagg    360
              taccccaact gtgcataccg gaccagcccg aaggagagac acatcattgt ggcctgtgaa    420
<removed-apn>
              gggagcccat atgtgccagt ccactttgat gcttctgtgg aggactctac agatctcgag    480
              cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgtc cagcacctga actcctgggt    540
              ggatcgtcag tcttcctctt ccccccaaaa cccaaggaca ctctcatgat ctcccggacc    600
              cctgaggtca cgtgcgtggt ggtggacgtg agccaggaag accccgaggt ccagttcaac    660
              tggtacgtgg acggcatgga ggtgcataat gccaagacaa agccacggga ggagcagttc    720
              aacagcacgt tccgtgtggt cagcgtcctc accgtcgtgc accaggactg gctgaacggc    780
              aaggagtaca agtgcaaggt ctccaacaaa gccctcccag cctccatcga gaaaacaatc    840
              tccaaaacca aagggcagcc ccgagaacca caggtgtaca ccctgccccc atcccgggag    900
              gagatgacca agaaccaggt cagcctgacc tgcctggtca aaggcttcta tcccagcgac    960
              atcgccgtgg agtgggagag caatgggcag ccggagaaca actacaacac cacgcctccc   1020
              gtgctggact ccgacggctc cttctccctc tacagcaagc tcaccgtgga caagagcagg   1080
              tggcagcagg ggaacgtctt ctcatgctcc gtgatgcatg aggctctgca caaccactac   1140
              acgcagaaga gcctctctct gtctccgggt aaatgataat ctaga                   1185
              <210>   175
              <211>   381
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 175
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe
                          20                  25                    30

                                                 127/213
              Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr
<removed-date>
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Val Cys Phe Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Asp Ala Ser Val Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Gln Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Met Glu Val His
                  210                 215                 220
              Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu

                                                    128/213
                            260               265                   270
<removed-date>
              Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
<removed-apn>
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Asn Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
                              325                 330                 335
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Ser Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
                          340                 345                 350
              Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
                      355                 360                 365
              Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Lys
              <210>   176
              <211>   2106
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 176
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag   120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc   180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc   240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc   300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac   360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt   420

                                                 129/213
<removed-date>
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
<removed-apn>
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct ctccggagga ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga    900
              ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga ggtgggagta ccggtctcga gcccaaatct    960
              tctgacaaaa ctcacacatg tccaccgtgc ccagcacctg aactcctggg gggaccgtca   1020
              gtcttcctct tccccccaaa acccaaggac accctcatga tctcccggac ccctgaggtc   1080
              acatgcgtgg tggtggacgt gagccacgaa gaccctgagg tcaagttcaa ctggtacgtg   1140
              gacggcgtgg aggtgcataa tgccaagaca aagccgcggg aggagcagta caacagcacg   1200
              taccgtgtgg tcagcgtcct caccgtcctg caccaggact ggctgaatgg caaggagtac   1260
              aagtgcaagg tctccaacaa agccctccca gcccccatcg agaaaaccat ctccaaagcc   1320
              aaagggcagc cccgagaacc acaggtgtac accctgcccc catcccggga tgagctgacc   1380
              aagaaccagg tcagcctgac ctgcctggtc aaaggcttct atcccagcga catcgccgtg   1440
              gagtgggaga gcaatgggca gccggagaac aactacaaga ccacgcctcc cgtgctggac   1500
              tccgacggct ccttcttcct ctacagcaag ctcaccgtgg acaagagcag gtggcagcag   1560
              gggaacgtct tctcatgctc cgtgatgcat gaggctctgc acaaccacta cacgcagaag   1620
              agcctctctc tgtctccggg taaagtcgac ggagctagca gccccgtgaa cgtgagcagc   1680
              cccagcgtgc aggatatccc ttccctgggc aaggaatccc gggccaagaa attccagcgg   1740
              cagcatatgg actcagacag ttcccccagc agcagctcca cctactgtaa ccaaatgatg   1800
              aggcgccgga atatgacaca ggggcggtgc aaaccagtga acacctttgt gcacgagccc   1860
              ctggtagatg tccagaatgt ctgtttccag gaaaaggtca cctgcaagaa cgggcagggc   1920
              aactgctaca agagcaactc cagcatgcac atcacagact gccgcctgac aaacggctcc   1980
              aggtacccca actgtgcata ccggaccagc ccgaaggaga gacacatcat tgtggcctgt   2040
              gaagggagcc catatgtgcc agtccacttt gatgcttctg tggaggactc tacctaataa   2100

                                                 130/213
              tctaga                                                            2106
<removed-date>
              <210>    177
              <211>    684
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 177
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175

                                                 131/213
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
<removed-date>
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val
                              325                 330                 335
              Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys

                                                 132/213
                              405                 410                 415
<removed-date>
              Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile
                          420                 425                 430
              Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu
<removed-apn>
                  450                 455                 460
              Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser
                              485                 490                 495
              Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg
                          500                 505                 510
              Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu
                      515                 520                 525
              His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val
                  530                 535                 540
              Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Ile Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln
                              565                 570                 575
              His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn
                          580                 585                 590
              Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val
                      595                 600                 605
              Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe
                  610                 615                 620
              Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser
              625                 630                 635                 640

                                                 133/213
<removed-date>
              Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg
                              645                 650                 655
              Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile
                          660                 665                 670
              Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser
                      675                 680
<removed-apn>
              Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
              <210>   178
              <211>   2100
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 178
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag   120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc   180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc   240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc   300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac   360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt   420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg   480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa   540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat   600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg   660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg   720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc   780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg   840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct ctccggagga ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga   900

                                                 134/213
<removed-date>
              ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga ggtgggagtc tcgagcccaa atcttctgac    960
              aaaactcaca catgtccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc   1020
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc   1080
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc   1140
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt   1200
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc   1260
<removed-apn>
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg   1320
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggatgagct gaccaagaac   1380
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg   1440
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac   1500
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac   1560
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgaggct ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc   1620
              tctctgtctc cgggtaaagt cgacggagct agcagccccg tgaacgtgag cagccccagc   1680
              gtgcaggata tcccttccct gggcaaggaa tcccgggcca agaaattcca gcggcagcat   1740
              atggactcag acagttcccc cagcagcagc tccacctact gtaaccaaat gatgaggcgc   1800
              cggaatatga cacaggggcg gtgcaaacca gtgaacacct ttgtgcacga gcccctggta   1860
              gatgtccaga atgtctgttt ccaggaaaag gtcacctgca agaacgggca gggcaactgc   1920
              tacaagagca actccagcat gcacatcaca gactgccgcc tgacaaacgg ctccaggtac   1980
              cccaactgtg cataccggac cagcccgaag gagagacaca tcattgtggc ctgtgaaggg   2040
              agcccatatg tgccagtcca ctttgatgct tctgtggagg actctaccta ataatctaga   2100
              <210>   179
              <211>   684
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 179
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly

                                                   135/213
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-date>
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255

                                                 136/213
<removed-date>
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
              465                 470                 475                 480

                                                 137/213
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
                              485                 490                 495
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                          500                 505                 510
              Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn
                      515                 520                 525
<removed-apn>
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly
                  530                 535                 540
              Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met
                              565                 570                 575
              Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met
                          580                 585                 590
              Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr
                      595                 600                 605
              Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln Glu
                  610                 615                 620
              Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr Pro
                              645                 650                 655
              Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val Ala
                          660                 665                 670
              Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val Glu
                      675                 680
              Asp Ser Thr

                                                 138/213
              <210>   180
<removed-date>
              <211>   2019
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 180
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
<removed-apn>
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct cgagcccaaa tcttctgaca aaactcacac atgtccaccg    900
              tgcccagcac ctgaactcct ggggggaccg tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag    960
              gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac   1020
              gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag   1080
              acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc   1140
              ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc   1200
              ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg   1260
              tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg   1320
              gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag   1380
              aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgctg gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc   1440

                                                 139/213
<removed-date>
              aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg   1500
              catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag aagagcctct ctctgtctcc gggtaaagtc   1560
              gacggagcta gcagccccgt gaacgtgagc agccccagcg tgcaggatat cccttccctg   1620
              ggcaaggaat cccgggccaa gaaattccag cggcagcata tggactcaga cagttccccc   1680
              agcagcagct ccacctactg taaccaaatg atgaggcgcc ggaatatgac acaggggcgg   1740
              tgcaaaccag tgaacacctt tgtgcacgag cccctggtag atgtccagaa tgtctgtttc   1800
<removed-apn>
              caggaaaagg tcacctgcaa gaacgggcag ggcaactgct acaagagcaa ctccagcatg   1860
              cacatcacag actgccgcct gacaaacggc tccaggtacc ccaactgtgc ataccggacc   1920
              agcccgaagg agagacacat cattgtggcc tgtgaaggga gcccatatgt gccagtccac   1980
              tttgatgctt ctgtggagga ctctacctaa taatctaga                          2019
              <210>   181
              <211>   659
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 181
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val

                                                    140/213
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-date>
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
                              325                 330                 335

                                                 141/213
<removed-date>
              Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
                          340                 345                 350
              Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
                  370                 375                 380
<removed-apn>
              Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
                  450                 455                 460
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
                              485                 490                 495
              Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser
                      515                 520                 525
              Val Gln Asp Ile Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe
                  530                 535                 540
              Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr
              545                 550                 555                 560

                                                 142/213
<removed-date>
              Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys
                              565                 570                 575
              Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn
                          580                 585                 590
              Val Cys Phe Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys
                      595                 600                 605
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn
                  610                 615                 620
              Gly Ser Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg
              625                 630                 635                 640
              His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe
                              645                 650                 655
              Asp Ala Ser Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
              <210>   182
              <211>   1652
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 182
              gaccaagctt gccaccatgg aaaccccagc gcagcttctc ttcctcctgc tactctggct    60
              cccagatacc accggtctaa ggctctgctc cttcaatgtg aggtcctttg gagcgagcaa   120
              gaaggaaaac catgaagcca tggatatcat tgtgaagatc atcaaacgct gtgaccttat   180
              actgttgatg gaaatcaagg acagcagcaa caacatctgt cccatgctga tggagaagct   240
              gaatggaaat tcacgaagaa gcacaacata caactatgtg attagttctc gacttggaag   300
              aaacacgtac aaagagcagt atgccttcgt ctacaaggag aagctggtgt ctgtgaagac   360
              aaaataccac taccatgact atcaggatgg agacacagac gtgttttcca gggagccctt   420
              tgtggtttgg ttccattccc cctttactgc tgtcaaggac ttcgtgattg tccccttgca   480
              cacaactccc gagacctccg ttaaagagat agatgagctg gtcgatgtct acacggatgt   540

                                                    143/213
              gagaagccag tggaagacag agaatttcat cttcatgggt gatttcaacg ccggctgtag    600
<removed-date>
              ctatgtcccc aagaaggcct ggcagaacat tcgtttgagg acggacccca agtttgtttg    660
              gctgattggg gaccaagagg acactacggt caagaagagt accagctgtg cctatgacag    720
              gattgtgctt tgtggacaag agatagtcaa ctccgtggtt ccccgttcca gtggcgtctt    780
              tgactttcag aaagcttatg acttgtctga agaggaggcc ctggatgtca gtgatcactt    840
              tccagttgag tttaagctac agtcttcaag ggccttcacc aacaacagaa aatctgtttc    900
<removed-apn>
              tctcaaaaag agaaaaaaag gcaatcgctc ctcagatctc gagcccagag gtctcacaat    960
              caagccctct cctccatgca aatgcccagc acctaacctc ttgggtggat catccgtctt   1020
              catcttccct ccaaagatca aggatgtact catgatctcc ctgagcccca tggtcacatg   1080
              tgtggtggtg gatgtgagcg aggatgaccc agacgtccag atcagctggt ttgtgaacaa   1140
              cgtggaagta cacacagctc agacacaaac ccatagagag gattacaaca gtactctccg   1200
              ggtggtcagt gccctcccca tccagcacca ggactggatg agtggcaagg agttcaaatg   1260
              ctcggtcaac aacaaagacc tcccagcgtc catcgagaga accatctcaa aacccagagg   1320
              gccagtaaga gctccacagg tatatgtctt gcctccacca gcagaagaga tgactaagaa   1380
              agagttcagt ctgacctgca tgatcacagg cttcttacct gccgaaattg ctgtggactg   1440
              gaccagcaat gggcgtacag agcaaaacta caagaacacc gcaacagtcc tggactctga   1500
              tggttcttac ttcatgtaca gcaagctcag agtacaaaag agcacttggg aaagaggaag   1560
              tcttttcgcc tgctcagtgg tccacgaggg tctgcacaat caccttacga ctaagagctt   1620
              ctctcggact ccgggtaaat gataatctag aa                                 1652
              <210>   183
              <211>   541
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 183
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Arg Leu Cys Ser Phe Asn Val Arg Ser Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30

                                                 144/213
              Ala Ser Lys Lys Glu Asn His Glu Ala Met Asp Ile Ile Val Lys Ile
<removed-date>
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Lys Arg Cys Asp Leu Ile Leu Leu Met Glu Ile Lys Asp Ser Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Asn Ile Cys Pro Met Leu Met Glu Lys Leu Asn Gly Asn Ser Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Arg Ser Thr Thr Tyr Asn Tyr Val Ile Ser Ser Arg Leu Gly Arg Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Tyr Lys Glu Gln Tyr Ala Phe Val Tyr Lys Glu Lys Leu Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Lys Thr Lys Tyr His Tyr His Asp Tyr Gln Asp Gly Asp Thr Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Phe Ser Arg Glu Pro Phe Val Val Trp Phe His Ser Pro Phe Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Val Lys Asp Phe Val Ile Val Pro Leu His Thr Thr Pro Glu Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Val Lys Glu Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Asp Val Tyr Thr Asp Val Arg
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Gln Trp Lys Thr Glu Asn Phe Ile Phe Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val Pro Lys Lys Ala Trp Gln Asn Ile Arg Leu Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Asp Pro Lys Phe Val Trp Leu Ile Gly Asp Gln Glu Asp Thr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Lys Lys Ser Thr Ser Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Leu Cys Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Glu Ile Val Asn Ser Val Val Pro Arg Ser Ser Gly Val Phe Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Asp Leu Ser Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu Asp Val Ser

                                                    145/213
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-date>
              Asp His Phe Pro Val Glu Phe Lys Leu Gln Ser Ser Arg Ala Phe Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              Asn Asn Arg Lys Ser Val Ser Leu Lys Lys Arg Lys Lys Gly Asn Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Ser Asp Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Leu Thr Ile Lys Pro Ser Pro Pro
<removed-apn>
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Cys Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met Ile Ser Leu Ser Pro Met
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu Asp Asp Pro Asp Val Gln
                      355                 360                 365
              Ile Ser Trp Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val His Thr Ala Gln Thr Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr His Arg Glu Asp Tyr Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg Val Val Ser Ala Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Pro Ile Gln His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly Lys Glu Phe Lys Cys Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Val Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Pro Arg Gly Pro Val Arg Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr Val Leu Pro Pro Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Ala Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu Thr Cys Met Ile Thr
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp Trp Thr Ser Asn Gly Arg
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Thr Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys Asn Thr Ala Thr Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
                              485                 490                 495

                                                   146/213
<removed-date>
              Ser Tyr Phe Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val Gln Lys Ser Thr Trp Glu
                          500                 505                 510
              Arg Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val His Glu Gly Leu His Asn
                      515                 520                 525
              His Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro Gly Lys
                  530                 535                 540
<removed-apn>
              <210>   184
              <211>   1667
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221> modified_base
              <222> (826)..(826)
              <223> a, c, t, g, unknown or other
              <220>
              <221> modified_base
              <222> (832)..(832)
              <223> a, c, t, g, unknown or other
              <400> 184
              gagaccagct tgccccatgt ccctgcaccc agcttcccca cgcctggcct ccctgctgct    60
              cttcatcctt gccctccatg acaccctggc cctaaggctc tgctccttca atgtgaggtc   120
              ctttggagcg agcaagaagg aaaaccatga agccatggat atcattgtga agatcatcaa   180
              acgctgtgac cttatactgt tgatggaaat caaggacagc agcaacaaca tctgtcccat   240
              gctgatggag aagctgaatg gaaattcacg aagaagcaca acatacaact atgtgattag   300
              ttctcgactt ggaagaaaca cgtacaaaga gcagtatgcc ttcgtctaca aggagaagct   360
              ggtgtctgtg aagacaaaat accactacca tgactatcag gatggagaca cagacgtgtt   420
              ttccagggag ccctttgtgg tttggttcca ttcccccttt actgctgtca aggacttcgt   480
              gattgtcccc ttgcacacaa ctcccgagac ctccgttaaa gagatagatg agctggtcga   540
              tgtctacacg gatgtgagaa gccagtggaa gacagagaat ttcatcttca tgggtgattt   600
              caacgccggc tgtagctatg tccccaagaa ggcctggcag aacattcgtt tgaggacgga   660

                                                 147/213
              ccccaagttt gtttggctga ttggggacca agaggacact acggtcaaga agagtaccag    720
<removed-date>
              ctgtgcctat gacaggattg tgctttgtgg acaagagata gtcaactccg tggttccccg    780
              ttccagtggc gtctttgact ttcagaaagc ttatgacttg tctgangagg angccctgga    840
              tgtcagtgat cactttccag ttgagtttaa gctacagtct tcaagggcct tcaccaacaa    900
              cagaaaatct gtttctctca aaaagagaaa aaaaggcaat cgctcctcag atctcgagcc    960
              cagaggtctc acaatcaagc cctctcctcc atgcaaatgc ccagcaccta acctcttggg   1020
<removed-apn>
              tggatcatcc gtcttcatct tccctccaaa gatcaaggat gtactcatga tctccctgag   1080
              ccccatggtc acatgtgtgg tggtggatgt gagcgaggat gacccagacg tccagatcag   1140
              ctggtttgtg aacaacgtgg aagtacacac agctcagaca caaacccata gagaggatta   1200
              caacagtact ctccgggtgg tcagtgccct ccccatccag caccaggact ggatgagtgg   1260
              caaggagttc aaatgctcgg tcaacaacaa agacctccca gcgtccatcg agagaaccat   1320
              ctcaaaaccc agagggccag taagagctcc acaggtatat gtcttgcctc caccagcaga   1380
              agagatgact aagaaagagt tcagtctgac ctgcatgatc acaggcttct tacctgccga   1440
              aattgctgtg gactggacca gcaatgggcg tacagagcaa aactacaaga acaccgcaac   1500
              agtcctggac tctgatggtt cttacttcat gtacagcaag ctcagagtac aaaagagcac   1560
              ttgggaaaga ggaagtcttt tcgcctgctc agtggtccac gagggtctgc acaatcacct   1620
              tacgactaag agcttctctc ggactccggg taaatgataa tctagaa                 1667
              <210>   185
              <211>   546
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (270)..(270)
              <223> Any amino acid
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (272)..(272)
              <223> Any amino acid
              <400> 185
              Met Ser Leu His Pro Ala Ser Pro Arg Leu Ala Ser Leu Leu Leu Phe

                                                 148/213
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-date>
              Ile Leu Ala Leu His Asp Thr Leu Ala Leu Arg Leu Cys Ser Phe Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Arg Ser Phe Gly Ala Ser Lys Lys Glu Asn His Glu Ala Met Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Ile Val Lys Ile Ile Lys Arg Cys Asp Leu Ile Leu Leu Met Glu
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Lys Asp Ser Ser Asn Asn Ile Cys Pro Met Leu Met Glu Lys Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asn Gly Asn Ser Arg Arg Ser Thr Thr Tyr Asn Tyr Val Ile Ser Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Leu Gly Arg Asn Thr Tyr Lys Glu Gln Tyr Ala Phe Val Tyr Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Leu Val Ser Val Lys Thr Lys Tyr His Tyr His Asp Tyr Gln
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Gly Asp Thr Asp Val Phe Ser Arg Glu Pro Phe Val Val Trp Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              His Ser Pro Phe Thr Ala Val Lys Asp Phe Val Ile Val Pro Leu His
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Thr Pro Glu Thr Ser Val Lys Glu Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Asp Val
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Thr Asp Val Arg Ser Gln Trp Lys Thr Glu Asn Phe Ile Phe Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val Pro Lys Lys Ala Trp Gln
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Ile Arg Leu Arg Thr Asp Pro Lys Phe Val Trp Leu Ile Gly Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Gln Glu Asp Thr Thr Val Lys Lys Ser Thr Ser Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240

                                                 149/213
<removed-date>
              Ile Val Leu Cys Gly Gln Glu Ile Val Asn Ser Val Val Pro Arg Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Gly Val Phe Asp Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Asp Leu Ser Xaa Glu Xaa
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Leu Asp Val Ser Asp His Phe Pro Val Glu Phe Lys Leu Gln Ser
                      275                 280                 285
<removed-apn>
              Ser Arg Ala Phe Thr Asn Asn Arg Lys Ser Val Ser Leu Lys Lys Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Lys Gly Asn Arg Ser Ser Asp Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Leu Thr Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Pro Ser Pro Pro Cys Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Ser Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met Ile
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Leu Ser Pro Met Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu Asp
                      355                 360                 365
              Asp Pro Asp Val Gln Ile Ser Trp Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val His
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Ala Gln Thr Gln Thr His Arg Glu Asp Tyr Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Val Val Ser Ala Leu Pro Ile Gln His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Phe Lys Cys Ser Val Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys Pro Arg Gly Pro Val Arg Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr
                      435                 440                 445
              Val Leu Pro Pro Pro Ala Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu
                  450                 455                 460

                                                 150/213
<removed-date>
              Thr Cys Met Ile Thr Gly Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp Trp
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Thr Ser Asn Gly Arg Thr Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys Asn Thr Ala Thr Val
                              485                 490                 495
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Tyr Phe Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val Gln
                          500                 505                 510
<removed-apn>
              Lys Ser Thr Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val His
                      515                 520                 525
              Glu Gly Leu His Asn His Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro
                  530                 535                 540
              Gly Lys
              545
              <210>   186
              <211>   2094
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 186
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtatgag gatctgctcc ttcaacgtca ggtcctttgg ggaaagcaag   120
              caggaagaca agaatgccat ggatgtcatt gtgaaggtca tcaaacgctg tgacatcata   180
              ctcgtgatgg aaatcaagga cagcaacaac aggatctgcc ccatactgat ggagaagctg   240
              aacagaaatt caaggagagg cataacatac aactatgtga ttagctctcg gcttggaaga   300
              aacacatata aagaacaata tgcctttctc tacaaggaaa agctggtgtc tgtgaagagg   360
              agttatcact accatgacta tcaggatgga gacgcagatg tgttttccag ggagcccttt   420
              gtggtctggt tccaatctcc ccacactgct gtcaaagact tcgtgattat ccccctgcac   480
              accaccccag agacatccgt taaggagatc gatgagttgg ttgaggtcta cacggacgtg   540
              aaacaccgct ggaaggcgga gaatttcatt ttcatgggtg acttcaatgc cggctgcagc   600
              tacgtcccca agaaggcctg gaagaacatc cgcttgagga ctgaccccag gtttgtttgg   660

                                                 151/213
              ctgatcgggg accaagagga caccacggtg aagaagagca ccaactgtgc atatgacagg    720
<removed-date>
              attgtgctta gaggacaaga aatcgtcagt tctgttgttc ccaagtcaaa cagtgttttt    780
              gacttccaga aagcttacaa gctgactgaa gaggaggccc tggatgtcag cgaccacttt    840
              ccagttgaat ttaaactaca gtcttcaagg gccttcacca acagcaaaaa atctgtcact    900
              ctaaggaaga aaacaaagag caaacgctca gatctcgagc ccaaatcttc tgacaaaact    960
              cacacatgtc caccgtgccc agcacctgaa ctcctggggg gaccgtcagt cttcctcttc   1020
<removed-apn>
              cccccaaaac ccaaggacac cctcatgatc tcccggaccc ctgaggtcac atgcgtggtg   1080
              gtggacgtga gccacgaaga ccctgaggtc aagttcaact ggtacgtgga cggcgtggag   1140
              gtgcataatg ccaagacaaa gccgcgggag gagcagtaca acagcacgta ccgtgtggtc   1200
              agcgtcctca ccgtcctgca ccaggactgg ctgaatggca aggagtacaa gtgcaaggtc   1260
              tccaacaaag ccctcccagc ccccatcgag aaaaccatct ccaaagccaa agggcagccc   1320
              cgagaaccac aggtgtacac cctgccccca tcccgggatg agctgaccaa gaaccaggtc   1380
              agcctgacct gcctggtcaa aggcttctat cccagcgaca tcgccgtgga gtgggagagc   1440
              aatgggcagc cggagaacaa ctacaagacc acgcctcccg tgctggactc cgacggctcc   1500
              ttcttcctct acagcaagct caccgtggac aagagcaggt ggcagcaggg gaacgtcttc   1560
              tcatgctccg tgatgcatga ggctctgcac aaccactaca cgcagaagag cctctctctg   1620
              tctccgggta aagtcgacgg agctagcagc cccgtgaacg tgagcagccc cagcgtgcag   1680
              gatatccctt ccctgggcaa ggaatcccgg gccaagaaat tccagcggca gcatatggac   1740
              tcagacagtt cccccagcag cagctccacc tactgtaacc aaatgatgag gcgccggaat   1800
              atgacacagg ggcggtgcaa accagtgaac acctttgtgc acgagcccct ggtagatgtc   1860
              cagaatgtct gtttccagga aaaggtcacc tgcaagaacg ggcagggcaa ctgctacaag   1920
              agcaactcca gcatgcacat cacagactgc cgcctgacaa acggctccag gtaccccaac   1980
              tgtgcatacc ggaccagccc gaaggagaga cacatcattg tggcctgtga agggagccca   2040
              tatgtgccag tccactttga tgcttctgtg gaggactcta cctaataatc taga         2094
              <210>   187
              <211>   684
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide

                                                 152/213
<removed-date>
              <400> 187
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Arg Ile Cys Ser Phe Asn Val Arg Ser Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Ser Lys Gln Glu Asp Lys Asn Ala Met Asp Val Ile Val Lys Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Ile Lys Arg Cys Asp Ile Ile Leu Val Met Glu Ile Lys Asp Ser Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Arg Ile Cys Pro Ile Leu Met Glu Lys Leu Asn Arg Asn Ser Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Gly Ile Thr Tyr Asn Tyr Val Ile Ser Ser Arg Leu Gly Arg Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Tyr Lys Glu Gln Tyr Ala Phe Leu Tyr Lys Glu Lys Leu Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Lys Arg Ser Tyr His Tyr His Asp Tyr Gln Asp Gly Asp Ala Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Phe Ser Arg Glu Pro Phe Val Val Trp Phe Gln Ser Pro His Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Val Lys Asp Phe Val Ile Ile Pro Leu His Thr Thr Pro Glu Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Val Lys Glu Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Glu Val Tyr Thr Asp Val Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              His Arg Trp Lys Ala Glu Asn Phe Ile Phe Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val Pro Lys Lys Ala Trp Lys Asn Ile Arg Leu Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Asp Pro Arg Phe Val Trp Leu Ile Gly Asp Gln Glu Asp Thr Thr
                  210                 215                 220

                                                 153/213
<removed-date>
              Val Lys Lys Ser Thr Asn Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Leu Arg Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Glu Ile Val Ser Ser Val Val Pro Lys Ser Asn Ser Val Phe Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Lys Leu Thr Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu Asp Val Ser
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Asp His Phe Pro Val Glu Phe Lys Leu Gln Ser Ser Arg Ala Phe Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              Asn Ser Lys Lys Ser Val Thr Leu Arg Lys Lys Thr Lys Ser Lys Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn
                      355                 360                 365
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp
                      435                 440                 445

                                                 154/213
              Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
<removed-date>
                  450                 455                 460
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                              485                 490                 495
<removed-apn>
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                      515                 520                 525
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser
                  530                 535                 540
              Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              545                 550                 555                   560
              Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser
                              565                 570                 575
              Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Arg
                          580                 585                 590
              Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val
                      595                 600                 605
              His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln Glu Lys Val
                  610                 615                 620
              Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser Ser Met
              625                 630                 635                 640
              His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys
                              645                 650                 655
              Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu
                          660                 665                 670
              Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val Glu Asp Ser

                                                  155/213
                        675                 680
<removed-date>
              Thr
              <210>   188
              <211>   1620
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 188
              aagcttgccg ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
              gataccaccg gtaaggaatc ccgggccaag aaattccagc ggcagcatat ggactcagac    120
              agttccccca gcagcagctc cacctactgt aaccaaatga tgaggcgccg gaatatgaca    180
              caggggcggt gcaaaccagt gaacaccttt gtgcacgagc ccctggtaga tgtccagaat    240
              gtctgtttcc aggaaaaggt cacctgcaag aacgggcagg gcaactgcta caagagcaac    300
              tccagcatgc acatcacaga ctgccgcctg acaaacggct ccaggtaccc caactgtgca    360
              taccggacca gcccgaagga gagacacatc attgtggcct gtgaagggag cccatatgtg    420
              ccagtccact ttgatgcttc tgtggaggac tctacagatc tcgagcccaa atcttctgac    480
              aaaactcaca catgtccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc    540
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc    600
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc    660
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt    720
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc    780
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg    840
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggatgagct gaccaagaac    900
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg    960
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac   1020
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac   1080
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgagggt ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc   1140
              tctctgtctc cgggtaaagt cgacggtgct agcagccatg tgaatgtgag cagccctagc   1200

                                                 156/213
              gtgcaggata tcccttccct gggcaaggaa tcccgggcca agaaattcca gcggcagcat   1260
<removed-date>
              atggactcag acagttcccc cagcagcagc tccacctact gtaaccaaat gatgaggcgc   1320
              cggaatatga cacaggggcg gtgcaaacca gtgaacacct ttgtgcacga gcccctggta   1380
              gatgtccaga atgtctgttt ccaggaaaag gtcacctgca agaacgggca gggcaactgc   1440
              tacaagagca actccagcat gcacatcaca gactgccgcc tgacaaacgg ctccaggtac   1500
              cccaactgtg cataccggac cagcccgaag gagagacaca tcattgtggc ctgtgaaggg   1560
<removed-apn>
              agcccatatg tgccagtcca ctttgatgct tctgtggagg actctaccta ataatctaga   1620
              <210>   189
              <211>   527
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 189
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125

                                                 157/213
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
<removed-date>
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu His

                                                  158/213
                        355                 360                 365
<removed-date>
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Ala Ser Ser His Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
<removed-apn>
                              405                 410                 415
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                          420                 425                 430
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                      435                 440                 445
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
                  450                 455                 460
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                              485                 490                 495
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                          500                 505                 510
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                      515                 520                 525
              Glu Asp Ser Thr
              <210>   190
              <211>   1692
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 190

                                                 159/213
              aagcttgccg ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca     60
<removed-date>
              gataccaccg gtaaggaatc ccgggccaag aaattccagc ggcagcatat ggactcagac    120
              agttccccca gcagcagctc cacctactgt aaccaaatga tgaggcgccg gaatatgaca    180
              caggggcggt gcaaaccagt gaacaccttt gtgcacgagc ccctggtaga tgtccagaat    240
              gtctgtttcc aggaaaaggt cacctgcaag aacgggcagg gcaactgcta caagagcaac    300
              tccagcatgc acatcacaga ctgccgcctg acaaacggct ccaggtaccc caactgtgca    360
<removed-apn>
              taccggacca gcccgaagga gagacacatc attgtggcct gtgaagggag cccatatgtg    420
              ccagtccact ttgatgcttc tgtggaggac tctacagatc tctccggagg aggtggctca    480
              ggtggtggag gatctggagg aggtgggagt ggtggaggtg gttctaccgg tctcgagccc    540
              aaatcttctg acaaaactca cacatgtcca ccgtgcccag cacctgaact cctgggggga    600
              ccgtcagtct tcctcttccc cccaaaaccc aaggacaccc tcatgatctc ccggacccct    660
              gaggtcacat gcgtggtggt ggacgtgagc cacgaagacc ctgaggtcaa gttcaactgg    720
              tacgtggacg gcgtggaggt gcataatgcc aagacaaagc cgcgggagga gcagtacaac    780
              agcacgtacc gtgtggtcag cgtcctcacc gtcctgcacc aggactggct gaatggcaag    840
              gagtacaagt gcaaggtctc caacaaagcc ctcccagccc ccatcgagaa aaccatctcc    900
              aaagccaaag ggcagccccg agaaccacag gtgtacaccc tgcccccatc ccgggatgag    960
              ctgaccaaga accaggtcag cctgacctgc ctggtcaaag gcttctatcc cagcgacatc   1020
              gccgtggagt gggagagcaa tgggcagccg gagaacaact acaagaccac gcctcccgtg   1080
              ctggactccg acggctcctt cttcctctac agcaagctca ccgtggacaa gagcaggtgg   1140
              cagcagggga acgtcttctc atgctccgtg atgcatgagg gtctgcacaa ccactacacg   1200
              cagaagagcc tctctctgtc tccgggtaaa gtcgacggtg ctagcagcca tgtgaatgtg   1260
              agcagcccta gcgtgcagga tatcccttcc ctgggcaagg aatcccgggc caagaaattc   1320
              cagcggcagc atatggactc agacagttcc cccagcagca gctccaccta ctgtaaccaa   1380
              atgatgaggc gccggaatat gacacagggg cggtgcaaac cagtgaacac ctttgtgcac   1440
              gagcccctgg tagatgtcca gaatgtctgt ttccaggaaa aggtcacctg caagaacggg   1500
              cagggcaact gctacaagag caactccagc atgcacatca cagactgccg cctgacaaac   1560
              ggctccaggt accccaactg tgcataccgg accagcccga aggagagaca catcattgtg   1620
              gcctgtgaag ggagcccata tgtgccagtc cactttgatg cttctgtgga ggactctacc   1680
              taataatcta ga                                                       1692

                                                 160/213
<removed-date>
              <210>   191
              <211>   547
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 191
<removed-apn>
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
              145                 150                 155                   160
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu

                                                    161/213
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-date>
              Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
<removed-apn>
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser His Val Asn Val
                              405                 410                 415

                                                 162/213
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile Lys Glu Ser Arg
                          420                 425                   430
              Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr
                  450                 455                 460
<removed-apn>
              Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly
                              485                 490                 495
              Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys
                          500                 505                 510
              Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser
                      515                 520                 525
              Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val
                  530                 535                 540
              Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
              545
              <210>   192
              <211>   2199
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 192
              aagcttgcca ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca    60
              gataccaccg gtatgggccc tggagctcgc agacagggca ggattgtgca gggaaggcct   120
              gagatgtgct tctgcccacc ccctacccca ctccctcccc ttcggatctt aacactgggc   180
              actcacacac ccaccccatg ctcctctcca ggctcagcag caggtacgta cccaaccatg   240
              ggctcgcagg ccctgccccc ggggcccatg cagaccctca tctttttcga catggaggcc   300

                                                 163/213
<removed-date>
              actggcttgc ccttctccca gcccaaggtc acggagctgt gcctgctggc tgtccacaga    360
              tgtgccctgg agagcccccc cacctctcag gggccacctc ccacagttcc tccaccaccg    420
              cgtgtggtag acaagctctc cctgtgtgtg gctccgggga aggcctgcag ccctgcagcc    480
              agcgagatca caggtctgag cacagctgtg ctggcagcgc atgggcgtca atgttttgat    540
              gacaacctgg ccaacctgct cctagccttc ctgcggcgcc agccacagcc ctggtgcctg    600
              gtggcacaca atggtgaccg ctacgacttc cccctgctcc aagcagagct ggctatgctg    660
<removed-apn>
              ggcctcacca gtgctctgga tggtgccttc tgtgtggata gcatcactgc gctgaaggcc    720
              ctggagcgag caagcagccc ctcagaacac ggcccaagga agagctacag cctaggcagc    780
              atctacactc gcctgtatgg gcagtcccct ccagactcgc acacggctga gggtgatgtc    840
              ctggccctgc tcagcatctg tcagtggaga ccacaggccc tgctgcggtg ggtggatgct    900
              cacgccaggc ctttcggcac catcaggccc atgtatgggg tcacagcctc tgctaggacc    960
              aaagatctct ccggaggagg tggctcaggt ggtggaggat ctggaggagg tgggagtggt   1020
              ggaggtggtt ctaccggtct cgagcccaaa tcttctgaca aaactcacac atgtccaccg   1080
              tgcccagcac ctgaactcct ggggggaccg tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag   1140
              gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac   1200
              gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag   1260
              acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc   1320
              ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc   1380
              ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg   1440
              tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg   1500
              gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag   1560
              aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgctg gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc   1620
              aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg   1680
              catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag aagagcctct ctctgtctcc gggtaaagtc   1740
              gacggagcta gcagccccgt gaacgtgagc agccccagcg tgcaggatat cccttccctg   1800
              ggcaaggaat cccgggccaa gaaattccag cggcagcata tggactcaga cagttccccc   1860
              agcagcagct ccacctactg taaccaaatg atgaggcgcc ggaatatgac acaggggcgg   1920
              tgcaaaccag tgaacacctt tgtgcacgag cccctggtag atgtccagaa tgtctgtttc   1980

                                                 164/213
              caggaaaagg tcacctgcaa gaacgggcag ggcaactgct acaagagcaa ctccagcatg   2040
<removed-date>
              cacatcacag actgccgcct gacaaacggc tccaggtacc ccaactgtgc ataccggacc   2100
              agcccgaagg agagacacat cattgtggcc tgtgaaggga gcccatatgt gccagtccac   2160
              tttgatgctt ctgtggagga ctctacctaa taatctaga                          2199
              <210>   193
              <211>   716
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 193
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Gly Pro Gly Ala Arg Arg Gln Gly Arg Ile Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Gly Arg Pro Glu Met Cys Phe Cys Pro Pro Pro Thr Pro Leu Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Leu Arg Ile Leu Thr Leu Gly Thr His Thr Pro Thr Pro Cys Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Pro Gly Ser Ala Ala Gly Thr Tyr Pro Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Pro Pro Gly Pro Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe Phe Asp Met Glu Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Gly Leu Pro Phe Ser Gln Pro Lys Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Val His Arg Cys Ala Leu Glu Ser Pro Pro Thr Ser Gln Gly Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Pro Thr Val Pro Pro Pro Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Cys Val Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Ala Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                 165/213
<removed-date>
              Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Val Leu Ala Ala His Gly Arg Gln Cys Phe Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Asn Leu Ala Asn Leu Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Arg Arg Gln Pro Gln
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Trp Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Ala Glu Leu Ala Met Leu Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Leu Asp Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Thr Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Arg Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Glu His Gly Pro Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Gly Gln Ser Pro Pro Asp Ser His Thr Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Ala Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Arg Pro Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Leu Leu Arg Trp Val Asp Ala His Ala Arg Pro Phe Gly Thr Ile
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Pro Met Tyr Gly Val Thr Ala Ser Ala Arg Thr Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr
                  370                 375                 380

                                                 166/213
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile
                  450                 455                 460
              Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu
                              485                 490                 495
              Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser
                      515                 520                 525
              Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg
                  530                 535                 540
              Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val
                              565                 570                 575
              Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp
                          580                 585                 590
              Ile Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln
                      595                 600                 605

                                                 167/213
              His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn
<removed-date>
                  610                 615                 620
              Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe
                              645                 650                 655
<removed-apn>
              Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser
                          660                 665                 670
              Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg
                      675                 680                 685
              Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile
                  690                 695                 700
              Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser
              705                 710                 715
              Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
              <210>   194
              <211>   2115
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 194
              aagcttgccg ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca    60
              gataccaccg gtaaggaatc ccgggccaag aaattccagc ggcagcatat ggactcagac   120
              agttccccca gcagcagctc cacctactgt aaccaaatga tgaggcgccg gaatatgaca   180
              caggggcggt gcaaaccagt gaacaccttt gtgcacgagc ccctggtaga tgtccagaat   240
              gtctgtttcc aggaaaaggt cacctgcaag aacgggcagg gcaactgcta caagagcaac   300
              tccagcatgc acatcacaga ctgccgcctg acaaacggct ccaggtaccc caactgtgca   360
              taccggacca gcccgaagga gagacacatc attgtggcct gtgaagggag cccatatgtg   420
              ccagtccact ttgatgcttc tgtggaggac tctacagatc tcgagcccaa atcttctgac   480

                                                 168/213
<removed-date>
              aaaactcaca catgtccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc    540
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc    600
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc    660
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt    720
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc    780
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg    840
<removed-apn>
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggatgagct gaccaagaac    900
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg    960
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac   1020
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac   1080
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgagggt ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc   1140
              tctctgtctc cgggtaaagt cgacggtgct agcagccatg tgaatgtgag cagccctagc   1200
              gtgcaggata tcatgggccc tggagctcgc agacagggca ggattgtgca gggaaggcct   1260
              gagatgtgct tctgcccacc ccctacccca ctccctcccc ttcggatctt aacactgggc   1320
              actcacacac ccaccccatg ctcctctcca ggctcagcag caggtacgta cccaaccatg   1380
              ggctcgcagg ccctgccccc ggggcccatg cagaccctca tctttttcga catggaggcc   1440
              actggcttgc ccttctccca gcccaaggtc acggagctgt gcctgctggc tgtccacaga   1500
              tgtgccctgg agagcccccc cacctctcag gggccacctc ccacagttcc tccaccaccg   1560
              cgtgtggtag acaagctctc cctgtgtgtg gctccgggga aggcctgcag ccctgcagcc   1620
              agcgagatca caggtctgag cacagctgtg ctggcagcgc atgggcgtca atgttttgat   1680
              gacaacctgg ccaacctgct cctagccttc ctgcggcgcc agccacagcc ctggtgcctg   1740
              gtggcacaca atggtgaccg ctacgacttc cccctgctcc aagcagagct ggctatgctg   1800
              ggcctcacca gtgctctgga tggtgccttc tgtgtggata gcatcactgc gctgaaggcc   1860
              ctggagcgag caagcagccc ctcagaacac ggcccaagga agagctacag cctaggcagc   1920
              atctacactc gcctgtatgg gcagtcccct ccagactcgc acacggctga gggtgatgtc   1980
              ctggccctgc tcagcatctg tcagtggaga ccacaggccc tgctgcggtg ggtggatgct   2040
              cacgccaggc ctttcggcac catcaggccc atgtatgggg tcacagcctc tgctaggacc   2100
              aaatgataat ctaga                                                    2115

                                                 169/213
<removed-date>
              <210>   195
              <211>   696
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 195
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
                          180                 185                 190

                                                 170/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
<removed-apn>
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu His
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Ala Ser Ser His Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Met Gly Pro Gly Ala Arg Arg Gln Gly Arg Ile Val Gln Gly Arg Pro
                              405                 410                 415

                                                 171/213
<removed-date>
              Glu Met Cys Phe Cys Pro Pro Pro Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Leu Arg Ile
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu Thr Leu Gly Thr His Thr Pro Thr Pro Cys Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Ala Ala Gly Thr Tyr Pro Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Gly
                  450                 455                 460
<removed-apn>
              Pro Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe Phe Asp Met Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Phe Ser Gln Pro Lys Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg
                              485                 490                 495
              Cys Ala Leu Glu Ser Pro Pro Thr Ser Gln Gly Pro Pro Pro Thr Val
                          500                 505                 510
              Pro Pro Pro Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Val Ala Pro
                      515                 520                 525
              Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Ala Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Thr
                  530                 535                 540
              Ala Val Leu Ala Ala His Gly Arg Gln Cys Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Asn Leu Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Arg Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Trp Cys Leu
                              565                 570                 575
              Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Ala Glu
                          580                 585                 590
              Leu Ala Met Leu Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Leu Asp Gly Ala Phe Cys Val
                      595                 600                 605
              Asp Ser Ile Thr Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Arg Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser
                  610                 615                 620
              Glu His Gly Pro Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg
              625                 630                 635                 640

                                                    172/213
              Leu Tyr Gly Gln Ser Pro Pro Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val
<removed-date>
                              645                 650                 655
              Leu Ala Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Arg Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Arg
                          660                 665                 670
              Trp Val Asp Ala His Ala Arg Pro Phe Gly Thr Ile Arg Pro Met Tyr
                      675                 680                 685
<removed-apn>
              Gly Val Thr Ala Ser Ala Arg Thr Lys
                  690                 695
              <210>   196
              <211>   2166
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 196
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtatgag gatctgctcc ttcaacgtca ggtcctttgg ggaaagcaag   120
              caggaagaca agaatgccat ggatgtcatt gtgaaggtca tcaaacgctg tgacatcata   180
              ctcgtgatgg aaatcaagga cagcaacaac aggatctgcc ccatactgat ggagaagctg   240
              aacagaaatt caaggagagg cataacatac aactatgtga ttagctctcg gcttggaaga   300
              aacacatata aagaacaata tgcctttctc tacaaggaaa agctggtgtc tgtgaagagg   360
              agttatcact accatgacta tcaggatgga gacgcagatg tgttttccag ggagcccttt   420
              gtggtctggt tccaatctcc ccacactgct gtcaaagact tcgtgattat ccccctgcac   480
              accaccccag agacatccgt taaggagatc gatgagttgg ttgaggtcta cacggacgtg   540
              aaacaccgct ggaaggcgga gaatttcatt ttcatgggtg acttcaatgc cggctgcagc   600
              tacgtcccca agaaggcctg gaagaacatc cgcttgagga ctgaccccag gtttgtttgg   660
              ctgatcgggg accaagagga caccacggtg aagaagagca ccaactgtgc atatgacagg   720
              attgtgctta gaggacaaga aatcgtcagt tctgttgttc ccaagtcaaa cagtgttttt   780
              gacttccaga aagcttacaa gctgactgaa gaggaggccc tggatgtcag cgaccacttt   840
              ccagttgaat ttaaactaca gtcttcaagg gccttcacca acagcaaaaa atctgtcact   900
              ctaaggaaga aaacaaagag caaacgctca gatctctccg gaggaggtgg ctcaggtggt   960

                                                 173/213
<removed-date>
              ggaggatctg gaggaggtgg gagtggtgga ggtggttcta ccggtctcga gcccaaatct   1020
              tctgacaaaa ctcacacatg tccaccgtgc ccagcacctg aactcctggg gggaccgtca   1080
              gtcttcctct tccccccaaa acccaaggac accctcatga tctcccggac ccctgaggtc   1140
              acatgcgtgg tggtggacgt gagccacgaa gaccctgagg tcaagttcaa ctggtacgtg   1200
              gacggcgtgg aggtgcataa tgccaagaca aagccgcggg aggagcagta caacagcacg   1260
              taccgtgtgg tcagcgtcct caccgtcctg caccaggact ggctgaatgg caaggagtac   1320
<removed-apn>
              aagtgcaagg tctccaacaa agccctccca gcccccatcg agaaaaccat ctccaaagcc   1380
              aaagggcagc cccgagaacc acaggtgtac accctgcccc catcccggga tgagctgacc   1440
              aagaaccagg tcagcctgac ctgcctggtc aaaggcttct atcccagcga catcgccgtg   1500
              gagtgggaga gcaatgggca gccggagaac aactacaaga ccacgcctcc cgtgctggac   1560
              tccgacggct ccttcttcct ctacagcaag ctcaccgtgg acaagagcag gtggcagcag   1620
              gggaacgtct tctcatgctc cgtgatgcat gagggtctgc acaaccacta cacgcagaag   1680
              agcctctctc tgtctccggg taaagtcgac ggtgctagca gccatgtgaa tgtgagcagc   1740
              cctagcgtgc aggatatccc ttccctgggc aaggaatccc gggccaagaa attccagcgg   1800
              cagcatatgg actcagacag ttcccccagc agcagctcca cctactgtaa ccaaatgatg   1860
              aggcgccgga atatgacaca ggggcggtgc aaaccagtga acacctttgt gcacgagccc   1920
              ctggtagatg tccagaatgt ctgtttccag gaaaaggtca cctgcaagaa cgggcagggc   1980
              aactgctaca agagcaactc cagcatgcac atcacagact gccgcctgac aaacggctcc   2040
              aggtacccca actgtgcata ccggaccagc ccgaaggaga gacacatcat tgtggcctgt   2100
              gaagggagcc catatgtgcc agtccacttt gatgcttctg tggaggactc tacctaataa   2160
              tctaga                                                              2166
              <210>    197
              <211>    704
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 197
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15

                                                 174/213
<removed-date>
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Arg Ile Cys Ser Phe Asn Val Arg Ser Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Ser Lys Gln Glu Asp Lys Asn Ala Met Asp Val Ile Val Lys Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Lys Arg Cys Asp Ile Ile Leu Val Met Glu Ile Lys Asp Ser Asn
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Asn Arg Ile Cys Pro Ile Leu Met Glu Lys Leu Asn Arg Asn Ser Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Gly Ile Thr Tyr Asn Tyr Val Ile Ser Ser Arg Leu Gly Arg Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Tyr Lys Glu Gln Tyr Ala Phe Leu Tyr Lys Glu Lys Leu Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Lys Arg Ser Tyr His Tyr His Asp Tyr Gln Asp Gly Asp Ala Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Phe Ser Arg Glu Pro Phe Val Val Trp Phe Gln Ser Pro His Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Val Lys Asp Phe Val Ile Ile Pro Leu His Thr Thr Pro Glu Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Val Lys Glu Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Glu Val Tyr Thr Asp Val Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              His Arg Trp Lys Ala Glu Asn Phe Ile Phe Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val Pro Lys Lys Ala Trp Lys Asn Ile Arg Leu Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Asp Pro Arg Phe Val Trp Leu Ile Gly Asp Gln Glu Asp Thr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Lys Lys Ser Thr Asn Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Leu Arg Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240

                                                 175/213
              Gln Glu Ile Val Ser Ser Val Val Pro Lys Ser Asn Ser Val Phe Asp
<removed-date>
                              245                 250                 255
              Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Lys Leu Thr Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu Asp Val Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp His Phe Pro Val Glu Phe Lys Leu Gln Ser Ser Arg Ala Phe Thr
                      275                 280                 285
<removed-apn>
              Asn Ser Lys Lys Ser Val Thr Leu Arg Lys Lys Thr Lys Ser Lys Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
              305                 310                 315                   320
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
                          340                 345                 350
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                      355                 360                 365
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                          420                 425                 430
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                  450                 455                 460
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser

                                                 176/213
              465                 470                 475                 480
<removed-date>
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
                              485                 490                 495
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                          500                 505                 510
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
<removed-apn>
                      515                 520                 525
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                  530                 535                 540
              His Glu Gly Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser His Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro
                              565                 570                 575
              Ser Val Gln Asp Ile Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys
                          580                 585                 590
              Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser
                      595                 600                 605
              Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg
                  610                 615                 620
              Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Asn Val Cys Phe Gln Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn
                              645                 650                 655
              Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr
                          660                 665                 670
              Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu
                      675                 680                 685
              Arg His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His
                  690                 695                 700

                                                    177/213
<removed-date>
              Phe Asp Ala Ser Val Glu Asp Ser Thr
              <210>   198
              <211>   2154
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 198
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtaagga atcccgggcc aagaaattcc agcggcagca tatggactca    120
              gacagttccc ccagcagcag ctccacctac tgtaaccaaa tgatgaggcg ccggaatatg    180
              acacaggggc ggtgcaaacc agtgaacacc tttgtgcacg agcccctggt agatgtccag    240
              aatgtctgtt tccaggaaaa ggtcacctgc aagaacgggc agggcaactg ctacaagagc    300
              aactccagca tgcacatcac agactgccgc ctgacaaacg gctccaggta ccccaactgt    360
              gcataccgga ccagcccgaa ggagagacac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gagcccatat    420
              gtgccagtcc actttgatgc ttctgtggag gactctacag atctctccgg aggaggtggc    480
              tcaggtggtg gaggatctgg aggaggtggg agtggtggag gtggttctac cggtctcgag    540
              cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgcc cagcacctga actcctgggg    600
              ggaccgtcag tcttcctctt ccccccaaaa cccaaggaca ccctcatgat ctcccggacc    660
              cctgaggtca catgcgtggt ggtggacgtg agccacgaag accctgaggt caagttcaac    720
              tggtacgtgg acggcgtgga ggtgcataat gccaagacaa agccgcggga ggagcagtac    780
              aacagcacgt accgtgtggt cagcgtcctc accgtcctgc accaggactg gctgaatggc    840
              aaggagtaca agtgcaaggt ctccaacaaa gccctcccag cccccatcga gaaaaccatc    900
              tccaaagcca aagggcagcc ccgagaacca caggtgtaca ccctgccccc atcccgggat    960
              gagctgacca agaaccaggt cagcctgacc tgcctggtca aaggcttcta tcccagcgac   1020
              atcgccgtgg agtgggagag caatgggcag ccggagaaca actacaagac cacgcctccc   1080
              gtgctggact ccgacggctc cttcttcctc tacagcaagc tcaccgtgga caagagcagg   1140
              tggcagcagg ggaacgtctt ctcatgctcc gtgatgcatg aggctctgca caaccactac   1200
              acgcagaaga gcctctctct gtctccgggt aaagtcgacg gtgctagcag ccatgtgaat   1260

                                                 178/213
<removed-date>
              gtgagcagcc ctagcgtgca ggatatcatg aggatctgct ccttcaacgt caggtccttt   1320
              ggggaaagca agcaggaaga caagaatgcc atggatgtca ttgtgaaggt catcaaacgc   1380
              tgtgacatca tactcgtgat ggaaatcaag gacagcaaca acaggatctg ccccatactg   1440
              atggagaagc tgaacagaaa ttcaaggaga ggcataacat acaactatgt gattagctct   1500
              cggcttggaa gaaacacata taaagaacaa tatgcctttc tctacaagga aaagctggtg   1560
              tctgtgaaga ggagttatca ctaccatgac tatcaggatg gagacgcaga tgtgttttcc   1620
<removed-apn>
              agggagccct ttgtggtctg gttccaatct ccccacactg ctgtcaaaga cttcgtgatt   1680
              atccccctgc acaccacccc agagacatcc gttaaggaga tcgatgagtt ggttgaggtc   1740
              tacacggacg tgaaacaccg ctggaaggcg gagaatttca ttttcatggg tgacttcaat   1800
              gccggctgca gctacgtccc caagaaggcc tggaagaaca tccgcttgag gactgacccc   1860
              aggtttgttt ggctgatcgg ggaccaagag gacaccacgg tgaagaagag caccaactgt   1920
              gcatatgaca ggattgtgct tagaggacaa gaaatcgtca gttctgttgt tcccaagtca   1980
              aacagtgttt ttgacttcca gaaagcttac aagctgactg aagaggaggc cctggatgtc   2040
              agcgaccact ttccagttga atttaaacta cagtcttcaa gggccttcac caacagcaaa   2100
              aaatctgtca ctctaaggaa gaaaacaaag agcaaacgct cctaatgatc taga         2154
              <210>   199
              <211>   704
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 199
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60

                                                 179/213
<removed-date>
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
              145                 150                 155                   160
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro
                      275                 280                 285

                                                 180/213
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
<removed-date>
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              325                 330                 335
<removed-apn>
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser His Val Asn Val
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile Met Arg Ile Cys Ser Phe Asn Val
                          420                 425                 430
              Arg Ser Phe Gly Glu Ser Lys Gln Glu Asp Lys Asn Ala Met Asp Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Ile Val Lys Val Ile Lys Arg Cys Asp Ile Ile Leu Val Met Glu Ile
                  450                 455                 460
              Lys Asp Ser Asn Asn Arg Ile Cys Pro Ile Leu Met Glu Lys Leu Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Arg Asn Ser Arg Arg Gly Ile Thr Tyr Asn Tyr Val Ile Ser Ser Arg
                              485                 490                 495
              Leu Gly Arg Asn Thr Tyr Lys Glu Gln Tyr Ala Phe Leu Tyr Lys Glu
                          500                 505                 510
              Lys Leu Val Ser Val Lys Arg Ser Tyr His Tyr His Asp Tyr Gln Asp

                                                  181/213
                        515                 520               525
<removed-date>
              Gly Asp Ala Asp Val Phe Ser Arg Glu Pro Phe Val Val Trp Phe Gln
                  530                 535                 540
              Ser Pro His Thr Ala Val Lys Asp Phe Val Ile Ile Pro Leu His Thr
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Thr Pro Glu Thr Ser Val Lys Glu Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Glu Val Tyr
<removed-apn>
                              565                 570                 575
              Thr Asp Val Lys His Arg Trp Lys Ala Glu Asn Phe Ile Phe Met Gly
                          580                 585                 590
              Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val Pro Lys Lys Ala Trp Lys Asn
                      595                 600                 605
              Ile Arg Leu Arg Thr Asp Pro Arg Phe Val Trp Leu Ile Gly Asp Gln
                  610                 615                 620
              Glu Asp Thr Thr Val Lys Lys Ser Thr Asn Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Val Leu Arg Gly Gln Glu Ile Val Ser Ser Val Val Pro Lys Ser Asn
                              645                 650                 655
              Ser Val Phe Asp Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Lys Leu Thr Glu Glu Glu Ala
                          660                 665                 670
              Leu Asp Val Ser Asp His Phe Pro Val Glu Phe Lys Leu Gln Ser Ser
                      675                 680                 685
              Arg Ala Phe Thr Asn Ser Lys Lys Ser Val Thr Leu Arg Lys Lys Thr
                  690                 695                 700
              Lys Ser Lys Arg Ser
              <210>   200
              <211>   2586
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>

                                                 182/213
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-date>
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 200
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc     60
              ccagatacca ccggtctgaa gatcgcagcc ttcaacatcc agacatttgg ggagaccaag    120
              atgtccaatg ccaccctcgt cagctacatt gtgcagatcc tgagccgcta tgacatcgcc    180
              ctggtccagg aggtcagaga cagccacctg actgccgtgg ggaagctgct ggacaacctc    240
<removed-apn>
              aatcaggatg caccagacac ctatcactac gtggtcagtg agccactggg acggaacagc    300
              tataaggagc gctacctgtt cgtgtacagg cctgaccagg tgtctgcggt ggacagctac    360
              tactacgatg atggctgcga gccctgcagg aacgacacct tcaaccgaga gccattcatt    420
              gtcaggttct tctcccggtt cacagaggtc agggagtttg ccattgttcc cctgcatgcg    480
              gccccggggg acgcagtagc cgagatcgac gctctctatg acgtctacct ggatgtccaa    540
              gagaaatggg gcttggagga cgtcatgttg atgggcgact tcaatgcggg ctgcagctat    600
              gtgagaccct cccagtggtc atccatccgc ctgtggacaa gccccacctt ccagtggctg    660
              atccccgaca gcgctgacac cacagctaca cccacgcact gtgcctatga caggatcgtg    720
              gttgcaggga tgctgctccg aggcgccgtt gttcccgact cggctcttcc ctttaacttc    780
              caggctgcct atggcctgag tgaccaactg gcccaagcca tcagtgacca ctatccagtg    840
              gaggtgatgc tgaaagatct ctccggagga ggtggctcag gtggtggagg atctggagga    900
              ggtgggagtg gtggaggtgg ttctaccggt ctcgagccca aatcttctga caaaactcac    960
              acatgtccac cgtgcccagc acctgaactc ctggggggac cgtcagtctt cctcttcccc   1020
              ccaaaaccca aggacaccct catgatctcc cggacccctg aggtcacatg cgtggtggtg   1080
              gacgtgagcc acgaagaccc tgaggtcaag ttcaactggt acgtggacgg cgtggaggtg   1140
              cataatgcca agacaaagcc gcgggaggag cagtacaaca gcacgtaccg tgtggtcagc   1200
              gtcctcaccg tcctgcacca ggactggctg aatggcaagg agtacaagtg caaggtctcc   1260
              aacaaagccc tcccagcccc catcgagaaa accatctcca aagccaaagg gcagccccga   1320
              gaaccacagg tgtacaccct gcccccatcc cgggatgagc tgaccaagaa ccaggtcagc   1380
              ctgacctgcc tggtcaaagg cttctatccc agcgacatcg ccgtggagtg ggagagcaat   1440
              gggcagccgg agaacaacta caagaccacg cctcccgtgc tggactccga cggctccttc   1500
              ttcctctaca gcaagctcac cgtggacaag agcaggtggc agcaggggaa cgtcttctca   1560
              tgctccgtga tgcatgaggc tctgcacaac cactacacgc agaagagcct ctctctgtct   1620

                                                 183/213
<removed-date>
              ccgggtaaag tcgacggtgc tagcagccat gtgaatgtga gcagccctag cgtgcaggat   1680
              atcatgggcc ctggagctcg cagacagggc aggattgtgc agggaaggcc tgagatgtgc   1740
              ttctgcccac cccctacccc actccctccc cttcggatct taacactggg cactcacaca   1800
              cccaccccat gctcctctcc aggctcagca gcaggtacgt acccaaccat gggctcgcag   1860
              gccctgcccc cggggcccat gcagaccctc atctttttcg acatggaggc cactggcttg   1920
              cccttctccc agcccaaggt cacggagctg tgcctgctgg ctgtccacag atgtgccctg   1980
<removed-apn>
              gagagccccc ccacctctca ggggccacct cccacagttc ctccaccacc gcgtgtggta   2040
              gacaagctct ccctgtgtgt ggctccgggg aaggcctgca gccctgcagc cagcgagatc   2100
              acaggtctga gcacagctgt gctggcagcg catgggcgtc aatgttttga tgacaacctg   2160
              gccaacctgc tcctagcctt cctgcggcgc cagccacagc cctggtgcct ggtggcacac   2220
              aatggtgacc gctacgactt ccccctgctc caagcagagc tggctatgct gggcctcacc   2280
              agtgctctgg atggtgcctt ctgtgtggat agcatcactg cgctgaaggc cctggagcga   2340
              gcaagcagcc cctcagaaca cggcccaagg aagagctaca gcctaggcag catctacact   2400
              cgcctgtatg ggcagtcccc tccagactcg cacacggctg agggtgatgt cctggccctg   2460
              ctcagcatct gtcagtggag accacaggcc ctgctgcggt gggtggatgc tcacgccagg   2520
              cctttcggca ccatcaggcc catgtatggg gtcacagcct ctgctaggac caaatgataa   2580
              tctaga                                                              2586
              <210>    201
              <211>    848
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 201
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Thr Lys Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile
                      35                  40                  45

                                                 184/213
<removed-date>
              Leu Ser Arg Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Tyr His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Lys Glu Arg Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ser Tyr Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Arg Asn Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Asn Arg Glu Pro Phe Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Arg Glu Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ala Glu Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Trp Gly Leu Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Ser Tyr Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Pro Thr Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Pro Thr His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Arg Gly Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Tyr Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His
                          260                 265                 270

                                                 185/213
              Tyr Pro Val Glu Val Met Leu Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
<removed-date>
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
                      355                 360                 365
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                              405                 410                 415
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                          420                 425                 430
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                  450                 455                 460
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn

                                                    186/213
                          500                 505                 510
<removed-date>
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
                      515                 520                 525
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser
                  530                 535                 540
              His Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile Met Gly Pro Gly
<removed-apn>
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Ala Arg Arg Gln Gly Arg Ile Val Gln Gly Arg Pro Glu Met Cys Phe
                              565                 570                 575
              Cys Pro Pro Pro Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Leu Arg Ile Leu Thr Leu Gly
                          580                 585                 590
              Thr His Thr Pro Thr Pro Cys Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Ala Ala Gly Thr
                      595                 600                 605
              Tyr Pro Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Gly Pro Met Gln Thr
                  610                 615                 620
              Leu Ile Phe Phe Asp Met Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Phe Ser Gln Pro
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Lys Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Cys Ala Leu Glu
                              645                 650                 655
              Ser Pro Pro Thr Ser Gln Gly Pro Pro Pro Thr Val Pro Pro Pro Pro
                          660                 665                 670
              Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Val Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys
                      675                 680                 685
              Ser Pro Ala Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Val Leu Ala
                  690                 695                 700
              Ala His Gly Arg Gln Cys Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Asn Leu Leu Leu
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Ala Phe Leu Arg Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Trp Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn
                              725                 730                 735

                                                   187/213
<removed-date>
              Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Ala Glu Leu Ala Met Leu
                          740                 745                 750
              Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Leu Asp Gly Ala Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Thr
                      755                 760                 765
              Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Arg Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Glu His Gly Pro
                  770                 775                 780
<removed-apn>
              Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Gly Gln
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Ser Pro Pro Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Ala Leu Leu
                              805                 810                 815
              Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Arg Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Arg Trp Val Asp Ala
                          820                 825                 830
              His Ala Arg Pro Phe Gly Thr Ile Arg Pro Met Tyr Gly Val Thr Ala
                      835                 840                 845
              Ser Ala Arg Thr Lys
              <210>   202
              <211>   2583
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221> modified_base
              <222> (2500)..(2500)
              <223> a, c, t, g, unknown or other
              <400> 202
              aagcttgcca ccatggaaac cccagcgcag cttctcttcc tcctgctact ctggctccca    60
              gataccaccg gtatgggccc tggagctcgc agacagggca ggattgtgca gggaaggcct   120
              gagatgtgct tctgcccacc ccctacccca ctccctcccc ttcggatctt aacactgggc   180
              actcacacac ccaccccatg ctcctctcca ggctcagcag caggtacgta cccaaccatg   240

                                                 188/213
<removed-date>
              ggctcgcagg ccctgccccc ggggcccatg cagaccctca tctttttcga catggaggcc    300
              actggcttgc ccttctccca gcccaaggtc acggagctgt gcctgctggc tgtccacaga    360
              tgtgccctgg agagcccccc cacctctcag gggccacctc ccacagttcc tccaccaccg    420
              cgtgtggtag acaagctctc cctgtgtgtg gctccgggga aggcctgcag ccctgcagcc    480
              agcgagatca caggtctgag cacagctgtg ctggcagcgc atgggcgtca atgttttgat    540
              gacaacctgg ccaacctgct cctagccttc ctgcggcgcc agccacagcc ctggtgcctg    600
<removed-apn>
              gtggcacaca atggtgaccg ctacgacttc cccctgctcc aagcagagct ggctatgctg    660
              ggcctcacca gtgctctgga tggtgccttc tgtgtggata gcatcactgc gctgaaggcc    720
              ctggagcgag caagcagccc ctcagaacac ggcccaagga agagctacag cctaggcagc    780
              atctacactc gcctgtatgg gcagtcccct ccagactcgc acacggctga gggtgatgtc    840
              ctggccctgc tcagcatctg tcagtggaga ccacaggccc tgctgcggtg ggtggatgct    900
              cacgccaggc ctttcggcac catcaggccc atgtatgggg tcacagcctc tgctaggacc    960
              aaagatctct ccggaggagg tggctcaggt ggtggaggat ctggaggagg tgggagtggt   1020
              ggaggtggtt ctaccggtct cgagcccaaa tcttctgaca aaactcacac atgtccaccg   1080
              tgcccagcac ctgaactcct ggggggaccg tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag   1140
              gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac   1200
              gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag   1260
              acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc   1320
              ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc   1380
              ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg   1440
              tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg   1500
              gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag   1560
              aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgctg gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc   1620
              aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg   1680
              catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag aagagcctct ctctgtctcc gggtaaagtc   1740
              gacggtgcta gcagccatgt gaatgtgagc agccctagcg tgcaggatat cctgaagatc   1800
              gcagccttca acatccagac atttggggag accaagatgt ccaatgccac cctcgtcagc   1860
              tacattgtgc agatcctgag ccgctatgac atcgccctgg tccaggaggt cagagacagc   1920

                                                 189/213
              cacctgactg ccgtggggaa gctgctggac aacctcaatc aggatgcacc agacacctat   1980
<removed-date>
              cactacgtgg tcagtgagcc actgggacgg aacagctata aggagcgcta cctgttcgtg   2040
              tacaggcctg accaggtgtc tgcggtggac agctactact acgatgatgg ctgcgagccc   2100
              tgcgggaacg acaccttcaa ccgagagcca gccattgtca ggttcttctc ccggttcaca   2160
              gaggtcaggg agtttgccat tgttcccctg catgcggccc cgggggacgc agtagccgag   2220
              atcgacgctc tctatgacgt ctacctggat gtccaagaga aatggggctc ggaggacgtc   2280
<removed-apn>
              atgttgatgg gcgacttcaa tgcgggctgc agctatgtga gaccctccca gtggtcatcc   2340
              atccgcctgt ggacaagccc caccttccag tggctgatcc ccgacagcgc tgacaccaca   2400
              gctacaccca cgcactgtgc ctatgacagg atcgtggttg cagggatgct gctccgaggc   2460
              gccgttgttc ccgactcggc tcttcccttt aacttccagn ctgcctatgg cctgagtgac   2520
              caactggccc aagccatcag tgaccactat ccagtggagg tgatgctgaa gtgataatct   2580
              aga                                                                 2583
              <210>   203
              <211>   848
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (825)..(825)
              <223> Any amino acid
              <400> 203
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Gly Pro Gly Ala Arg Arg Gln Gly Arg Ile Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Gly Arg Pro Glu Met Cys Phe Cys Pro Pro Pro Thr Pro Leu Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Leu Arg Ile Leu Thr Leu Gly Thr His Thr Pro Thr Pro Cys Ser
                  50                  55                  60

                                                 190/213
              Ser Pro Gly Ser Ala Ala Gly Thr Tyr Pro Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Ala
<removed-date>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Pro Pro Gly Pro Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe Phe Asp Met Glu Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Gly Leu Pro Phe Ser Gln Pro Lys Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Ala Val His Arg Cys Ala Leu Glu Ser Pro Pro Thr Ser Gln Gly Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Pro Thr Val Pro Pro Pro Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Cys Val Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Ala Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Val Leu Ala Ala His Gly Arg Gln Cys Phe Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Asn Leu Ala Asn Leu Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Arg Arg Gln Pro Gln
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Trp Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Gln Ala Glu Leu Ala Met Leu Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Leu Asp Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Thr Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Arg Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Glu His Gly Pro Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Gly Gln Ser Pro Pro Asp Ser His Thr Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Ala Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Arg Pro Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Leu Leu Arg Trp Val Asp Ala His Ala Arg Pro Phe Gly Thr Ile

                                                 191/213
                  290                 295                 300
<removed-date>
              Arg Pro Met Tyr Gly Val Thr Ala Ser Ala Arg Thr Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His
<removed-apn>
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile
                  450                 455                 460
              Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu
                              485                 490                 495
              Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser
                      515                 520                 525

                                                 192/213
<removed-date>
              Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg
                  530                 535                 540
              Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val
                              565                 570                 575
<removed-apn>
              Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser His Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp
                          580                 585                 590
              Ile Leu Lys Ile Ala Ala Phe Asn Ile Gln Thr Phe Gly Glu Thr Lys
                      595                 600                 605
              Met Ser Asn Ala Thr Leu Val Ser Tyr Ile Val Gln Ile Leu Ser Arg
                  610                 615                 620
              Tyr Asp Ile Ala Leu Val Gln Glu Val Arg Asp Ser His Leu Thr Ala
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Val Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Asn Leu Asn Gln Asp Ala Pro Asp Thr Tyr
                              645                 650                 655
              His Tyr Val Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Gly Arg Asn Ser Tyr Lys Glu Arg
                          660                 665                 670
              Tyr Leu Phe Val Tyr Arg Pro Asp Gln Val Ser Ala Val Asp Ser Tyr
                      675                 680                 685
              Tyr Tyr Asp Asp Gly Cys Glu Pro Cys Gly Asn Asp Thr Phe Asn Arg
                  690                 695                 700
              Glu Pro Ala Ile Val Arg Phe Phe Ser Arg Phe Thr Glu Val Arg Glu
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Phe Ala Ile Val Pro Leu His Ala Ala Pro Gly Asp Ala Val Ala Glu
                              725                 730                 735
              Ile Asp Ala Leu Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Val Gln Glu Lys Trp Gly
                          740                 745                 750

                                                 193/213
<removed-date>
              Ser Glu Asp Val Met Leu Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala Gly Cys Ser Tyr
                      755                 760                 765
              Val Arg Pro Ser Gln Trp Ser Ser Ile Arg Leu Trp Thr Ser Pro Thr
                  770                 775                 780
              Phe Gln Trp Leu Ile Pro Asp Ser Ala Asp Thr Thr Ala Thr Pro Thr
              785                 790                 795                 800
<removed-apn>
              His Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Val Ala Gly Met Leu Leu Arg Gly
                              805                 810                 815
              Ala Val Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Leu Pro Phe Asn Phe Gln Xaa Ala Tyr
                          820                 825                 830
              Gly Leu Ser Asp Gln Leu Ala Gln Ala Ile Ser Asp His Tyr Pro Val
                      835                 840                 845
              Glu Val Met Leu Lys
              <210>   204
              <211>   2190
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 204
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtaagga atcccgggcc aagaaattcc agcggcagca tatggactca   120
              gacagttccc ccagcagcag ctccacctac tgtaaccaaa tgatgaggcg ccggaatatg   180
              acacaggggc ggtgcaaacc agtgaacacc tttgtgcacg agcccctggt agatgtccag   240
              aatgtctgtt tccaggaaaa ggtcacctgc aagaacgggc agggcaactg ctacaagagc   300
              aactccagca tgcacatcac agactgccgc ctgacaaacg gctccaggta ccccaactgt   360
              gcataccgga ccagcccgaa ggagagacac atcattgtgg cctgtgaagg gagcccatat   420
              gtgccagtcc actttgatgc ttctgtggag gactctacag atctctccgg aggaggtggc   480
              tcaggtggtg gaggatctgg aggaggtggg agtggtggag gtggttctac cggtctcgag   540

                                                 194/213
              cccaaatctt ctgacaaaac tcacacatgt ccaccgtgcc cagcacctga actcctgggg    600
<removed-date>
              ggaccgtcag tcttcctctt ccccccaaaa cccaaggaca ccctcatgat ctcccggacc    660
              cctgaggtca catgcgtggt ggtggacgtg agccacgaag accctgaggt caagttcaac    720
              tggtacgtgg acggcgtgga ggtgcataat gccaagacaa agccgcggga ggagcagtac    780
              aacagcacgt accgtgtggt cagcgtcctc accgtcctgc accaggactg gctgaatggc    840
              aaggagtaca agtgcaaggt ctccaacaaa gccctcccag cccccatcga gaaaaccatc    900
<removed-apn>
              tccaaagcca aagggcagcc ccgagaacca caggtgtaca ccctgccccc atcccgggat    960
              gagctgacca agaaccaggt cagcctgacc tgcctggtca aaggcttcta tcccagcgac   1020
              atcgccgtgg agtgggagag caatgggcag ccggagaaca actacaagac cacgcctccc   1080
              gtgctggact ccgacggctc cttcttcctc tacagcaagc tcaccgtgga caagagcagg   1140
              tggcagcagg ggaacgtctt ctcatgctcc gtgatgcatg aggctctgca caaccactac   1200
              acgcagaaga gcctctctct gtctccgggt aaagtcgacg gtgctagcag ccatgtgaat   1260
              gtgagcagcc ctagcgtgca ggatatcatg ggccctggag ctcgcagaca gggcaggatt   1320
              gtgcagggaa ggcctgagat gtgcttctgc ccacccccta ccccactccc tccccttcgg   1380
              atcttaacac tgggcactca cacacccacc ccatgctcct ctccaggctc agcagcaggt   1440
              acgtacccaa ccatgggctc gcaggccctg cccccggggc ccatgcagac cctcatcttt   1500
              ttcgacatgg aggccactgg cttgcccttc tcccagccca aggtcacgga gctgtgcctg   1560
              ctggctgtcc acagatgtgc cctggagagc ccccccacct ctcaggggcc acctcccaca   1620
              gttcctccac caccgcgtgt ggtagacaag ctctccctgt gtgtggctcc ggggaaggcc   1680
              tgcagccctg cagccagcga gatcacaggt ctgagcacag ctgtgctggc agcgcatggg   1740
              cgtcaatgtt ttgatgacaa cctggccaac ctgctcctag ccttcctgcg gcgccagcca   1800
              cagccctggt gcctggtggc acacaatggt gaccgctacg acttccccct gctccaagca   1860
              gagctggcta tgctgggcct caccagtgct ctggatggtg ccttctgtgt ggatagcatc   1920
              actgcgctga aggccctgga gcgagcaagc agcccctcag aacacggccc aaggaagagc   1980
              tacagcctag gcagcatcta cactcgcctg tatgggcagt cccctccaga ctcgcacacg   2040
              gctgagggtg atgtcctggc cctgctcagc atctgtcagt ggagaccaca ggccctgctg   2100
              cggtgggtgg atgctcacgc caggcctttc ggcaccatca ggcccatgta tggggtcaca   2160
              gcctctgcta ggaccaaatg ataatctaga                                    2190

                                                 195/213
              <210>   205
<removed-date>
              <211>   716
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 205
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Lys Glu Ser Arg Ala Lys Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Asp Ser Asp Ser Ser Pro Ser Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Met Arg Arg Arg Asn Met Thr Gln Gly Arg Cys Lys Pro Val Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Val Asp Val Gln Asn Val Cys Phe Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Lys Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Gly Gln Gly Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ser Met His Ile Thr Asp Cys Arg Leu Thr Asn Gly Ser Arg Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Cys Ala Tyr Arg Thr Ser Pro Lys Glu Arg His Ile Ile Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Cys Glu Gly Ser Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Ser Thr Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
              145                 150                 155                   160
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Glu Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu
                          180                 185                 190

                                                 196/213
<removed-date>
              Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
<removed-apn>
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser Ser His Val Asn Val
                              405                 410                 415

                                                 197/213
              Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile Met Gly Pro Gly Ala Arg Arg Gln
<removed-date>
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Arg Ile Val Gln Gly Arg Pro Glu Met Cys Phe Cys Pro Pro Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Leu Arg Ile Leu Thr Leu Gly Thr His Thr Pro
                  450                 455                 460
<removed-apn>
              Thr Pro Cys Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Ala Ala Gly Thr Tyr Pro Thr Met
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Gly Ser Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Gly Pro Met Gln Thr Leu Ile Phe Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Asp Met Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Phe Ser Gln Pro Lys Val Thr Glu
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Cys Ala Leu Glu Ser Pro Pro Thr
                      515                 520                 525
              Ser Gln Gly Pro Pro Pro Thr Val Pro Pro Pro Pro Arg Val Val Asp
                  530                 535                 540
              Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Val Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala Cys Ser Pro Ala Ala
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Val Leu Ala Ala His Gly Arg
                              565                 570                 575
              Gln Cys Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Asn Leu Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Arg
                          580                 585                 590
              Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Trp Cys Leu Val Ala His Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr
                      595                 600                 605
              Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Ala Glu Leu Ala Met Leu Gly Leu Thr Ser
                  610                 615                 620
              Ala Leu Asp Gly Ala Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile Thr Ala Leu Lys Ala
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Leu Glu Arg Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Glu His Gly Pro Arg Lys Ser Tyr

                                                 198/213
                                645               650                 655
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Gly Gln Ser Pro Pro Asp
                          660                 665                 670
              Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Ala Leu Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln
                      675                 680                 685
              Trp Arg Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Arg Trp Val Asp Ala His Ala Arg Pro
<removed-apn>
                  690                 695                 700
              Phe Gly Thr Ile Arg Pro Met Tyr Gly Val Thr Ala Ser Ala Arg Thr
              705                 710                 715
              Lys
              <210>   206
              <211>   2589
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 206
              gttaagcttg ccaccatgga aaccccagcg cagcttctct tcctcctgct actctggctc    60
              ccagatacca ccggtatgag gatctgctcc ttcaacgtca ggtcctttgg ggaaagcaag   120
              caggaagaca agaatgccat ggatgtcatt gtgaaggtca tcaaacgctg tgacatcata   180
              ctcgtgatgg aaatcaagga cagcaacaac aggatctgcc ccatactgat ggagaagctg   240
              aacagaaatt caaggagagg cataacatac aactatgtga ttagctctcg gcttggaaga   300
              aacacatata aagaacaata tgcctttctc tacaaggaaa agctggtgtc tgtgaagagg   360
              agttatcact accatgacta tcaggatgga gacgcagatg tgttttccag ggagcccttt   420
              gtggtctggt tccaatctcc ccacactgct gtcaaagact tcgtgattat ccccctgcac   480
              accaccccag agacatccgt taaggagatc gatgagttgg ttgaggtcta cacggacgtg   540
              aaacaccgct ggaaggcgga gaatttcatt ttcatgggtg acttcaatgc cggctgcagc   600
              tacgtcccca agaaggcctg gaagaacatc cgcttgagga ctgaccccag gtttgtttgg   660
              ctgatcgggg accaagagga caccacggtg aagaagagca ccaactgtgc atatgacagg   720

                                                 199/213
              attgtgctta gaggacaaga aatcgtcagt tctgttgttc ccaagtcaaa cagtgttttt    780
<removed-date>
              gacttccaga aagcttacaa gctgactgaa gaggaggccc tggatgtcag cgaccacttt    840
              ccagttgaat ttaaactaca gtcttcaagg gccttcacca acagcaaaaa atctgtcact    900
              ctaaggaaga aaacaaagag caaacgctca gatctcgagc ccaaatcttc tgacaaaact    960
              cacacatgtc caccgtgccc agcacctgaa ctcctggggg gaccgtcagt cttcctcttc   1020
              cccccaaaac ccaaggacac cctcatgatc tcccggaccc ctgaggtcac atgcgtggtg   1080
<removed-apn>
              gtggacgtga gccacgaaga ccctgaggtc aagttcaact ggtacgtgga cggcgtggag   1140
              gtgcataatg ccaagacaaa gccgcgggag gagcagtaca acagcacgta ccgtgtggtc   1200
              agcgtcctca ccgtcctgca ccaggactgg ctgaatggca aggagtacaa gtgcaaggtc   1260
              tccaacaaag ccctcccagc ccccatcgag aaaaccatct ccaaagccaa agggcagccc   1320
              cgagaaccac aggtgtacac cctgccccca tcccgggatg agctgaccaa gaaccaggtc   1380
              agcctgacct gcctggtcaa aggcttctat cccagcgaca tcgccgtgga gtgggagagc   1440
              aatgggcagc cggagaacaa ctacaagacc acgcctcccg tgctggactc cgacggctcc   1500
              ttcttcctct acagcaagct caccgtggac aagagcaggt ggcagcaggg gaacgtcttc   1560
              tcatgctccg tgatgcatga ggctctgcac aaccactaca cgcagaagag cctctctctg   1620
              tctccgggta aagtcgacgg agctagcagc cccgtgaacg tgagcagccc cagcgtgcag   1680
              gatatcatgg gccctggagc tcgcagacag ggcaggattg tgcagggaag gcctgagatg   1740
              tgcttctgcc caccccctac cccactccct ccccttcgga tcttaacact gggcactcac   1800
              acacccaccc catgctcctc tccaggctca gcagcaggta cgtacccaac catgggctcg   1860
              caggccctgc ccccggggcc catgcagacc ctcatctttt tcgacatgga ggccactggc   1920
              ttgcccttct cccagcccaa ggtcacggag ctgtgcctgc tggctgtcca cagatgtgcc   1980
              ctggagagcc cccccacctc tcaggggcca cctcccacag ttcctccacc accgcgtgtg   2040
              gtagacaagc tctccctgtg tgtggctccg gggaaggcct gcagccctgc agccagcgag   2100
              atcacaggtc tgagcacagc tgtgctggca gcgcatgggc gtcaatgttt tgatgacaac   2160
              ctggccaacc tgctcctagc cttcctgcgg cgccagccac agccctggtg cctggtggca   2220
              cacaatggtg accgctacga cttccccctg ctccaagcag agctggctat gctgggcctc   2280
              accagtgctc tggatggtgc cttctgtgtg gatagcatca ctgcgctgaa ggccctggag   2340
              cgagcaagca gcccctcaga acacggccca aggaagagct acagcctagg cagcatctac   2400
              actcgcctgt atgggcagtc ccctccagac tcgcacacgg ctgagggtga tgtcctggcc   2460

                                                 200/213
<removed-date>
              ctgctcagca tctgtcagtg gagaccacag gccctgctgc ggtgggtgga tgctcacgcc   2520
              aggcctttcg gcaccatcag gcccatgtat ggggtcacag cctctgctag gaccaaatga   2580
              taatctaga                                                           2589
              <210>   207
              <211>   854
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 207
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly Met Arg Ile Cys Ser Phe Asn Val Arg Ser Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Ser Lys Gln Glu Asp Lys Asn Ala Met Asp Val Ile Val Lys Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Lys Arg Cys Asp Ile Ile Leu Val Met Glu Ile Lys Asp Ser Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Arg Ile Cys Pro Ile Leu Met Glu Lys Leu Asn Arg Asn Ser Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Gly Ile Thr Tyr Asn Tyr Val Ile Ser Ser Arg Leu Gly Arg Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Tyr Lys Glu Gln Tyr Ala Phe Leu Tyr Lys Glu Lys Leu Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Lys Arg Ser Tyr His Tyr His Asp Tyr Gln Asp Gly Asp Ala Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Phe Ser Arg Glu Pro Phe Val Val Trp Phe Gln Ser Pro His Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Val Lys Asp Phe Val Ile Ile Pro Leu His Thr Thr Pro Glu Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                 201/213
<removed-date>
              Ser Val Lys Glu Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Glu Val Tyr Thr Asp Val Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              His Arg Trp Lys Ala Glu Asn Phe Ile Phe Met Gly Asp Phe Asn Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Cys Ser Tyr Val Pro Lys Lys Ala Trp Lys Asn Ile Arg Leu Arg
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Thr Asp Pro Arg Phe Val Trp Leu Ile Gly Asp Gln Glu Asp Thr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Lys Lys Ser Thr Asn Cys Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Val Leu Arg Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Glu Ile Val Ser Ser Val Val Pro Lys Ser Asn Ser Val Phe Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Lys Leu Thr Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu Asp Val Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp His Phe Pro Val Glu Phe Lys Leu Gln Ser Ser Arg Ala Phe Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              Asn Ser Lys Lys Ser Val Thr Leu Arg Lys Lys Thr Lys Ser Lys Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Asp Leu Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn
                      355                 360                 365
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
                  370                 375                 380

                                                 202/213
              Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
<removed-date>
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
                  450                 455                 460
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                      515                 520                 525
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Ser
                  530                 535                 540
              Ser Pro Val Asn Val Ser Ser Pro Ser Val Gln Asp Ile Met Gly Pro
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Gly Ala Arg Arg Gln Gly Arg Ile Val Gln Gly Arg Pro Glu Met Cys
                              565                 570                 575
              Phe Cys Pro Pro Pro Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Leu Arg Ile Leu Thr Leu
                          580                 585                 590
              Gly Thr His Thr Pro Thr Pro Cys Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Ala Ala Gly
                      595                 600                 605
              Thr Tyr Pro Thr Met Gly Ser Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Gly Pro Met Gln

                                                 203/213
                  610                 615                 620
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Ile Phe Phe Asp Met Glu Ala Thr Gly Leu Pro Phe Ser Gln
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Pro Lys Val Thr Glu Leu Cys Leu Leu Ala Val His Arg Cys Ala Leu
                              645                 650                 655
              Glu Ser Pro Pro Thr Ser Gln Gly Pro Pro Pro Thr Val Pro Pro Pro
<removed-apn>
                          660                 665                 670
              Pro Arg Val Val Asp Lys Leu Ser Leu Cys Val Ala Pro Gly Lys Ala
                      675                 680                 685
              Cys Ser Pro Ala Ala Ser Glu Ile Thr Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Val Leu
                  690                 695                 700
              Ala Ala His Gly Arg Gln Cys Phe Asp Asp Asn Leu Ala Asn Leu Leu
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Leu Ala Phe Leu Arg Arg Gln Pro Gln Pro Trp Cys Leu Val Ala His
                              725                 730                 735
              Asn Gly Asp Arg Tyr Asp Phe Pro Leu Leu Gln Ala Glu Leu Ala Met
                          740                 745                 750
              Leu Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Leu Asp Gly Ala Phe Cys Val Asp Ser Ile
                      755                 760                 765
              Thr Ala Leu Lys Ala Leu Glu Arg Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Glu His Gly
                  770                 775                 780
              Pro Arg Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Gly Ser Ile Tyr Thr Arg Leu Tyr Gly
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Gln Ser Pro Pro Asp Ser His Thr Ala Glu Gly Asp Val Leu Ala Leu
                              805                 810                 815
              Leu Ser Ile Cys Gln Trp Arg Pro Gln Ala Leu Leu Arg Trp Val Asp
                          820                 825                 830
              Ala His Ala Arg Pro Phe Gly Thr Ile Arg Pro Met Tyr Gly Val Thr
                      835                 840                 845

                                                    204/213
<removed-date>
              Ala Ser Ala Arg Thr Lys
                  850
              <210>   208
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <220>
              <221> misc_feature
              <222> (1)..(25)
              <223> This sequence may encompass 0 to 5 "GGGGS" repeating units
              <400> 208
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   209
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 209
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   210
              <211>   50
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide

                                                 205/213
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> misc_feature
              <222> (1)..(50)
              <223> This sequence may encompass 1 to 10 "GGGGS" repeating units
              <400> 210
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Ser
                  50
              <210>   211
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 211
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   212
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 212
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20
              <210> 213
              <211> 5

                                                 206/213
              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 213
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   214
              <211>   51
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <220>
              <221> misc_feature
              <222> (2)..(51)
              <223> This region may encompass 1 to 10 "GGGGS" repeating units
              <400> 214
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Gly Ser
                  50
              <210>   215
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 215
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15

                                                 207/213
<removed-date>
              <210>   216
              <211>   21
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 216
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20
              <210>   217
              <211>   31
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <220>
              <221> misc_feature
              <222> (2)..(31)
              <223> This region may encompass 1 to 6 "GGGGS" repeating units
              <400> 217
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   218
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <220>
              <221> misc_feature
              <222> (1)..(25)
              <223> This sequence may encompass 3 to 5 "GGGGS" repeating units

                                                    208/213
<removed-date>
              <400> 218
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   219
              <211>   25
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <220>
              <221> misc_feature
              <222> (1)..(25)
              <223> This sequence may encompass 1 to 5 "GGGGS" repeating units
              <400> 219
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   220
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    oligonucleotide
              <220>
              <221> misc_feature
              <222> (1)..(18)
              <223> This sequence may encompass 1 to 12 repeating "t" nucleotides
              <400> 220
              tttttttttt tttttttt                                                   18
              <210>   221
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                 209/213
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 221
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Gly
              1               5
              <210>   222
              <211>   1177
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221> CDS
              <222> (16)..(1164)
              <400> 222
              gttaagcttg ccacc atg ggt ctg gag aag tcc ctc att ctg ttt cca ttg    51
                               Met Gly Leu Glu Lys Ser Leu Ile Leu Phe Pro Leu
                               1               5                   10
              ttt ttc ctg ctg ctt gga tgg gtc cag cct tcc ccg ggc agg gaa tct     99
              Phe Phe Leu Leu Leu Gly Trp Val Gln Pro Ser Pro Gly Arg Glu Ser
                      15                  20                  25
              gca gca cag aag ttt cag cgg cag cac atg gat cca gat ggt tcc tcc    147
              Ala Ala Gln Lys Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Pro Asp Gly Ser Ser
                  30                  35                  40
              atc aac agc ccc acc tac tgc aac caa atg atg aaa cgc cgg gat atg    195
              Ile Asn Ser Pro Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Lys Arg Arg Asp Met
              45                  50                  55                  60
              aca aat ggg tca tgc aag ccc gtg aac acc ttc gtg cat gag ccc ttg    243
              Thr Asn Gly Ser Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu
                              65                  70                  75
              gca gat gtc cag gcc gtc tgc tcc cag gaa aat gtc acc tgc aag aac    291
              Ala Asp Val Gln Ala Val Cys Ser Gln Glu Asn Val Thr Cys Lys Asn
                          80                  85                  90
              agg aag agc aac tgc tac aag agc agc tct gcc ctg cac atc act gac    339
              Arg Lys Ser Asn Cys Tyr Lys Ser Ser Ser Ala Leu His Ile Thr Asp
                      95                  100                 105
              tgc cac ctg aag ggc aac tcc aag tat ccc aac tgt gac tac aag acc    387
              Cys His Leu Lys Gly Asn Ser Lys Tyr Pro Asn Cys Asp Tyr Lys Thr
                  110                 115                 120

                                                 210/213
              act caa tac cag aag cac atc att gtg gcc tgt gaa ggg aac ccc tac    435
<removed-date>
              Thr Gln Tyr Gln Lys His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Asn Pro Tyr
              125                 130                 135                 140
              gta cca gtc cac ttt gat gct act gtg ctc gag ccc aga ggt ctc aca    483
              Val Pro Val His Phe Asp Ala Thr Val Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Leu Thr
                              145                 150                 155
              atc aag ccc tct cct cca tgc aaa tgc cca gca cct aac ctc ttg ggt    531
              Ile Lys Pro Ser Pro Pro Cys Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Gly
                          160                 165                 170
<removed-apn>
              gga tca tcc gtc ttc atc ttc cct cca aag atc aag gat gta ctc atg    579
              Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met
                      175                 180                 185
              atc tcc ctg agc ccc atg gtc aca tgt gtg gtg gtg gat gtg agc gag    627
              Ile Ser Leu Ser Pro Met Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu
                  190                 195                 200
              gat gac cca gac gtc cag atc agc tgg ttt gtg aac aac gtg gaa gta    675
              Asp Asp Pro Asp Val Gln Ile Ser Trp Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val
              205                 210                 215                 220
              cac aca gct cag aca caa acc cat aga gag gat tac aac agt act ctc    723
              His Thr Ala Gln Thr Gln Thr His Arg Glu Asp Tyr Asn Ser Thr Leu
                              225                 230                 235
              cgg gtg gtc agt gcc ctc ccc atc cag cac cag gac tgg atg agt ggc    771
              Arg Val Val Ser Ala Leu Pro Ile Gln His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly
                          240                 245                 250
              aag gag ttc aaa tgc tcg gtc aac aac aaa gac ctc cca gcg tcc atc    819
              Lys Glu Phe Lys Cys Ser Val Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile
                      255                 260                 265
              gag aga acc atc tca aaa ccc aga ggg cca gta aga gct cca cag gta    867
              Glu Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys Pro Arg Gly Pro Val Arg Ala Pro Gln Val
                  270                 275                 280
              tat gtc ttg cct cca cca gca gaa gag atg act aag aaa gag ttc agt    915
              Tyr Val Leu Pro Pro Pro Ala Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser
              285                 290                 295                 300
              ctg acc tgc atg atc aca ggc ttc tta cct gcc gaa att gct gtg gac    963
              Leu Thr Cys Met Ile Thr Gly Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp
                              305                 310                 315
              tgg acc agc aat ggg cgt aca gag caa aac tac aag aac acc gca aca   1011
              Trp Thr Ser Asn Gly Arg Thr Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys Asn Thr Ala Thr
                          320                 325                 330
              gtc ctg gac tct gat ggt tct tac ttc atg tac agc aag ctc aga gta   1059
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Tyr Phe Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val
                      335                 340                 345
              caa aag agc act tgg gaa aga gga agt ctt ttc gcc tgc tca gtg gtc   1107

                                                 211/213
              Gln Lys Ser Thr Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val
<removed-date>
                  350                 355                 360
              cac gag ggt ctg cac aat cac ctt acg act aag agc ttc tct cgg act   1155
              His Glu Gly Leu His Asn His Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser Phe Ser Arg Thr
              365                 370                 375                 380
              ccg ggt aaa tgataatcta gaa                                        1177
              Pro Gly Lys
<removed-apn>
              <210>   223
              <211>   383
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 223
              Met Gly Leu Glu Lys Ser Leu Ile Leu Phe Pro Leu Phe Phe Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Gly Trp Val Gln Pro Ser Pro Gly Arg Glu Ser Ala Ala Gln Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Gln Arg Gln His Met Asp Pro Asp Gly Ser Ser Ile Asn Ser Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Tyr Cys Asn Gln Met Met Lys Arg Arg Asp Met Thr Asn Gly Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Cys Lys Pro Val Asn Thr Phe Val His Glu Pro Leu Ala Asp Val Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Val Cys Ser Gln Glu Asn Val Thr Cys Lys Asn Arg Lys Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Tyr Lys Ser Ser Ser Ala Leu His Ile Thr Asp Cys His Leu Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Gly Asn Ser Lys Tyr Pro Asn Cys Asp Tyr Lys Thr Thr Gln Tyr Gln
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys His Ile Ile Val Ala Cys Glu Gly Asn Pro Tyr Val Pro Val His
                  130                 135                 140

                                                 212/213
<removed-date>
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Val Leu Glu Pro Arg Gly Leu Thr Ile Lys Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Pro Cys Lys Cys Pro Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val
                              165                 170                 175
              Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Lys Ile Lys Asp Val Leu Met Ile Ser Leu Ser
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Pro Met Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Glu Asp Asp Pro Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Gln Ile Ser Trp Phe Val Asn Asn Val Glu Val His Thr Ala Gln
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Gln Thr His Arg Glu Asp Tyr Asn Ser Thr Leu Arg Val Val Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ala Leu Pro Ile Gln His Gln Asp Trp Met Ser Gly Lys Glu Phe Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Cys Ser Val Asn Asn Lys Asp Leu Pro Ala Ser Ile Glu Arg Thr Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser Lys Pro Arg Gly Pro Val Arg Ala Pro Gln Val Tyr Val Leu Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Pro Ala Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Lys Glu Phe Ser Leu Thr Cys Met
                  290                 295                 300
              Ile Thr Gly Phe Leu Pro Ala Glu Ile Ala Val Asp Trp Thr Ser Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Arg Thr Glu Gln Asn Tyr Lys Asn Thr Ala Thr Val Leu Asp Ser
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Gly Ser Tyr Phe Met Tyr Ser Lys Leu Arg Val Gln Lys Ser Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser Leu Phe Ala Cys Ser Val Val His Glu Gly Leu
                      355                 360                 365

                                                 213/213
              His Asn His Leu Thr Thr Lys Ser Phe Ser Arg Thr Pro Gly Lys
<removed-date>
                  370                 375                 380
              <210>   224
              <211>   28
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 224
              Met Gly Leu Glu Lys Ser Leu Val Arg Leu Leu Leu Leu Val Leu Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Leu Val Leu Gly Trp Val Gln Pro Ser Leu Gly
                          20                  25
              <210>   225
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 225
              Met Glu Thr Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Trp Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Thr Thr Gly
                          20

