   P1399AUAU
  ABSTRACT
  A system for carrying health and/or beauty product. The system includes three or
  more product units each of which is at least 3 times as long as it is wide. The
  system further includes a body for holding the product units parallel and adjacent
5 to each other and so as to occupy a region of space at least 3 times as long as it is
  thick.

         1/1
             U-      L
  0                    CN
0   OL
             u
                          L
                 Co
                    TU
0      I        Co

    P1399AUAU
                                                 1
                   TRANSPORTING HEALTH AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
   FIELD
   The invention relates to transporting health and/or beauty products such as
   cosmetics, moisturiser, sunscreen, antibacterial lotions, body soap, hair products,
 5 toothpaste, and perfume.
   BACKGROUND
   Health and beauty products are often transported in a simple makeup bag. Typically,
   the products are of all sorts of different shapes and sizes and are simply dumped into
   the bag. The present inventors have recognised that this is space inefficient and also
10 that such bags typically become messy as one product or the other is spilt. They
   have also recognised that users are often frustrated as they rifle through the bag
   looking for a particular product of interest.
   Accordingly, the invention in its various aspects aims to provide improvements in and
   for the transport of health and beauty products or at least to provide an alternative for
15 those concerned with such products.
   It is not admitted that any of the information in this patent specification is common
   general knowledge, or that the person skilled in the art could be reasonably expected
   to ascertain or understand it, regard it as relevant or combine it in any way before the
   priority date.
20 SUMMARY
   One aspect of the invention provides a beauty case including one or more sockets;
   each respective socket of the one or more sockets being configured to receive a
   respective product unit having a respective screw top; and

    P1399AUAU
                                               2
   each said respective socket being configured to resist rotation of the respective
   product unit to enable the respective screw top to be opened and closed whilst the
   respective product unit is in the respective socket.
   In addition to the one or more sockets there may be other sockets that are configured
 5 differently.
   Preferably each said respective socket has resilient material for gripping the
   respective product unit. The resilient material of each said respective socket may
   include material for gripping a revolved exterior of the respective product unit. The
   resilient material of each said respective socket may include material at an end of the
10 respective socket and against which a user may pushing the respective product unit
   for improved gripping. There may be a single piece of resilient material including a
   respective portion for each said respective socket.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a system, for carrying health and/or beauty
   product, including
15 three or more product units each of which is at least 3 times as long as it is wide;
   a body for holding the product units parallel and adjacent to each other and so as to
   occupy a region of space at least 3 times as long as it is thick.
   The body preferably defines a respective socket for each for the product units. The
   system may include a lid for overlying and capturing the product units.
20 Another aspect of the invention provides a system, for carrying health and/or beauty
   product, including
   three or more product units;
   a body defining a respective socket for each for the product units; and
   a lid for overlying and capturing the product units.

    P1399AUAU
                                                 3
   Another aspect of the invention provides a system, for carrying health and/or beauty
   product, including
   three or more product units;
   a body for holding the product units; and
 5 a portion mounted to pivot, relative to the body, from a closed configuration in which
   a mirror is protected to an open configuration in which the mirror is presented for use.
   The system may include a powder compartment closed by the portion when the
   portion is in it closed configuration. The system may include one or more magnetic
   portions by which the body is connectable to a mutually identical body.
10 Another aspect of the invention provides a system, for carrying health and/or beauty
   product, including
   three or more product units;
   a body for holding the product units; and
   one or more magnetic portions by which the body is connectable to a mutually
15 identical body.
   Another aspect of the invention provides the combination of the beauty case and at
   least one said respective product unit.
   Also disclosed are bodies for transport systems and methods of transporting.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
20 An embodiment of the apparatus will now be described by way of example only with
   reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
   e      Figure 1 is a perspective view of a transport system;

    P1399AUAU
                                                 4
   *      Figure 2 is a front view of a transport system;
   *      Figure 3 is a top view of the transport system; and
   *      Figure 4 is close up perspective view of a portion of the transport system.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5 The transport system 1 incorporates a body 3 and six product units 5. In this example
   the product units take the form of predominantly cylindrical pump packs each of
   which has at its top end a button portion pressable to spray a dispersion of the
   contained health and/or beauty product. By way of example the contained products
   may be perfume.
10 Other forms of product unit are possible. By way of example a long thin container
   may be used to hold foundation which may be poured out onto a suitable applicator.
   Indeed, the product unit may be such an applicator such as a brush. Alternatively, the
   brush could be housed inside a product unit in the form of an elongate container.
   The product units are preferably elongate. Preferably they are at least three times
15 longer than they are wide (i.e. they are wide at their widest point). More preferably
   they are at least five times as long as they are wide. In this example the product units
   5 are at least ten times long as they are wide. Products in stick form (e.g. lipstick,
   concealer stick) are well suited.
   The body 3 defines a respective upwardly open socket for each of the product units
20 5. The sockets are arranged in a simple line so that the product units 5 sit adjacent to
   each other with minimal gap. As such six distinct products can be conveniently
   carried in a simple plate-like shape (i.e. a shape that is three times longer than it is
   wide). In this example the space occupied by the units 5 is at least ten times as long
   as it is thick. In this example the body 3 is marginally thicker than the space occupied
25 by the product units 5.
   In this example, the system 1 is of a similar size to an iPhone 7 PluSTM. Another
   variant is of similar size to an iPhone  6 TM

    P1399AUAU
                                                5
   A lid 7 is pivotally mounted at hinge 9 to the body 3 to pivot from the open
   configuration illustrated to a closed configuration in which the lid 7 fits over the upper
   ends of the product units 5 and clips on to the body 3 to stay closed and thereby hold
   the product units 5 in their respective sockets. Lidless variants of the system 1 are
 5 also contemplated. By way of example the products could simply clip into their
   sockets.
   At its lower end the body 3 defines a powder compartment 11 for holding makeup
   powder and a suitable application pad. The compartment 11 is closed by a panel 13
   the inner surface of which is a mirror. The panel is pivotally connected to a body 3 to
10 pivot between a closed configuration in which the compartment 11 is closed and the
   mirrored interior of the panel 13 is protected. In this configuration the unit is
   conveniently transportable without leakage of the powder or scratching of the mirror.
   When the panel 13 is pivoted to its open configuration the mirrored interior of the
   panel is presented for use as a mirror and the powder and application pad are made
15 accessible.
   The body 3 carries at its rear a suitable arrangement of magnetic portions 15 by
   which the system 1 can be mutually connected to an identical system 1 to form an
   expanded transport system for carrying twelve product units.
   The arrangement of magnets is also configured to enable the unit to be conveniently
20 mounted to any convenient magnetically co-operable body of material, e.g. to the
   door of one's gym locker whereby the system 1 can be conveniently positioned for
   convenient access to the product units 5 whilst the mirror interior of the panel 13 is
   conveniently positioned for use as a mirror.
   The body 3 is preferably predominantly formed of plastic whereby upon removal of
25 the product units 5 the sockets can be easily washed out.
   Whilst it is contemplated in other variants of the system that the lid 7 and/or panel 13
   might be attached by other modes, pivotal connection is preferred so that these
   components are not freely lost.

    P1399AUAU
                                               6
   The system 1 may carry four foundation colours that are intelligently formulated to
   mimic and blend with a user's skin tone. The foundations may be mixtures to
   customize to a user's skin type. A single pump of foundation may be highly
   pigmented with special concentrated formulation that is more than enough to provide
 5 full coverage for full face and neck.
   Advantageously users may customize their pumps with their own selection of various
   long-lasting products. Each system 1 can hold six products of the user's choice.
   The system 1 may hold a 4-in-1 brush set tube which includes eye/brow definer,
   brow/lash brush, lip brush, eye shadow brush and eye shadow blending brush,
10 enabling makeup application whether at home, work or on the go effortless.
   The system 1 is preferably fitted with a mirror, translucent powder and sponge
   suitable for all skin types. The sponge preferably has angled application portions,
   each of which can blend different products enabling full face application with just one
   sponge.
15 With the system 1 users can select their own favourite products and carry with them
   all the time. They can reapply and retouch their makeup anywhere they go.
   Travelling and holidays are exceptionally convenient with the lightweight system 1
   being easy to pack and transport.
   Preferred variants of the system 1 are configured to enable users to use screw top
20 product units 5 without removing those units from the body 3. This arrangement
   advantageously allows products such as nail polish or mascara to be applied without
   having to separate the main body of the product unit 5 from the body 3.
   According to these preferred forms, the body 3 is configured to receive the main body
   of a screw-top product unit whilst the screw top is accessible resist rotation of the
25 screw top product units within their respective sockets. In a rudimentary
   implementation of the concept, the product units and the sockets may have

    P1399AUAU
                                                  7
   mechanically interlocking features to resist rotation. By way of example, the product
   units and sockets may have complementary square profiles.
   Whilst square-profiled product units are a possibility, the present inventor believes
   that consumers prefer the elegant clean lines of cylindrical product units without
 5 visible keyways etc. This presents a more challenging technical problem.
   Preferred forms of the body 3 are fitted with the resilient unit 17 of Figure 5. The
   resilient unit is formed of a suitable elastomeric material and includes a respective
   embracing portion 19 for each of the sockets and configured to embrace the product
   unit of that socket.
10 Each embracing portion 19 includes a circular array of axial-ribs 21 for gripping the
   cylindrical exterior of the product unit. In this case there are eight equispaced ribs 21
   in each embracing portion. The embracing portion 19 further includes an inwardly
   directed flange 23 positioned to underlie the product unit 5 and be at the end of the
   socket. Accordingly, a user to open or close the screw top product unit can push that
15 product unit downwardly against the portion 23 for improved gripping if need be. This
   resilient mounting arrangement also serves to reduce any rattling of the product units
   within their sockets. Other resilient arrangements are possible.
   In this example, a respective tab 25 projects radially outwards from each of the
   embracing portions 19. The tabs ensure that the unit 17 remains secure and properly
20 aligned with the body 3 so that it does not move when the product units are inserted
   or removed.
   In this example the product units have a cylindrical exterior with a diameter of 11mm.
   A cylindrical surface is an example of a revolved surface. Gripping portions akin to
   the gripping portions 21 may be applied to advantageous effect in relation to other
25 revolved surfaces such as conical surfaces.
   This advantageous arrangement enables multiple health and beauty products to be
   used quickly and easily. By way of way of example, one of the screw top product
   units might be mascara including a brush fixed to the screw top whilst another of the

   P1399AUAU
                                                 8
   product units is an eye-lining pencil. In this way, those two product units can be
   conveniently held in the left hand with the aid of the body 3 whilst the right hand
   conveniently picks and chooses the product units as required. Advantageously, this
   allows multiple health and/or beauty products to be used in quick succession without
 5 having to use a benchtop or any similar horizontal surface. In some scenarios there is
   no such surface available. In other circumstances, such as public restrooms, such
   surfaces may not be sanitary.
   In the illustrated example, the resilient gripping material is carried by the body. In
   other implementations this material may be carried by the product unit(s).
10

    P1399AUAU
                                                9
   CLAIMS
   1.    A beauty case including one or more sockets;
   each respective socket of the one or more sockets being configured to receive a
   respective product unit having a respective screw top; and
 5 each said respective socket being configured to resist rotation of the respective
   product unit to enable the respective screw top to be opened and closed whilst the
   respective product unit is in the respective socket.
   2.     The case of claim 1 wherein each said respective socket has resilient material
   for gripping the respective product unit.
10 3.     The case of claims 2 wherein the resilient material of each said respective
   socket includes material for gripping a revolved exterior of the respective product
   unit.
   4.     The case of claim 2 or 3 wherein the resilient material of each said respective
   socket includes material at an end of the respective socket and against which a user
15 may pushing the respective product unit for improved gripping.
   5.     The case of claim 2, 3 or 4 including a single piece of resilient material including
   a respective portion for each said respective socket.
   6.     The case of any one of claims 1 to 5 configured to carry three or more product
   units each of which is at least 3 times as long as it is wide; and
20 including a body for holding the product units parallel and adjacent to each other and
   so as to occupy a region of space at least 3 times as long as it is thick.
   7.    A system, for carrying health and/or beauty product, including
   three or more product units each of which is at least 3 times as long as it is wide;

    P1399AUAU
                                               10
   a body for holding the product units parallel and adjacent to each other and so as to
   occupy a region of space at least 3 times as long as it is thick.
   8.     The system of claim 1 wherein the body defines a respective socket for each for
   the product units.
 5 9.     The system of claim 7 or 8 including a lid for overlying and capturing the product
   units.
   10.    A system, for carrying health and/or beauty product, including
   three or more product units;
   a body defining a respective socket for each for the product units; and
10 a lid for overlying and capturing the product units.
   11.    The system of any one of claims 7 to 10 including a portion mounted to pivot,
   relative to the body, from a closed configuration in which a mirror is protected to an
   open configuration in which the mirror is presented for use.
   12.    A system, for carrying health and/or beauty product, including
15 three or more product units;
   a body for holding the product units; and
   a portion mounted to pivot, relative to the body, from a closed configuration in which
   a mirror is protected to an open configuration in which the mirror is presented for use.
   13.    The system of claim 7 or 12 including a powder compartment closed by the
20 portion when the portion is in it closed configuration.
   14.    The system of any one of claims 7 to 13 including one or more magnetic
   portions by which the body is connectable to a mutually identical body.

   P1399AUAU
                                             11
  15.   A system, for carrying health and/or beauty product, including
  three or more product units;
  a body for holding the product units; and
  one or more magnetic portions by which the body is connectable to a mutually
5 identical body.
  16.    In combination the beauty case of any one of claims 1 to 6 and at least one said
  respective product unit.

                                                <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
        7
                             Fig 2
                    5
1
        9               15                                                1/1
                                                           Fig 4
                                           21   25
    3
                                                     19
                        13                                25
                                                                   17
                                      23
                        11
            Fig 1
                                                Fig 5
                              Fig 3

