ABSTRACT
A system and a method that identifies and tracks, either indoors or outdoors, a person or persons
causing a threat to public safety. It provides emergency personnel a visual representation of the
position of an individual or groups of individuals relative to the threat either indoors or outdoors. It
provides individual users with their location relative to the threat. It further provides dynamic and
updated visual and audible information to users of an evacuation route away from the threat.

                                  SYSTEM COMPONENTS
                      Emergency Personnel -Remote Location Server
      WEB                                                            COMMUNICATION
   FRONT END    ALGORITHMS            ALOGORITHMS      ALGORITHMS         INTERFACES
               AUDIO ANALYSIS       USER AND THREAT   DYNAMIC ROUTE MOBILE/BLUETOOTH/
               VIDEO ANALYSIS      RELATIVE PROXIMITY  CALCULATION  WI-FI/PAGING/SIGFOX
                                            User 1
                                          SMARTDEVICE
Visual Representation on User Smart Device
stISdaftAU-9       14
    JiVCUATE RED ZONE
   adrow Wil
 Evs Route
    9   ACE SHOG9RU
           YOU

          Editorial Note
            <removed-apn>
There are five pages of description only

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[001]
A system and a method that identifies and tracks, either indoors or outdoors, a person or persons
causing a threat to public safety. It provides emergency personnel a visual representation of the
position of an individual or groups of individuals relative to the threat either indoors or outdoors. It
provides individual users with their location relative to the threat. It further provides dynamic and
updated visual and audible information to users of an evacuation route away from the threat.
 [002]
It should be noted that reference to the prior art herein is not to be taken as an acknowledgement
that such prior art constitutes common general knowledge in the art.
[003]
Active killers are a significant problem in campus environments such as universities, hospitals and
other such environments.
Additionally, fires, explosions, chemical spills etc intentional or otherwise present a threat to human
life.
[004]
In the case of active killer scenario these crimes are commonly perpetrated by individuals in areas
where crowds of people congregate.
Time is critical when responding to an active killer situation, and decision making can only be made
once significant intelligence on the event becomes available.
During an attack emergency personnel's priority is to evacuate people from the danger area as
quickly and efficiently as possible.
[005]
Current systems are based on loud speaker systems or visual signage. These known systems have
many disadvantages.
[006}
A serious disadvantage is the delay that occurs between first emergency calls being logged and the
time to gather the information and identify location of the threat.
[007]
A serious disadvantage is the lack of geographic and spatial information available to emergency
personnel and to the public within the immediate environment. They may be unaware of the
location of the threat and therefore are confused as to which direction take and in fact may be
endangering themselves further by proceeding in the wrong direction.
[008]
Another disadvantage occurs if the threat is mobile and moving and updated information is not
relayed to emergency personnel and the public.

[009]
Another disadvantage is the lack of accurate information or in some cases mis-information
communicated to emergency personnel through panicked members of the public.
[010]
Another disadvantage occurs If the public do not know the optimal route or plurality of routes to
escape the threat.
 [011]
Clearly it would be advantageous if a method and system could be devised that allowed emergency
personnel to identify a threat to people's safety. It would be a further advantage to track the threat.
It would be a further advantage if emergency personnel have an overall view of the exact position of
the public relative to the threat. It would be further advantage to alert the public of the location of a
threat to personal safety, it would be of further advantage to provide a visual representation of
geographic and spatial position of the threat relative to an individual's position, it would be a further
advantage to provide a dynamic visual representation of optimal escape routes from the danger. It
would be a further advantage still to access all cameras and microphones within the danger zone to
secure further intelligence on the threat.
STATEMENT OF THE INVENTION
[012]
According to the first aspect, the present invention provides a means for emergency personnel to
identify the location of the threat based on the positional information derived from the mobile
duress calls received from people in the immediate environment.
[013]
According to another aspect, the invention provides a means for emergency personnel to enable the
microphones and cameras of individual users or plurality of users' mobile devices within the
immediate environment of the threat.
[014]
According to another aspect of the invention, a means is provided to transmit the acoustic signal and
sounds from the enabled microphones back to a server at a remote location
[015]
According to another aspect, the invention provides a means to analyse the acoustic signals and
sounds received at the remote location to identify the sounds of gunshots and/or explosions.
[016]
According to another aspect, the invention provides a means to analyse the sounds received at the
remote location to identify spoken keywords.
[017]
According to another aspect, the invention provides a means to analyse the sounds received at the
central location to identify levels of stress in an individual user or plurality of users within the
immediate environment of the threat.

[018]
According to another aspect of the invention the analysis of the acoustic signals and sounds and
their originating location enables emergency personnel to identify the location of the threat, either
indoors or outdoors.
[019]
According to another aspect, the present invention provides a means to display for emergency
response personnel, an individual's position or plurality of individuals positions based on positional
information received from the individual users mobile, either indoors or outdoors.
[020]
In accordance with a still further aspect of the invention the system provides a means for emergency
personnel to visually identify the source of the threat.
[021]
In accordance with still a further aspect of the invention the system provides a means to transmit
the location and nature of the threat to individual users or plurality of users on their mobile devices.
[022]
In accordance with a still further aspect the system provides a means that visually displays the
position of the individual user or plurality of users relative to the threat either indoors or outdoors.
[023]
In accordance with a still further aspect of the invention provides a means update the relative
position of the threat to the individual users or plurality of users if the spatial location of the threat
or the user changes.
[024]
In accordance with a still further aspect of the invention provides a means that dynamically
calculates and continually refines the optimum escape route for an individual user or plurality of
users.
 [025]
In accordance with a still further aspect the system provides a means that visually displays the
optimum escape route of the individual user or plurality of users.
 [026]
In accordance with a still further aspect of the invention provides a means update the visual display
of the optimum escape route to the individual users or plurality of users if the spatial location of the
threat or the user changes.

[0027]
Preferably, the method for displaying the positions of an individual user or plurality of users will be a
cloud based software application available to emergency personnel on any internet enabled devices
including smartphones, smart tablets or computers.
[0028]
Preferably the method for identifying the initial location of the threat will be through a software
application that identifies the location pattern of the duress alarms and mobile calls located on a
central server at a remote location.
[029]
Preferably the threat will be continuously tracked relative to users in the area using a method that
may comprise one or more of the following; (a) a software application that will analyse audio signals
from the users microphones and identify gun shots, (b) a software application that will analyse the
audio signals from the users microphones and identify certain keywords, (c) a software application
that will analyse audio signals from the users microphones and individual stress levels.
[030]
Preferably the threat will be continuously tracked directly using a method that may comprise one or
more of the following; (a) a software application that identifies a threats temperature, (b) a
software application that will recognise the threat's facial features, (c) a software application that
identifies the threats walking gait, (d) a software application that identifies the threats unique
electronic signature.
[031]
Preferably the method for tracking individual users or plurality of users may comprise one or more
of the following; (a) GPS tracking, (b) Blue Tooth tracking beacons, (c) Wi-Fi system, (d) Near Field
Communications system, (e) SigFox, (f) GSM.
 [032]
Preferably the system for communicating from the cloud based application to the individual user or
plurality of users will comprise one or more a digital transceiver using wireless or wired transmission
of the following; (a) SMS, (b) Internet Data Connection from 2g onwards, (c) IP, (d) Bluetooth, (e)
Wi-Fi, (f) Paging protocols, (g) any telecommunications method for voice and data.
[033]
Preferably the method for displaying the position of the threat to the individual user or plurality of
users may comprise a smartphone, smart tablet or computer.
[034]
Preferably the remote computer server will comprise one or more of the following; (a) a
communications system that can transmit and receive both voice and data, (b) a software
application that can display individual users or plurality of users positions, (c) a software application
that calculates and displays the relative position of individual users or plurality of users to the threat,
(d) a software application that sends information to the individual users or plurality of users, ((f) a
software application that calculates the optimum escape route for individual users or plurality of

users software application that records and stores images and videos in a database, (g) a software
application that can communicate with other users in the immediate area, (h) a software application
that analyses audio input for gun shots, (j) a software application that analyses audio input for
certain keywords, (k) a software application that analyses audio input for individual stress levels.

      Editorial Note
         <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS
   1.  An emergency notification system comprising a means for identifying a person or
       persons intending to harm the safety of others and a means for geographically locating
       the intended threat, outdoors or indoors, relative to an individual or plurality of
       individuals raising the alarm.
   2.  An emergency notification system as in Claim 1 comprising a means for tracking the
       threat relative to users as the threat moves throughout an area by analysing audio and
       visual input received from an individual users or plurality of individual users also in the
       area.
   3.  An emergency notification system as in Claim 1 and Claim 2 with a method to identify
       the location, either indoors or outdoors, of an individual user or plurality of users within
       the immediate environment and displaying these locations for emergency personnel.
   4.  An emergency notification system as in previous claims that has a means to
       communicate the nature of the threat and visually represent the relative location of the
       threat to an individual user or plurality of users.
   5.  An emergency notification system in previous claims that has a means to identify
       optimal escape routes away from the threat and communicate these to individual users
       or plurality of users and dynamically alters the route based on updated positional,
       acoustical, visual and environmental information.

<removed-date>
                       Editorial Note
                        <removed-apn>
              There are three pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Visual Representation on User Smart Device

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           Operational Flow:

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
