                                     ABSTRACT
                       REMITTANCE SYSTEM AND METHOD
   A remittance system comprising a remittance platform operable to process a
 5 remittance request originating from a sender to a target beneficiary; the
   remittance request comprising a primary account number (PAN) of the
   sender; the remittance platform further operable to create an electronic
   account for the target beneficiary upon determining that the target beneficiary
   does not have an approved PAN for remittance to take place; wherein the
10 creation of the electronic account comprises a link between a unique identifier
   of the target beneficiary and the generation of a primary account number for
   the beneficiary.
   Fig. 3

      3/8
F,-I
     1A
          Fig. -

                        REMITTANCE SYSTEM AND METHOD
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a remittance system and method. The system
   and method are particularly relevant, but not limited to facilitating the
 5 remittance of monies remotely and will be described in such a context.
   Background Art
   The following discussion of the background to the invention is intended to
   facilitate an understanding of the present invention only. It should be
   appreciated that the discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that
10 any of the material referred to was published, known or part of the common
   general knowledge of the person skilled in the art in any jurisdiction as at the
   priority date of the invention.
   Current remittance service providers include banks, remittance agents, ATM,
   and telecommunications carrier, amongst others.      However, in order to utilize
15 such remittance service, the sender and beneficiary both have to subscribe to
   a particular service provider and each have to have a Primary Account
   Number (PAN) with the remittance service provider. The PAN is a unique
   identifier.  For example, on a credit/debit card, the PAN is the sixteen (16)
   alpha-numeric card number.      The bank card number merely identifies the
20 card, which is then electronically associated by the issuing organisation with
   one of its customers and then to the customer's designated bank accounts.
   The remittance service providers typically charge a fee for the use of their
   remittance service.
   The above arrangement however is restrictive in the sense that it restricts a
25 relatively sizable number of overseas workers, such as Overseas Filipino
   Workers (OFWs) who may not have a PAN number or may be restricted from
   having one due to inability to meet certain criteria such as minimum income,
   residency requirements etc.
   Within the existing remittance structure, should a sender wish to remit to a
30 beneficiary having an account with a different service provider, either the
                                          1

   sender or beneficiary will have to open another account so that there is a
   'matching' of service providers for the remittance to take place.
   As an example, for any remittance services using network operators, such as
   telecommunications service providers, the sender has to have an electronic
 5 wallet account only as the fund source (of sender) while the target beneficiary
   mobile number must have a pre-linked PAN linked to an account of the
   telecommunications network.
   The present invention seeks to improve on the existing remittance systems
   and methods to cater to overseas workers and in addition reduces or prevents
10 the occurrence of transaction fraud to at least some extent while allowing
   greater flexibility for the senders and beneficiaries to send/receive the
   remittance without the need for 'account matching'.
   Disclosure of the Invention
   Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
15 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
   Furthermore, throughout the specification, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "include" or variations such as "includes" or "including",
20 will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of
   integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
   The invention is developed to address the challenges of remittance
   transaction by knowing/memorizing the exact account number of PAN of
   beneficiary or target account.
25 The invention seeks to address the un-bank beneficiary customer through a
   remittance partner and fulfilment / encashment centre for the sending &
   receiving of remittance transaction and option to en-cash the remittance
   amount to beneficiary.
   Another aspect of the invention seeks to avoid the risk of exposing the
30 beneficiary confidential account number or PAN, which, once exposed, may
   be susceptible to possible fraud or scheming
                                            1)

   Another aspect of the invention seeks to provide easy way of remittance
   transaction from sender to using the beneficiary's Mobile number.
   Enhancement on this pending patent is to open to any source PAN
   (MasterCard, Visa, Bank CASA, etc.) or credit card while the destination MIN
 5 can be any pre-linked PAN or provide default auto-enrol from participating
   receiving bank virtual PAN inventory for auto-link to beneficiary's mobile
   number.
   The enhancement of auto enrol feature is no longer limited to the existing
   Smart Money Account only and is applicable if the Mobile number has no
10 available PAN (pre-linked account) where the remittance platform will execute
   auto-enrol by dispensing the virtual PAN that is available in database
   inventory to link as default PAN to mobile number.
   Another enhancement is the sender will receive the notification via SMS if
   mobile number is available or via email of the email number is available in the
15 transaction request. Compared the prior, the sender PAN always assumed
   linked to mobile number as mandatory field.
   The beneficiary will receive SMS notification with reference number indicates
   the amount transferred from Sender PAN (mask form) to beneficiary mobile
   number. If the PAN is virtual due to auto-enrol then the beneficiary will also
20 advice (thru SMS) to visit nearest Fulfilment/Encashment Centre or Receiving
   bank branch to encash their money using the reference number and/or apply
   to personalized their virtual PAN
   This pending patent also introduce the easy and secured way to encash the
   remittance transaction at the Fulfilment / Encashment Centre using the
25 reference number and a one-time token ID.
   Another advantage associated with the invention is the flexibility of remittance
   transaction by eliminating the limitation of Smart Money as default source and
   target PAN linked to mobile number.
   The invention also seeks to address the limitation of bank presence in the
30 remote areas where the license/authorized remittance partner agent and/or
   fulfillment / encashment centre are present to provide service to sender and

   beneficiary for accepting sending & receiving of remittance transaction and
   option to encash the remittance amount to beneficiary.
   In accordance with an aspect of the invention there is provided a remittance
   system and method comprising a remittance platform operable to receive,
 5 validate and process a request for remittance sent be a sender to a target
   beneficiary; the remittance platform further operable to create a virtual
   account for the beneficiary upon discovering that the target beneficiary is not
   an account holder of the remittance system; the virtual account further
   comprising a link between a personal identifier of the virtual account and a
10 generated primary account number.
   In accordance with a first aspect of the invention there is provided a
   remittance system comprising a remittance platform operable to process a
   remittance request originating from a sender to a target beneficiary; the
   remittance request comprising a primary account number (PAN) of the
15 sender; the remittance platform further operable to create an electronic
   account for the target beneficiary upon determining that the target beneficiary
   does not have an approved PAN for remittance to take place; wherein the
   creation of the electronic account comprises a link between a unique identifier
   of the target beneficiary and the generation of a primary account number for
20 the beneficiary. Preferably, the unique identifier is a mobile identification
   number (PAN) of the beneficiary.
   Preferably, the unique identifier is one of the following: a mobile identification
   number of the target beneficiary, and a social network account of the target
   beneficiary.
25 Preferably, the PAN of the sender is linked to a fund source.
   Preferably, the fund source is a bank, a credit card company, or other
   financial institutions.
   Preferably, the beneficiary PAN is generated to match the fund source of the
   sender.
30 Preferably, the beneficiary PAN is generated to match the PAN of the sender.
   Preferably, the electronic account comprises an electronic wallet.
                                           A

   Preferably, the electronic wallet is linked to a plurality of identifiers of the
   sender or beneficiary.
   Preferably, the electronic account comprises an electronic wallet.
   Preferably, the electronic wallet is linked to a plurality of identifiers of the
 5 sender or beneficiary.
   Preferably, the plurality of identifiers include email address; social network
   accounts; and mobile identification number.
   Preferably, the remittance platform is in data communication with a customer
   profile database.
10 Preferably, if the sender is not linked to a fund source, the primary account
   number of the sender is provided by an authorized remittance agent.
   In accordance with a second aspect of the invention there is provided a
   method of remittance from a sender to a target beneficiary comprising
   receiving, by a remittance platform, a remittance request originating from the
15 sender; the remittance request comprising a primary account number (PAN)
   of the sender; determining whether the target beneficiary has an approved
   PAN for remittance to take place; and creating an electronic account for the
   target beneficiary if there is no approved PAN; wherein the creation of the
   electronic account comprises a link between a unique identifier of the target
20 beneficiary and the generation of a primary account number (PAN) for the
   beneficiary.
   Preferably, the unique identifier is one of the following: a mobile identifier of
   the target beneficiary, and a social network account of the target beneficiary.
   Preferably, the PAN of the sender is linked to a fund source.
25 Preferably, the fund source is a bank, a credit card company, or other
   financial institutions.
   Preferably, the beneficiary PAN is generated to match the fund source of the
   sender.
   Preferably, the beneficiary PAN is generated to match the PAN of the sender.
30 Preferably, the electronic account comprises an electronic wallet.

   Preferably, the electronic wallet is linked to a plurality of identifiers of the
   sender or beneficiary.
   Preferably, the plurality of identifiers includes email address; social network
   accounts; and mobile identification number.
 5 Brief Description of the Drawings
   The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   Fig. 1 illustrates a scenario where a sender through a sender bank (via over
   the counter or portal channel) remits monies to a beneficiary where the
10 beneficiary mobile identification number is linked with a primary account
   number (PAN) in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
   Fig. 2 illustrates a scenario where a sender through a sender bank (via over
   the counter or portal channel) remits monies to a beneficiary where the
   beneficiary mobile identification number is not linked with a primary account
15 number (PAN) in accordance with another embodiment of the invention;
   Fig. 3 illustrates an unbanked scenario of remittance transaction through
   remittance via a partner agent where the Sender is unbanked and send cash
   remittance transaction to beneficiary's mobile identification number (MIN) in
   accordance with another embodiment of the invention;
20 Fig. 4 is a flow chart illustrating the overview process of remitting monies in
   accordance with another embodiment of the invention;
   Fig. 5 is a flow chart illustrating the remittance transaction and the
   assumptions involved;
   Fig. 6 is a flow chart illustrating the crediting process to an existing funding
25 account and the assumptions involved;
   Fig. 7 is a flow chart illustrating the application of a funding account to receive
   any remittance; and
   Fig. 8 is a flow chart illustrating the withdrawal of remittance received.

   Other arrangements of the invention are possible and, consequently, the
   accompanying drawings are not to be understood as superseding the
   generality of the description of the invention.
 5 Description of Embodiments of the Invention
   In accordance with an embodiment of the invention and with reference to Fig.
   1 there is a remittance system 10 comprising a sender (inclusive of sender
   device) 12 operable to send a remittance request 14 via a bank portal or
   physical bank 16. Remittance system 10 comprises a remittance platform 20
10 operable to receive, validate and process remittance request 14 originating
   from the sender 12. Remittance system 10 may be hosted within a
   telecommunications network provider. The sender device 12 may be a mobile
   phone or smartphone having a mobile identification number or MSISDN. The
   sender may compose his remittance request 14 using SMS, USSD, etc.
15 Sender device 12 may be installed with the necessary user interface for
   assisting the sender 12 to compose the remittance request 14.
   Sender 12 has a virtual or electronic card account (credit card/debit card) with
   the bank 16. The electronic card account is associated with his primary
   account number PAN issued by the card issuers in accordance with
20 established standards such as the sixteen digit ISO/IEC 7812. Such an
   account enables the sender 12 to remit monies to a beneficiary 40.
   The card issuer such as, but not limited to MastercardTM provides an acquiring
   gateway 22 to facilitate 'card not present' transactions. Acquiring Gateway 22
   ensures that remittance request 14 is sent under a secured environment.
25 Upon receiving a remittance request 14 either via the bank portal or physical
   bank 16, the remittance request 14 is sent through a payment network 24
   which may be provided by the card issuer and/or the bank. Acquiring Gateway
   22 provides the integration between Sender Bank 16 and remittance platform
   20 to accept remittance requests 14 from a variety of providers such as
30 Mastercard@, VISA@ and other Payment brands. This acquiring gateway can
   be substituted or provided by payment brand like MIGS (MasterCard Internet
                                            -7

   Gateway Service) for Mastercard@ or can be substituted or provided by any
   Acquiring Bank.
   Remittance platform 20 is operable to be in data communication with a
   customer database 26. Customer database 26 comprises the profile of
 5 customers     having accounts with the remittance system 10. Customer
   database 26 is further operable to store the linking of sender/beneficiary PAN
   & MIN and other related customer information for KYC (know your customer)
   rule, with regulatory implementations such as the required PCI-DSS (Payment
   Card Industry-Data Security Standard) & AMLA (anti-money laundering)
10 compliance. This can be substituted by participating receiving bank customer
   database depending of agreed commercial and technical integration.
   The remittance platform 20 is further operable to be in data communication
   with a plurality of beneficiary remittance channels. These channels include
   email server 28, SMS centre 30, card host system 32 of the beneficiary's
15 financial institution (such as a bank), and the IPVPN/public Internet 34 for the
   sending of notifications and/or completion of the remittance process.
   Terminals 38 such as encashment centre 38a, ATMs 38b, receiving bank
   over-the-counter 38c etc. are provided for the withdrawal or encashment of
   the remittance sum of monies. The encashment feature provides the
20 Fulfillment/Encashment Centre 38a office to provide encashment facility
   based on the reference number of remittance transaction
   Remittance platform 20 is further operable to supply virtual PAN with an 'auto
   enrol' process for mobile number (MIN) with no PAN. This can be any virtual
   PAN from participating banks as default Issuer and Receiving Bank that is
25 covered by commercial agreement for allowing direct integration of remittance
   transaction with Fulfillment/Encashment Center and Remittance Platform 20.
   Remittance platform 20 may also implement a card personalization feature.
   The card personalization feature is a required integration to the receiving
   Bank 32 card management system as the card Issuer to initiate the card
30 personalization process of virtual card via Fulfillment/Encashment Center
   Office 38a.
                                            Q

   A settlement process is important to complement the remittance system 10 for
   completion and settlement of the remittance process. The settlement process
   may be based on the agreed commercial settlement with a remittance partner
   18, sender bank 16, fulfillment/encashment Center 38a, remittance platform
 5 20 and receiving bank 32.
   In case the sender remittance and the receiver's encashment are in different
   currencies, a foreign exchange (forex) feature may be required. Such
   currency rates conversion is normally computed at the destination PAN Card
   Management      System     (CMS)  based    on  their prevailing  FOREX    rate
10 conversion.
   ATM Withdrawal 38b is a terminal providing the beneficiary to immediately
   withdraw the remittance amount via ATM if PAN and physical card linked to
   beneficiary mobile number is available for ATM withdrawals. This can be
   substituted by open-the counter transaction to the receiving bank.
15 The embodiment with reference to Fig. 1 will be described in the context of a
   sender 12 making a remittance request to be sent to a beneficiary 40. It is to
   be appreciated that beneficiary 40 has a mobile identification number such as
   the MSISDN.
   The sender 12 goes to the bank 16 for a remittance transaction using his/her
20 primary account number (PAN) issued by card issuer and linked to a fund
   source. The sender then specifies the target mobile identification number
   (MIN) and other information relating to the beneficiary 40.
   The sender bank Card Management Centre (CMS) authorizes the remittance
   transaction and then send the target remittance request 14 either directly to
25 Acquiring Gateway 22 (based on available direct integration) or via a
   remittance protocol of Payment Brand network (e.g. 'MoneySend' process
   described in Fig. 4) or Visa@ Money Transfer.
   The acquiring Gateway 22 receives and validates the remittance request and
   then route the transaction request 14 to the remittance platform 20 based on
30 transaction type.

   The remittance platform 20 further validates the remittance transaction
   request 14 and check the specified beneficiary MIN against the customer
   profile database 26 if the MIN is already linked with an approved PAN for
   purpose of completing the remittance.
 5 Once it is determined that the beneficiary MIN is already linked with an
   approved PAN, the remittance platform 20 will route the remittance request 14
   to the receiving card host 32 Content Management System (CMS) based on
   the issuer of beneficiary PAN linked to MIN with the authorized remittance
   credit. The receiving card host 32 checks if the linkage is properly made and
10 valid, and replies back to Remittance Platform 20 on the status (i.e.
   successful or unsuccessful).
   Upon determining that the status is successful, the remittance platform 20
   sends a notification to Sender (MIN or Email Address based on available data
   element in the transaction request) and Beneficiary MIN.
15 Both Sender 12 and Beneficiary 40 will receive the remittance transaction
   notification in the following forms:
   a. The sender 12 will receive the successful remittance notification with
   reference number through SMS or Email Address based on available data
   element in the transaction request; and
20 b. The beneficiary 40 will receive the successful remittance with reference
   number.
   The beneficiary 40 may encash the remittance amount either
   i.      via Fulfillment / Encashment center 38a if his PAN linked to MIN has no
   physical card yet
25 ii.     via ATM 38b if his PAN has physical card and allowed ATM transaction
   iii.    via Receiving Bank Over-the-Counter 38c remittance transaction
   with/without physical card.
   In accordance with another embodiment of the invention and with reference to
   Fig. 2 where like numerals reference like parts, there comprises a case
                                          1t

   scenario where the Sender 12 send through the Sender Bank Over-the
   Counter or Portal remittance channel 16 using his/her primary account
   number (PAN) for remittance transaction to a beneficiary 40 using the mobile
   identification number (MIN) for identification, in the specific case where the
 5 beneficiary 40 does not have a PAN.
   Sender 12 goes to Sender Bank Over-the-counter channel 16 for remittance
   request 14 using his/her PAN as fund source and specifies the target MIN and
   Beneficiary information.
   Sender bank Card Management Centre authorizes the remittance request 14
10 then send the target remittance request 14 either directly to Acquiring
   gateway (GW) 22 based on available direct integration or via remittance
   protocol of Payment Brand network (e.g. MoneySend, Visa Money Transfer)
   24.
   Acquiring Gateway 22 receives and validates the transaction request 14 and
15 then route the transaction request 14 to the remittance platform 20 based on
   transaction type.
   The remittance platform 20 will validate and note that the specified beneficiary
   MIN has no link to an account or PAN. In such a case, the remittance platform
   20 will invoke the dispense process to record inventory for available virtual
20 PAN as default issuer and receiving bank. The remittance platform will invoke
   an auto-enrol process to generate a virtual PAN based on the MIN of the
   beneficiary and store the linking MIN and virtual PAN information.
   The remittance platform 20 will route the remittance request 14 to the
   receiving card host 32 Content Management System (CMS) based on the
25 issuer of beneficiary PAN linked to MIN with the authorized remittance credit.
   The receiving card host 32 checks if the linkage is properly made and valid,
   and replies back to Remittance Platform 20 on the status (i.e. successful or
   unsuccessful).
   Remittance Platform 20 then sends the notification to Sender (MIN or Email
30 Address based on available data element in the transaction request) and the
   Beneficiary MIN
                                          1 1

   Both Sender 12 and Beneficiary 40 may receive the transaction notifications
   in one or both of the following form:
   a.      Sender 12 will receive the successful transaction with reference
   number thru SMS 30 or Email Address 28 based on available data element in
 5 the transaction request.
   b.      Beneficiary will receive the successful transaction thru SMS with
   reference number and advice message to visit nearest Fulfilment/Encashment
   Centre 38a or Receiving bank branch 38c to en-cash their money using the
   reference number and/or apply to personalized their virtual PAN. The option
10 of ATM is not available to the beneficiary 40 as he/she does not have a
   physical card yet.
   The beneficiary 40 may en-cash the remittance amount and/or personalize
   virtual PAN either:
   i.      via the Fulfilment / Encashment centre 38a if his PAN linked to MIN
15 has no physical card yet; or
   ii.     via the Receiving Bank Over-the-Counter 38c remittance transaction.
   In accordance with another embodiment of the invention and with reference to
   Fig. 3 where like numerals reference like parts there is a scenario where the
   sender 12 does not have any account with any financial institutions, such as
20 banks, for performing remittance. This embodiment is particularly suitable for
   overseas workers, who may not have a bank account in the resident countries
   they are in.    The transaction request 14 through remittance is done via an
   authorized partner agent 18, where the Sender is un-bank and the cash
   remittance transaction will be sent to a beneficiary 40 account linked to the
25 beneficiary's MIN.
   The Sender 12 goes a nearest Remittance Partner Agent 18 branch for
   generating the remittance request 14. He specifies the Beneficiary MIN and
   other Know Your Customer (KYC) related information.
   The Remittance Partner Agent 18 will receive the monies to be remitted
30 (cash) from Sender 12 and then send the online remittance request 14 using
                                          11)

   Remittance Agent PAN as fund source to beneficiary MIN as a target pseudo
   PAN.
   The Remittance Platform 20 will validate the remittance request 14 and check
   the specified beneficiary MIN against customer profile database 26 if the
 5 specified beneficiary MIN has no link of account or PAN. Upon successful
   validation, the remittance platform 20 will
   a.      invoke the dispense process to record inventory for available Virtual
   PAN of the same issuer bank of Remittance Partner Agent PAN for linkage
   with the beneficiary MIN; and
10 b.      invoke the auto-enrol process to store the linking MIN and virtual PAN
   information.
   The remittance platform 20 will perform the PAN to PAN fund transfer to Card
   Management Centre 32 receiving bank (also the Issuer Remittance Partner
   Agent PAN). The receiving bank 32 then authorizes a fund transfer and reply
15 back to Remittance Platform 20.
   Upon successful fund transfer, the Remittance Platform 20 sends the
   successful response back to Remittance Partner Agent 18.
   The beneficiary 40 will receive the successful transaction notification with
   reference number via SMS.
20 The beneficiary 40 may encash the remittance amount either
   a.      via Fulfilment / Encashment centre 38a if his PAN linked to MIN has no
   physical card yet;
   b.      via ATM 38b if his PAN has physical card and allowed ATM
   transaction; or
25 c.      via Receiving Bank Over-the-Counter remittance transaction 38c
   with/without physical card.
   With regards to the remittance process as mentioned in the various
   embodiments, an overview is provided as shown in Fig. 4 to Fig. 8.             In
30 particular, for any remittance sent to a beneficiary account identified by a
   mobile identification number (MIN) such as the MSISDN, there exists a
   temporary holding account (known as a 'Mother PAN') that will receive the
   remittance. The remittance platform 20 will notify the beneficiary 40 that it has
                                          112

   received a remittance.      The beneficiary 40 may choose their preferred
   account where the remittance will be credited to. Once the beneficiary 40 has
   chosen the preferred account, remittance platform 20 will transfer money from
   the "Mother PAN" holding account to the Consumer account.
 5 As a proposed revenue model, the target beneficiary 40 may be charged a
   'convenience fee' when the money has been credited to the preferred
   account.
   Fig. 4 provides an overview of the remittance process in the context where the
   sender 12 or remittance agent 18 is a subscriber to a network operator
10 hosting the remittance system 10 and has an account with a fund source (i.e.
   the sender 12 and remittance agent 18 both have a PAN for initiating
   remittance). The network operator is arranged in data communication with the
   fund source. The fund source is typically a financial institution such as, but not
   limited to Mastercard@, Western UnionTM etc. The network operator has a
15 'Mother PAN' assigned by the fund source which is used to transact with the
   fund source. It is to be appreciated that the fund source has modified its
   remittance service to accept an identifier (such as MSISDNs) of the
   beneficiary target, instead of a PAN. To utilize the Mother PAN, the network
   operator would have to create an account in the content management system
20 (CMS).
   The process 400 begins with the sender 12 sending a remittance request to a
   target beneficiary 40 within the network coverage of the network operator via
   an identifier, such as the MSISDN of a mobile device of the target beneficiary
   (step 402). The target beneficiary 40 does not have a PAN and as such the
25 fund source maps the MSISDN to the Mother PAN of the network operator
   (step 404). The fund source then routes the request to the Mother PAN
   account of the network operator. The routing would include the generation of
   an ISO message comprising a unique transaction reference by the fund
   source and the target MSISDN information will be included (step 406). Upon
30 receipt of the transaction request (step 408), the network operator validates if
   the MSISDN of the target beneficiary belongs to its network or extended
   network (step 410) and different services or databases may be utilized within
   the network operator to determine the same (step 412). If the MSISDN of the
                                          1A

   target beneficiary 40 is not within the network, then a reverse transaction is
   generated by the network operator to the fund source, the fund source then
   routes the transaction reversal and informs the sender 12 (step 414 to 418).
   If the MSISDN of the target beneficiary 40 belongs to the network, then the
 5 funds are credited to the Mother PAN account (step 420), and an ISO
   response will be generated by the CMS to the fund source. Next, the network
   operator notifies the target beneficiary 40 that he/she has received a
   remittance (step 422). The notification may be sent via SMS or any other
   known communications protocol as desired. Information within the notification
10 may include the amount received, transaction reference            number, any
   convenience fee to be applied etc.
   The network operator may proceed to validate or determine if the target
   beneficiary 40 has any funding account linked to the MSISDN via any
   electronic wallet/mobile banking accounts provided/authorized/partnered by
15 the network operator in conjunction with the fund source (step 424). If the
   MSISDN is tied to a plurality of funding accounts (step 426), the target
   beneficiary 40 is given the option to determine the funding account to receive
   the remittance (step 428) and if there is only one funding account, then the
   remittance will automatically be credited to the single funding account. It is to
20 be appreciated that a facility would prompt the beneficiary 40 on which
   account he/she wishes to choose for the deposit of the remittance monies.
   Should the remittance not be credited or selected within a predetermined time
   frame, such as within 7 days, the remittance will be reversed.
   Any convenience fee or middleman fee payable to the network operator would
25 be deducted before the remittance is credited to the funding account (step
   430). Depending on the arrangement with the network operator, such
   convenience fee varies depending on the funding account selected, and may
   be waived if it is a funding account linked to an electronic wallet provided by
   the network operator. The target beneficiary may then encash the remittance
30 sum (step 432).
   If there is no funding account based on step 426, the network operator then
   notifies the target beneficiary 40 to apply for a funding account (step 434).
                                          1z

   There is a time frame given to the target beneficiary 40 to apply for the
   funding account, and if lapsed, the remittance process will be reversed.
   Once the target beneficiary 40 applies for the funding account (step 436), he
   will need to go through the necessary registration and 'Know your customer'
 5 personalization where necessary. Certain funding accounts may also allow for
   enhanced case-out facilities (step 438). Once registered, steps 428, 430 and
   432 are then followed to complete the deposit of remittance monies into the
   selected funding account.
   The process of encashment following step 432 is illustrated in Fig. 8. In
10 particular,  depending    on  the   funding  account   and    electronic wallet
   combinations, the target beneficiary may encash the remittance monies via
   ATM (withdrawal fees apply), specialized remittance centres (cash-out fees
   may apply), or over the counter (bank withdrawal fees may apply).
   In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, wherein like
15 reference numerals reference like parts, the remittance system 10 comprises
   an additional feature such that the destination mobile number (MIN) of the
   sender 12 or beneficiary 40 may be linked to the email address or other
   "destination accounts" such as an email, an electronic wallet account, and/or
   social media accounts linked to the mobile number.
20 The linkage such that the destination MIN of the sender 12 or beneficiary 40
   may be linked to the email address or other destination accounts is an
   extension     of   the    aforementioned     embodiments       of    transferring
   funds/remittance by allowing a sender 12 to transfer to a beneficiary 40
   account linked or tied to an email account and/or a host of the popular social
25 media sites, without being restricted to the MIN of the sender or beneficiary.
   A common electronic wallet account linking the various social networks, email
   accounts of the particular user (sender or beneficiary) will be needed to
   consummate the transaction between mobile to social account/s.
   For purposes of an account creation, consumers (i.e. sender or beneficiary)
30 may use their social media or email account as their Login/User ID. The
   process associated with the use of additional destination accounts is outlined
   as follows:-

   Step 1: Registration. The first step in this process is to register the consumer's
   mobile number (MIN)         and through the service provider's (i.e. network
   operator) mobile platform, link his funding account/s to his phone. He will also
   be issued a Mobile personal identification number (PIN).
 5 Once registered, the registered user will have the option to use the social
   media or email account USERID to login to his electronic wallet account.
   Step 2: Wallet Account Creation. Upon registration, the platform will generate
   and assign a particular electronic wallet for the account for the consumer.
   The electronic wallet account is created linking the fund sources and various
10 identifications. This will be a backend process since the consumer only has to
   use his mobile phone number as the account to transact.
   Step 3: Activation. There will be a one-time validation to ensure the mobile
   phone number and the source account are all linked accurately through an
   OTP (one-time-pin/password) to validate.
15 Step 4: Usage. Once activated, the customer can start using his electronic
   wallet account registered against his mobile phone.
   In terms of operation, a sender having the electronic wallet just needs to
   perform the remittance transfer by choosing a destination account and
   "charging it to his mobile phone" along with his mobile PIN.          A notification
20 message will also be sent to the mobile phone of the beneficiary.
   In addition to the above described possible linkage between social media
   accounts, mobile phone numbers etc, it is to be appreciated that additional
   "destination accounts" may be linked as part of the process to create an
   electronic wallet account.
25 The embodiment with additional linkage to social media, email accounts etc.
   provides a convenient way to transfer/send or pay among people/subscribers
   since the mobile phone is the most pervasive device by almost everyone.
   0       Introduce a differentiated transfer/payment experience through the
   mobile phone, paperless, and utilize existing digital/social media available to
30 the most "connected" people
                                            1'7

   e        Bridging the gap by integrating financial, mobile and social media
   processes and find a common access point for people to transact and carry out
   the basic financial transactions
   e        Utilizing the various embodiments of the invention, customers can
 5 perform different ways of transferring/paying/sending money aside from the
   traditional    payment channels available currently.          This allows greater
   convenience, speed and adoption of seamless, mobile technologies to be
   experienced by the subscribers.
   It is to be appreciated that the linking to a common mobile wallet to various
10 accounts and/or identifier as described enables the sender and a target
   beneficiary within matching funding account to receive remittance facilitated by
   a network operator. Linking may be performed by the network operator in
   conjunction with the fund source and creation of electronic wallets.
   By providing the remittance facility 10 to perform varied mobile transfers,
15 customers/subscribers (both sender 12 and target beneficiary 40) will enjoy
   the following features of the service:
   *      Secure transaction through a masking of the real fund source account by
          the mobile number (MIN). The remittance system 10 is advantageous in
          that it provides a seamless transaction between sender and beneficiary
20        through the use of mobile devices to facilitate the transaction.
   e      The remittance system 10 provides a convenient way of peer-to-peer
          transfer and communication.
   "      Compared to the prior art remittance centres, the described embodiments
          are paperless.
25 e      Integrated mobile wallet across channels
   e      All mobile enabled or social media enabled
   e      Quick and fast transactions
   e      Lower fees
   e      Use of Mobile as enabler for payment linked to any account for transfers
30        and payments
   "      Simpler than common Mobile Banking Platforms
   e      Destination Accounts are various with better coverage across media
                                            1Q

   e     The social media or email account can be used as a Login/User ID
   The invention is set to provide the mobile version of vs. traditional money
   transfer in the market. This is backed by a fully mobile/electronic architecture
   from start to end. It frees the consumers from undergoing the traditional long
 5 queues or paper method or even the semi-electronic way through portals.
   In various embodiments as described a Money Transfer Control Number
   (MTCN) may be generated as part of the remittance transaction. The MTCN
   may be provided to the target beneficiary 40. In particular, upon receiving a
   confirmation message that monies have been remitted, a notification (in the
10 form of an SMS or other means) may be sent to the recipient's MSISDN (MIN).
   The notification may comprise the following information:
   i.      Sender's full name (the first, middle and last names as signed on the
   'To Send Money' form);
   ii.     City and Country where the money was remitted;
15 iii.    Amount of remittance; and
   iv.     Money Transfer Control Number (MTCN)
   In the embodiments involving a Remittance Partner Agent 18, when the target
   beneficiary 40 visits a remittance agent 18 for encashment, the notification
   with the MTCN may be shown together with a valid photo identification
20 (original copy). The generated notification may comprise the following
   information
   Money Transfer Control Number (MTCN); Sender's full name; City and
   Country where the money was sent from; and the expected Amount of the
   money transfer. Once verified, the target beneficiary reviews and sign a
25 receipt before receiving the money. The remittance agent 18 will then hand
   the money together with         the receipt. This completes the      remittance
   transaction.
   Although     the afore-described   embodiments     are described    based on
   remittance transactions between various parties, it is to be appreciated that
30 the remittance system 10 may be adapted for other types of transactions
   requiring the target beneficiary 40 PAN to be linked or matched to the sender
   12 PAN.
                                           10

  It should be further appreciated by the person skilled in the art that variations
  and combinations of features described above, not being alternatives or
  substitutes, may be combined to form yet further embodiments falling within
  the intended scope of the invention.
5
                                         In~

   CLAIMS:
   1.      A remittance system comprising:
           a remittance platform operable to process a remittance request originating
   from a sender to a target beneficiary; the remittance request comprising a primary
 5 account number (PAN) of the sender;
           the remittance platform further operable to create an electronic account for
   the target beneficiary upon determining that the target beneficiary does not have an
   approved PAN for remittance to take place;
           wherein the creation of the electronic account comprises a link between a
10 unique identifier of the target beneficiary and the generation of a primary account
   number (PAN) for the beneficiary.
   2.      The remittance system according to claim 1, wherein the unique identifier is
   one of the following:
           a mobile identifier of the target beneficiary, and a social network account of
15 the target beneficiary.
   3.      The remittance system according to claim 1, wherein the PAN of the sender is
   linked to a fund source.
   4.      The remittance system according to claim 3, wherein the fund source is a
   bank, a credit card company, or other financial institutions.
20 5.      The remittance system of claim 3 or 4, wherein the beneficiary PAN is
   generated to match the PAN of the sender.
   6.      The remittance system according to claim 1, wherein the electronic account
   comprises an electronic wallet.
   7.      The remittance system according to claim 6, wherein the electronic wallet is
25 linked to a plurality of identifiers of the sender or beneficiary.
   8.      The remittance system according to claim 7, wherein the plurality of identifiers
   include email address; social network accounts; and mobile identification number.
                                                  11

   9.      The remittance system according to claim 1, wherein the remittance platform
   is in data communication with a customer profile database.
   10.     The remittance system according to claim 1, wherein if the sender is not
   linked to a fund source, the primary account number of the sender is provided by an
 5 authorized remittance agent.
   11.     A method of remittance from a sender to a target beneficiary comprising:
            receiving, by a remittance platform, a remittance request originating from the
   sender; the remittance request comprising a primary account number (PAN) of the
   sender;
10         determining whether the target beneficiary has an approved PAN for
   remittance to take place; and
           creating an electronic account for the target beneficiary if there is no
   approved PAN;
           wherein the creation of the electronic account comprises a link between a
15 unique identifier of the target beneficiary and the generation of a primary account
   number (PAN) for the beneficiary.
   12.     The method of remittance according to claim 11, wherein the unique identifier
   is one of the following:
           a mobile identifier of the target beneficiary, and a social network account of
20 the targeted beneficiary.
   13.     The method of remittance according to claim 11, wherein the PAN of the
   sender is linked to a fund source.
   14.     The method of remittance according to claim 13, wherein the fund source is a
   bank, a credit card company, or other financial institutions.
25 15.     The method of remittance according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the
   beneficiary PAN is generated to match the PAN of the sender.
   16.     The method of remittance according to claim 11, wherein the electronic
   account comprises an electronic wallet.

   17.      The method of remittance according to claim 16, wherein the electronic wallet
   is linked to a plurality of identifiers of the sender or beneficiary.
   18.      The method of remittance according to claim 17, wherein the plurality of
   identifiers include email address; social network accounts; and mobile identification
 5 number.
   19.      The method according to claim 11, wherein if the sender is not linked to a
   fund source, the primary account number of the sender is provided by an authorized
   remittance agent.
10
   EINNOVATIONS HOLDINGS PTE. LTD
   WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
15

                                                              <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                          16                                    10
              12
                          14
                                                    24
                                                         22
                              16
                                                                       28
25                                                                                         1/8
                   40              38a
     Fig. 1
                                                         20                30
                                               34
                                         38b             26            32
                        38c                         36

                                                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                              16                             10
              12
                              14
                                                        24
                                                              22
                                   16                                        28
26                                      38a
                   40
     Fig. 2                                                                          2/8
                                                              20             30
                                                   34
                                                              26             32
                                                         36
                        38c

                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              12
                                                                        10
                                    18
                   14
                                                         20             30
                                         38a
27                                             34                               3/8
     Fig. 3                                              26             32
              40
                              38b
                                                    36
                        38c

                                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                           400
                                                                 432
                                                    430
                      402
                      404   436
              406
                                        434
              408
28                                                                               4/8
                                  426
     Fig. 4
              410
                                        424
                                              428          430
                412
                                        422
                414
                                        420
              416
                                        418

                                                                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              Fund source sends remittance transaction to Mother PAN
29   Fig. 5                                                                                   5/8

                                                                                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              Network operator (with remittance platform ) credits remittance to existing
              funding account
30                                                                                                                 6/8
     Fig. 6

                                                                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              Target Beneficiary applies for funding account with network operator to
              receive remittance
31                                                                                                             7/8
     Fig. 7

                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              Encashment and/or withdrawal
32                                                                  8/8
     Fig. 8

