                            ABSTRACT
This invention relates to portable toilets of the type that
include a toilet bowl that is supported on a base and which is
at least partially enclosed by a screen, and a holding tank
that is adapted to receive and store bodily emissions
deposited in the toilet bowl. The portable toilet further
includes a portable, freestanding, urinal that can be
positioned on the outside of the screen and wherein the urinal
includes a trough having a drainage outlet that is connected
to, and in fluid communication with, the holding tank.

17
                                   -1
                   Improvements to Portable Toilets
        This invention relates  to portable toilets of the type
   that are available for hire and which are commonly provided
   at public events, such as sporting events, outdoor concerts
 5 and public meetings, for persons to dispose of their bodily
   emissions, and wherein reference will be made to  same.
        Portable toilets typically include a toilet bowl or pan
   having a bowl like receptacle that includes  an enlarged upper
   inlet that is adapted to  receive bodily emissions, such as
10 faeces and urine, as well as paper that has been used to  clean
   the person's bottom, and a lower outlet that is in fluid
   communication with a holding tank that is used for the
   collection and storage of waste products  and any fluids used
   to convey the waste products through said lower outlet.   Most
15 portable toilets  also include a toilet seat that is adapted to
   provide support for a person's bottom above the upper opening
   of the toilet bowl.
        The toilet bowl and/or the holding tank are typically
   supported on a base  and, for reasons of privacy, the toilet
20 bowl is typically contained within a cubicle, comprising one
   or more walls that extend upwardly from said base, in which
   there is formed an access opening that is selectively closed
   by a door, and a roof to provide shelter from falling rain.
        Portable toilets of the type described above are
25 typically supported on either a pallet or a skid that may be
   used to in conjunction with a forklift to move the toilet from
   one location to another.
        Portable toilets  are typically transported to and from
   public events on a tray of a motor vehicle in an upstanding
30 attitude, and wherein it  is often possible to carry ten
   toilets contained in two rows side by side on some motor
   vehicles.
        Organisers of public events are usually required to
   provide toilet facilities for the use of persons attending the
35 event and whereby legal requirements might dictate that there
   be at least one toilet for every 100 patrons. The portable
   toilets are usually positioned either individually or grouped
   together in one or more rows where needed at public events.
        Unfortunately the number of persons in ques waiting to
40 use portable toilets at public events can at  times be quite
   large and whereby the need to que can detract from the
   personal experience  of attending the public event.  Further,
   it has been observed that not all persons who utilize portable

                                      -2-.
   toilets need to defecate and that most males are content to
   urinate in sight of other males.        Accordingly, in an effort to
   reduce the size of ques for public toilets, at public events
   there are often provided urinals for male patrons.
 5          Portable urinals typically include a trough in which
   persons may deposit urine and a holding tank for the storage
   of urine.      The trough has at least one drainage outlet that is
   in fluid communication with the holding tank for the
   collection and storage of urine. Most portable urinals also
10 include a base that is adapted to provide support for the
   trough and the holding tank, and whereby the trough is
   generally partially surrounded by a plurality of side walls
   that extend upwardly from the trough and which provide the
   user with some privacy.
15          The provision of portable toilets and portable urinals
   can be quite costly and wherein during a public event the
   holding tanks of both the toilets and the urinals need to be
   drained at regular intervals.
            Typically waste products contained in the holding tank of
20 a portable toilet are removed using an elongate wand having a
   free end portion that is inserted into the holding tank via
   the lower outlet of the toilet bowl.        The free end of the wand
   is usually connected to, and in fluid communication with, a
   storage tank mounted on a waste removal vehicle by a flexible
25 hose and whereby access to service the toilet can only be
   gained via the access opening. Accordingly, it is only
   possible to remove waste products from a toilet that is not in
   use and wherein it has been observed that some patrons do get
   annoyed and impatient when made to wait to use a toilet
30 because it is closed for servicing.
            At events where there is provided a plurality of toilets
   arranged in a row, the cleaner will most likely remove waste
   products from each of the toilets one after the other.        This
   may necessitate dragging the hose connecting the wand to the
35 waste storage tank past the front of several toilets, which
   some patrons may find a little unpleasant.        Further, the hose
   represents a potential hazard that patrons may trip over when
   entering, leaving, or generally walking in the vicinity of the
   toilets.
40          It has also been observed that when extracting the wand
   from the holding     tank waste products may dribble from the end
   of the wand onto     the toilet bowl and/or the toilet floor.
   This is not very     hygienic and whereby a cleaner is then

                                   -3
   required to clean the toilet preferably before patrons are
   allowed to use it.
         The supply of fresh water that is used to flush the
   toilets also needs to be replenished from time to time.
 5 Again, this can only be achieved by obtaining access to the
   toilet via the access opening. Accordingly, the supply of
   water can only be topped up when the toilet is not occupied by
   a patron.
         It is therefore an object of the present invention to
10 provide a portable toilet which will alleviate at least some
   of the deficiencies of the prior art and which will be
   reliable and efficient in use.
         With the foregoing and other objects in view, this
   invention relates to a portable toilet including:
15       a base;
         a toilet bowl supported on said base, said toilet bowl
   including a first receptacle having an upper first receptacle
   inlet that is capable of receiving bodily emissions and a
   lower first receptacle outlet through which the bodily
20 emissions may pass;
         a screen extending upwardly from said base so as to at
   least partially form an enclosure around said toilet bowl,
   said screen having at least one side wall having an interior
   face that faces said toilet bowl and an opposing exterior
25 face;
         a holding tank for the collection and storage of bodily
   emissions, said holding tank being in fluid communication with
   said lower first receptacle outlet, said holding tank having a
   first holding tank inlet that is accessible via an opening in
30 said side wall, and
         a freestanding urinal that is locatable adjacent said
   external face of said side wall, said urinal having a trough
   that includes a drainage outlet that is connected to, and in
   fluid communication with said first holding tank inlet.
35       Preferably the urinal includes a supporting structure
   that supports the trough above a foundation and wherein a
   conduit, such as a flexible hose, that is used to connect the
   drainage outlet to the first holding tank inlet is concealed
   from view, or otherwise protected from being tampered with,
40 behind said supporting structure.
         Further, it is preferred that there be provided a cavity
   or recess in a lower front portion of the supporting structure

                                   -4
   adjacent the foundation that is large enough to receive
   therein the front portion of a user's feet. The inclusion of
   the cavity or recess it is believed will permit the user to
   stand close to the trough when urinating.
 5       It is also preferred that the overall size of the urinal
   is such that the urinal can be stored within the confines of
   the screen.
         Preferably there is also provided aligned access openings
   in the screen and the holding tank through which a user may
10 extend the free end of a wand for the purpose of extracting
   waste products from the holding tank.
         In some embodiments the toilet may also include a
   flushing fluid storage tank for the storage of a suitable
   fluid to be used to flush the contents of the receptacle
15 through the lower receptacle outlet into the holding tank.
   Preferably the toilet includes aligned apertures in the screen
   and the flushing fluid storage tank which allow for the volume
   of fluid stored in said tank to be replenished.
         For example, the screen may include an external side wall
20 in which there is formed a flushing fluid inlet aperture and a
   waste extraction outlet aperture. Preferably these apertures
   are located on opposing side portions of the wall such that in
   use the urinal may be positioned against said wall and not
   block access to either aperture.
25       In another aspect, this invention relates to a portable
   toilet including:
         a base;
         a toilet bowl supported on said base, said toilet bowl
   including a first receptacle having an upper first receptacle
30 inlet that is capable of receiving bodily emissions and a
   lower first receptacle outlet through which the bodily
   emissions may pass;
         a screen extending upwardly from said base so as to at
   least partially form an enclosure around said toilet bowl,
35 said screen having at least one side wall having an interior
   face that faces said toilet bowl and an opposing exterior
   face;
         a holding tank for the collection and storage of bodily
   emissions, said holding tank being in fluid communication with
40 said lower first receptacle outlet, said holding tank having a
   first holding tank outlet, and

                                   -5
         an inlet formed in said screen that is aligned with said
   first holding tank outlet whereby for the purpose of
   extracting waste products from said holding tank a free end
   portion of a waste extraction wand may be extended through
 5 said aligned apertures.
         In some embodiments the toilet may also include a tank
   for the storage of a fluid to be used to flush the contents of
   the receptacle through the lower receptacle outlet into the
   holding tank. Preferably the toilet includes aligned
10 apertures in the screen and the tank which allow for the
   volume of fluid stored in the tank to be replenished.
         In yet another aspect, this invention relates to a
   portable toilet including:
         a base;
15       a toilet bowl supported on said base, said toilet bowl
   including a first receptacle having an upper first receptacle
   inlet that is capable of receiving bodily emissions and a
   lower first receptacle outlet through which the bodily
   emissions may pass;
20       a screen extending upwardly from said base so as to at
   least partially form an enclosure around said toilet bowl,
   said screen having at least one side wall having an interior
   face that faces said toilet bowl and an opposing exterior
   face;
25       a holding tank for the collection and storage of bodily
   emissions, said holding tank being in fluid communication with
   said lower first receptacle outlet, said holding tank having a
   first holding tank outlet;
         a flushing fluid storage tank for the storage of a fluid
30 to be used to flush bodily emissions contained in said
   receptacle through said lower receptacle outlet into said
   holding tank, said flushing fluid storage tank including a
   first flushing fluid storage tank inlet, and
         an inlet aperture formed in said screen that is aligned
35 with said first flushing fluid storage tank inlet whereby for
   the purpose of replenishing fluid stored in said tank a hose
   may be extended through said aligned apertures.
         Preferably the holding tank includes a first holding tank
   outlet and the screen includes an inlet formed in said screen
40 that is aligned with said first holding tank outlet whereby
   for the purpose of extracting waste products from said holding

                                  -6
   tank a free end portion of a waste extraction wand may be
   extended through said aligned apertures.
        The toilet may also include a urinal of the type
   previously described
 5      In order that this invention may be more readily
   understood and put into practical effect, reference will now
   be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a
   preferred embodiment of the invention and wherein:
        Fig. 1 is a pictorial front view of a portable toilet
10      with a freestanding urinal that have been constructed in
        accordance with the present invention;
        Fig. 2 is a pictorial cutaway view from above of the
        portable toilet and urinal shown in Fig. 1;
        Fig. 3 is a pictorial cutaway view from the rear of the
15      portable toilet and urinal shown in Fig. 1;
        Fig. 4 is a pictororial cutaway view from the rear of the
        portable toilet shown in figure 1;
        Fig. 5 is a pictorial front view of a portable urinal as
   shown in Fig. 1, and
20      Fig. 6 is a pictorial rear view of the urinal shown in
   Fig. 5.
        Figures 1 to 6 show a portable toilet 10, including a
        toilet bowl 11 and a portable urinal 12.
        The toilet bowl 11 includes a bowl like receptacle 13
25 having an upper inlet 14 that is defined by the bowl's
   peripheral lip 15, and which is large enough to receive bodily
   emissions, namely urine and faeces, and a lower outlet 16.
        The toilet bowl 11 is supported on a substantially square
   shaped base 17 that rests on a pair of opposed skids 18.   The
30 base 17 also provides support for a holding tank for the
   collection and storage of bodily emissions. The holding tank
   is hidden behind a cover19 and includes an inlet, not shown,
   that is connected to, and in fluid communication with, the
   lower outlet 16 of the toilet bowl.
35      The portable toilet 10 also includes a reservoir, not
   shown, for the storage of a suitable fluid, such as water, to
   be used to flush bodily emissions and toilet paper contained
   in the receptacle 13 through the outlet 16 and into the
   holding tank. The reservoir, is also hidden behind the cover
40 19, and is connected to and in fluid communication with the
   receptacle 13 and whereby, in use, discrete amounts of the

                                  -7
   fluid contained in the reservoir may be selectively released
   into the receptacle 13.
        The toilet bowl 11, the holding tank, and the reservoir,
   for various reasons, including privacy, are hidden from view
 5 behind a screen 20 that includes a front wall 21, an opposing
   rear wall 22, and two spaced apart side walls 23 located
   between said front and rear wall. The front wall 21, rear wall
   22 and side walls 23 each extend upwardly from the base 17.
   Further, the front wall 21 includes an access opening 24 that
10 may be selectively closed by a door 25.
        The portable toilet 10 also includes a roof 26 that is
   attached to the upper ends of the front wall 21, rear wall 22
   and the side walls 23.
        The holding tank includes a first inlet 27 that is
15 accessible via an opening 28 that is formed in the rear wall
   22.  The inlet 27 includes a hose end connector 29 fitted
   thereto.
        The holding tank also includes an outlet 30 that is
   accessible via a second opening 31 that is formed in the rear
20 wall 22.  The outlet 30 is selectively closed by a screw cap
   50.
        The reservoir also includes a first inlet 32 that is
   accessible via an opening 33 that is formed in the rear wall
   22.  The inlet 32 includes a hose end connector 51 fitted
25 thereto.
        The urinal 12 includes a long, narrow, receptacle 34 that
   resembles a trough, having an upper opening 35, defined by the
   receptacle's lip 36, and an outlet 37.
        The urinal 12 also includes a flexible hose 38 having a
30 first end portion 39 that is attached to, and in fluid
   communication with, the outlet 37, and a second, or free, end
   portion 40 to which there is attached a hose end connector 41
   that is capable of being operatively connected to the hose end
   connector 29.
35      The receptacle 34 is supported in an elevated position
   above a foundation, such as the ground, by a pair of spaced
   apart legs 42 having upper ends that are joined together by a
   skirt 43 that depends from a front edge of the receptacle 34
   and which is located therebetween.  Further, there exists a
40 gap 44 between the lower ends of the legs 42 and between a
   lower edge portion 55 of the skirt 43 and the foundation.

                                  -8
        The urinal 12 also includes two opposing side walls 45,
   that extend upwardly from the receptacle 34, and a rear wall
   46 located between said side walls.
        In use, the hose connector 41 may be connected to the
 5 hose connector 29 such that the outlet 37 of the receptacle 34
   is in fluid communication with the holding tank.  Further, the
   rear wall 46 of the urinal 12 may be placed up against the
   rear wall 22 of the toilet 10, as shown in figures 1, 2 and 4,
   such that the hose 38, the inlets 27 and 32, and the outlet
10 30, are all hidden from view behind the skirt 43, which in use
   shall inhibit members of the public tampering with the inlets
   and outlet.
        It will be appreciated that males who only wish to
   urinate may elect to use the urinal 12 and that they will
15 urinate into the receptacle 34 rather than the toilet bowl 11,
   Further, by placing the front end of their feet in the gap 44
   males will be able to stand closer to the receptacle 34 and
   whereby the side walls 45, that extend upwardly from the
   receptacle 34, shall offer them some privacy. Their urine,
20 having passed through the outlet 37, will be conveyed by the
   hose 38 into the holding tank where it shall be stored along
   with waste products that previously have passed through the
   outlet 16 of the toilet bowl.
        When it is necessary to empty the holding tank, instead
25 of inserting the end of a wand into the outlet 16, a cleaner
   may move the urinal 12 out of the way thereby allowing them to
   remove the cap 50 so that they can extend the end of the wand
   through the outlet 30 and into the holding tank.  Further,
   because the hose is flexible, and the length of the hose, it
30 will not be necessary to disconnect the urinal 12 from the
   holding tank.
        The cleaner if necessary can also refill the reservoir
   with fluid by removing any cap used to close inlet 32 and
   connecting a hose that is in fluid communication with a supply
35 of fluid to the hose end connector 33.
        When the toilet 10 and the urinal 12 are no longer
   required, the urinal 12 may be disconnected from the holding
   tank and stored inside the toilet between the toilet bowl 11
   and the door 25.
40      It is believed that a portable toilet that includes an
   internal toilet bowl and an externally located urinal will
   greatly reduce the size of ques of persons wanting to use the
   toilet because potentially more than one person may use the
   toilet at a time.

                                 -9
       It will of course be realised that while the foregoing
  description has been given by way of example of the invention,
  all other modifications and variations thereto as would be
  apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall
5 within the broad scope and ambit of this invention as herein
  defined in the appended claims.

                                   -10
   THE CLAIMS  DEFINING THE  INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.    A portable toilet including:
         a base;
         a toilet bowl supported on said base, said toilet bowl
 5 including a first receptacle having an upper first receptacle
   inlet that is capable of receiving bodily emissions and a
   lower first receptacle outlet through which the bodily
   emissions may pass;
         a screen extending upwardly from said base so as   to at
10 least partially form an enclosure around said toilet bowl,
   said screen having at least one side wall having an interior
   face that faces   said toilet bowl  and an opposing exterior
   face;
         a holding tank for the collection and storage of bodily
15 emissions, said holding tank being in fluid communication with
   said lower first receptacle outlet, said holding tank having a
   first holding tank inlet that is accessible via an opening in
   said side wall,   and
         a freestanding urinal  that is locatable  adjacent said
20 external face of said side wall, said urinal having a trough
   that includes a drainage   outlet that is connected to,  and in
   fluid communication with said first holding tank inlet.
   2.    A portable toilet including:
25       a base;
         a toilet bowl supported on said base, said toilet bowl
   including a first receptacle having an upper first receptacle
   inlet that is capable of receiving bodily emissions and a
   lower first   receptacle outlet through which the bodily
30 emissions may pass;
         a screen extending upwardly from said base so as to at
   least partially form an enclosure around said toilet bowl,
   said screen having at least one side wall having an interior
   face that faces   said toilet bowl  and an opposing exterior
35 face;
         a holding tank for the collection and storage of bodily
   emissions, said holding tank being in fluid communication with
   said lower first receptacle outlet, said holding tank having a
   first holding tank outlet, and

                                  -11
         an inlet formed in said screen that is aligned with said
   first holding tank outlet whereby for the purpose of
   extracting waste products from said holding tank a free end
   portion of a waste extraction wand may be extended through
 5 said aligned apertures.
   3.    A portable toilet including:
         a base;
         a toilet bowl supported on said base, said toilet bowl
10 including a first receptacle having an upper first receptacle
   inlet that is capable of receiving bodily emissions and a
   lower first receptacle outlet through which the bodily
   emissions may pass;
         a screen extending upwardly from said base so as to at
15 least partially form an enclosure around said toilet bowl,
   said screen having at least one side wall having an interior
   face that faces said toilet bowl and an opposing exterior
   face;
         a holding tank for the collection and storage of bodily
20 emissions, said holding tank being in fluid communication with
   said lower first receptacle outlet, said holding tank having a
   first holding tank outlet;
         a flushing fluid storage tank for the storage of a fluid
   to be used to flush bodily emissions contained in said
25 receptacle through said lower receptacle outlet into said
   holding tank, said flushing fluid storage tank including a
   first flushing fluid storage tank inlet, and
         an inlet aperture formed in said screen that is aligned
   with said first flushing fluid storage tank inlet whereby for
30 the purpose of replenishing fluid stored in said tank a hose
   may be extended through said aligned apertures.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
