Method and Device for Forming Grooves in Pipe Elements
Abstract
      A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
      engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
      forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe
element;
      measuring a circumference of said groove while rotating said pipe element; determining a
diameter of said groove using said circumference of said groove; comparing said diameter of
said groove with a desired tolerance range;
        repeating said forming, measuring, determining, and comparing until said groove
diameter is within said desired tolerance range.

                                                   1
Method and Device for Forming Grooves in Pipe Elements
[0001]    This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014307028, the
entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
[0001a] This invention concerns a method and a device for forming a circumferential groove in
a pipe element.
Background
[0002]    Pipe elements, which include any pipe-like item such as pipe stock, as well as fittings,
including, for example elbows, tees and straights and components such as valves, strainers, end
caps and pump intakes and outlets, may be sealingly joined in end to end relation using
mechanical pipe couplings, an example of which is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,086,131. The
couplings are formed of two or more segments joined end to end by threaded fasteners. In use,
the coupling segments are positioned surrounding the pipe elements and are drawn toward one
another and into engagement with the pipe elements by tightening the threaded fasteners. The
pipe elements may have circumferential grooves which are engaged by radially projecting keys
on the pipe couplings to provide positive restraint to thrust loads experienced by the pipe
elements when under internal pressure from the fluid within. An elastomeric gasket, often in the
form of a ring, is positioned between the coupling segments and the pipe elements to ensure
fluid tightness of the joint. The gasket may have glands which use the internal fluid pressure
within the pipe elements to increase the maximum pressure at which it remains effective to
prevent leaks. The gasket is compressed radially between the coupling segments and the pipe
elements to effect the fluid tight seal desired.
[0003]    To form a fluid tight joint using a mechanical coupling with grooved pipe elements it is
necessary to control the dimensions of the circumferential grooves of the pipe elements so that
the grooves properly engage the keys of the coupling elements and also allow the segments to
move toward one another and compress the gasket sufficiently to effect the fluid tight seal.
Grooves may be formed by cold working the side wall of the pipe element between opposed
rollers which are forced toward one another to displace material of the pipe element, typically

                                                   2
by hydraulic means, while they are turning about substantially parallel axes of rotation. The
pipe element rotates in response (or the rollers orbit around the pipe circumference) and the
groove is formed about the pipe element circumference. Dimensional control of the grooves is
made difficult by the allowable tolerances of the pipe dimensions. For example, for steel pipe,
the tolerances on the diameter may be as great as +/- 1 %, the wall thickness tolerance is -12.5 %
with no fixed upper limit, and the out of roundness tolerance is +/- 1 %. These relatively large
dimensional tolerances present challenges when forming the circumferential grooves by cold
working. It is desirable to develop a method and an apparatus which actively measures a
parameter, such as the groove diameter, and uses such measurements, as the groove is being
formed, to control the motion of groove forming rollers as they form the groove. It is also
desirable to avoid the trial groove and measure/adjust procedure of the prior art. It is an object
of the present invention to at least substantially satisfy at least one of the above desires.
Summary
[0004]    An embodiment of the invention concerns a method of forming a circumferential
groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis. The method is effected using a drive roller
and a grooving roller. In one example embodiment, the method comprises:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller;
                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element;
                forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe
element;
                measuring a circumference of the groove while rotating the pipe element;
                determining a diameter of the groove using the circumference of the groove;
                comparing the diameter of the groove with a desired tolerance range; and
                repeating the forming, measuring, determining, and comparing until the groove
diameter is within the desired tolerance range.
[0005]    This example method may further comprise:
                determining a diameter of the pipe element;
                comparing the diameter of the pipe element with a tolerance range for the
diameter of the pipe element;

                 rejecting the pipe element before forming the groove in the pipe element if the
diameter of the pipe element is not within the tolerance range for the diameter of the pipe
element.
[0006]       In a particular example of the method, determining the diameter of the pipe element
may comprise:
                 rotating the pipe element while the pipe element is engaged with the grooving
roller, the grooving roller rotating in response to the pipe element;
                 knowing a diameter of a surface of the grooving roller engaged with the pipe
element;
                 determining a number of revolutions of the grooving roller, including fractions
thereof, for each revolution of the pipe element; and
                 calculating the diameter of the pipe element, the number of revolutions of the
grooving roller, including the fractions thereof, per revolution of the pipe element being
proportional to the diameter of the pipe element.
[0007]       By way of example, determining the number of revolutions of the grooving roller,
including the fractions thereof, may comprise counting the number of revolutions of the grooving
roller, including the fractions thereof, for at least one the revolution of the pipe element.
[0008]       In an example method embodiment, determining the at least one revolution of the
pipe element is effected by:
                 marking an outer surface of the pipe element with a light reflecting surface that
contrasts with the outer surface of the pipe element;
                 shining a light onto the outer surface of the pipe element;
                 sensing a first and a second reflection of the light from the light reflecting surface
while rotating the pipe element.
[0009]       In a particular example embodiment, engaging the grooving roller with the pipe
element comprises pinching the pipe element between the grooving roller and the drive roller
with sufficient force to hold the pipe element therebetween. An example embodiment of the
                                                    3

method comprises engaging an inner surface of the pipe element with the drive roller and
engaging an outer surface of the pipe element with the grooving roller.
[0010]       By way of example, the method may also comprise selecting a rotational speed for
rotating the pipe element based upon at least one characteristic of the pipe element. The at least
one characteristic of the pipe element may be selected from the group consisting of a diameter, a
wall thickness, a material of the pipe element and combinations thereof.
[0011]       Similarly, by way of example, the method may further comprise selecting a force for
forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element based upon at least one characteristic of the
pipe element. The at least one characteristic of the pipe element may be selected from the group
consisting of a diameter, a wall thickness, a material of the pipe element and combinations
thereof.
[0012]       Again by way of example, the method may comprise selecting a feed rate of the
grooving roller for forming the groove in the pipe element based upon at least one characteristic
of the pipe element. The at least one characteristic of the pipe element may be selected from the
group consisting of a diameter, a wall thickness, a material of the pipe element and combinations
thereof.
[0013]       In an example embodiment of the method, determining the diameter of the groove
comprises:
                 knowing a diameter of a surface of the grooving roller engaged with the groove
within the pipe element;
                 determining a number of revolutions of the grooving roller, including fractions
thereof, for each revolution of the pipe element;
                 calculating the diameter of the groove, the number of revolutions of the grooving
roller, including the fractions thereof, per revolution of the pipe element being proportional to
the diameter of the groove.
[0014]       Additionally by way of example, determining the number of revolutions of the
grooving roller, including the fractions thereof, comprises counting the number of revolutions of
the grooving roller, including the fractions thereof, for at least one the revolution of the pipe
element.
                                                   4

                                                    5
[0015]    In an example embodiment, determining the at least one revolution of the pipe element
may be effected by:
                marking an outer surface of the pipe element with a light reflecting surface that
contrasts with the outer surface of the pipe element;
                shining a light onto the outer surface of the pipe element;
                sensing a first and a second reflection of the light from the light reflecting surface
while rotating the pipe element.
[0016]    Additionally, an example method may further comprise measuring a plurality of
dimensions proximate to the circumferential groove in the pipe element while rotating the pipe
element. In an example embodiment, measuring the plurality of dimensions comprises
measuring at least one dimension selected from the group consisting of a distance from an end
of the groove to an end of the pipe, a width of the groove, a depth of the groove, a flare height of
the pipe, and combinations thereof.
[0017]    Another embodiment of the invention also encompasses a method of processing a pipe
element having a longitudinal axis using a drive roller and an idler roller. In an example
embodiment, the method comprises determining a diameter of the pipe element by:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller;
                engaging the idler roller with the pipe element;
                rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while the pipe element is
engaged with the idler roller, the idler roller rotating in response to the pipe element;
                knowing a diameter or a circumference of a surface of the idler roller engaged
with the pipe element;
                determining a number of revolutions of the idler roller, including fractions
thereof, for each revolution of the pipe element; and
                using the number of revolutions of the idler roller, including the fractions thereof,
per revolution of the pipe element to calculate the diameter of the pipe element.

[0018]      In this example, determining the number of revolutions of the idler roller, including
the fractions thereof, may comprise counting the number of revolutions of the idler roller,
including the fractions thereof, for at least one revolution of the pipe element.
[0019]      The example method may further comprise:
                comparing the diameter of the pipe element with a tolerance range for the
diameter of the pipe element;
                rejecting the pipe element if the diameter of the pipe element is not within the
tolerance range for the diameter of the pipe element.
[0020]      By way of example, the at least one revolution of the pipe element may be determined
by:
                marking an outer surface of the pipe element with a light reflecting surface that
contrasts with the outer surface of the pipe element;
                shining a light onto the outer surface of the pipe element;
                sensing a first and a second reflection of the light from the light reflecting surface
while rotating the pipe element.
        In another example embodiment, the at least one revolution of the pipe element may be
determined by:
                positioning a magnet on a surface of the pipe element;
                sensing a first and a second magnetic field while rotating the pipe element.
[0021]      In a particular example embodiment, the idler roller may be used as a grooving roller
to form a circumferential groove in the pipe element about the longitudinal axis by:
                forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of
the pipe element while rotating the pipe element;
                measuring a circumference of the groove while rotating the pipe element;
                determining a diameter of the groove using the circumference of the groove;
                comparing the diameter of the groove with a tolerance range for the diameter of
the groove;
                                                    6

                repeating the forcing, measuring, determining and the comparing until the
diameter of the groove is within the tolerance range.
[0022]      By way of example, measuring the circumference of the groove while rotating the
pipe element may comprise:
                knowing a diameter or a circumference of a surface of the grooving roller
engaged with the groove;
                determining a number of revolutions of the grooving roller, and fractions thereof,
for each revolution of the pipe element, and
                calculating the circumference of the groove using the diameter or circumference
of the surface and the number of revolutions of the grooving roller, and fractions thereof, for
each revolution of the pipe element.
[0023]      In a particular example, determining the number of revolutions of the grooving roller,
and the fractions thereof, comprises counting the number of revolutions of the grooving roller,
and the fractions thereof, for at least one the revolution of the pipe element.
[0024]      A further example comprises determining at least one revolution of the pipe element
by sensing a feature on the pipe element a first and a second time while rotating the pipe
element.
[0025]      By way of further example, the at least one revolution of the pipe element may be
determined by:
                marking an outer surface of the pipe element with a light reflecting surface that
contrasts with the outer surface of the pipe element;
                shining a light onto the outer surface of the pipe element;
                sensing a first and a second reflection of the light from the light reflecting surface
while rotating the pipe element.
[0026]      In another example, the at least one revolution of the pipe element may be determined
by:
                positioning a magnet on a surface of the pipe element;
                                                   7

                sensing a first and a second magnetic field while rotating the pipe element.
        In another example embodiment, a grooving roller may be used to form a circumferential
groove in the pipe element about the longitudinal axis by:
                forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of
the pipe element while rotating the pipe element;
                measuring a circumference of the groove while rotating the pipe element;
                determining a diameter of the groove using the circumference of the groove;
                comparing the diameter of the groove with a tolerance range for the diameter of
the groove;
                repeating the forcing, measuring, determining and the comparing until the
diameter of the groove is within the tolerance range.
[0027]      In a particular embodiment, measuring the circumference of the groove while rotating
the pipe element may comprise:
                engaging the idler roller with the pipe element within the groove;
                knowing a diameter or a circumference of a surface of the idler roller engaged
with the pipe element within the groove;
                determining a number of revolutions of the idler roller, and fractions thereof, for
each revolution of the pipe element, and
                calculating the circumference of the groove using the diameter or circumference
of the surface and the number of revolutions of the idler roller, and fractions thereof, for each
revolution of the pipe element.
[0028]      By way of further example, determining the number of revolutions of the idler roller,
and the fractions thereof, may comprise counting the number of revolutions of the idler roller,
and the fractions thereof, for at least one revolution of the pipe element.
[0029]      Another example embodiment may comprise determining the at least one revolution
of the pipe element by:
                                                   8

                                                   9
                marking an outer surface of the pipe element with a light reflecting surface that
contrasts with the outer surface of the pipe element;
                shining a light onto the outer surface of the pipe element;
                sensing a first and a second reflection of the light from the light reflecting surface
while rotating the pipe element.
           By way of further example, the at least one revolution of the pipe element may be
determined by:
                positioning a magnet on a surface of the pipe element;
                sensing a first and a second magnetic field while rotating the pipe element.
[0030]     Another embodiment of the invention further encompasses a device for forming a
circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis. In one example
embodiment, the device comprises a drive roller rotatable about a drive roller axis. The drive
roller is engageable with an inner surface of the pipe element when the drive roller axis is
oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pipe element. A grooving roller is
rotatable about a grooving roller axis oriented substantially parallel to the drive roller axis. The
grooving roller has a known diameter. The grooving roller is movable toward and away from
the drive roller so as to forcibly engage the outer surface of the pipe element and form the
groove therein upon rotation of the pipe element. A first sensor is used to determine a degree of
rotation of the grooving roller and generate a first signal indicative thereof. A second sensor is
used to determine a degree of rotation of the pipe element and generate a second signal
indicative thereof. A control system is adapted to receive the first and second signals, use the
first and second signals to determine a diameter of the groove, and control motion of the
grooving roller toward and away from the drive roller in response to the diameter of the groove.
[0031]     By way of example, the first sensor may comprise a rotational encoder operatively
associated with the grooving roller. Also by way of example, the second sensor may comprise a
light reflecting surface affixed to an outer surface of the pipe element. The light reflecting
surface contrasts with the outer surface of the pipe element. A light projector is positioned to
project light onto the outer surface of the pipe element and the light reflecting surface affixed
thereto. A detector, adapted to detect light projected by the light projector upon reflection from
the light reflecting surface, generates the signal indicative thereof. By way of example, the light
projector may comprise a laser. Further in example, the light reflecting surface may be selected

                                                   10
from the group consisting of a specular reflecting surface, a diffuse reflecting surface, a
contrasting color reflecting surface and combinations thereof. In another example embodiment,
the second sensor comprises a magnet affixed to a surface of the pipe element. A detector is
adapted to detect a magnetic field. The detector generates a signal indicative thereof. In another
example embodiment, the device may further comprise a third sensor for measuring a surface
profile of at least a portion of the pipe element and generating a signal indicative thereof. The
third sensor may, for example, comprise a laser adapted to project a fan-shaped beam along a at
least the portion of the pipe element. A detector receives a reflection of the fan-shaped beam
from the portion of the pipe element. A calculator unit converts the reflection into
measurements representing the surface profile using triangulation. The calculator unit then
generates the signal indicative of the measurements and transmits the signal to the control
system.
[0032]     By way of example, the grooving roller may be mounted on an actuator controlled by
the control system, the actuator comprising a hydraulic ram for example.
[0033]     Another embodiment of the invention further encompasses a device for forming a
circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis. In an example
embodiment, the device comprises a drive roller rotatable about a drive roller axis. The drive
roller is engageable with an inner surface of the pipe element when the drive roller axis is
oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pipe element. A grooving roller is
rotatable about a grooving roller axis oriented substantially parallel to the drive roller axis. The
grooving roller is movable toward and away from the drive roller so as to forcibly engage an
outer surface of the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element and form the
groove therein upon rotation of the pipe element. An idler roller is rotatable about an idler roller
axis oriented substantially parallel to the drive roller axis. The idler roller has a known
diameter. The idler roller is movable toward and away from the drive roller so as to engage an
outer surface of the pipe element so as to rotate upon rotation of the pipe element. A first sensor
determines a degree of rotation of the idler roller and generates a first signal indicative thereof.
A second sensor determines a degree of rotation of the pipe element and generates a second
signal indicative thereof. A control system is adapted to receive the first and second signals and
use the first and second signals to determine a

diameter of the groove, and control motion of the grooving roller toward and away from the
drive roller in response to the diameter of the groove.
[0034]       In a particular example embodiment, the first sensor comprises a rotational encoder
operatively associated with the idler roller.By way of further example, the second sensor may
comprise a light reflecting surface affixed to an outer surface of the pipe element. The light
reflecting surface contrasts with the outer surface of the pipe element. A light projector is
positioned to project light onto the outer surface of the pipe element and the light reflecting
surface affixed thereto. A detector is adapted to detect light projected by the light projector upon
reflection from the light reflecting surface, the detector generating a signal indicative thereof.
The light projector may, for example, comprise a laser.
[0035]       In another example embodiment, the second sensor may comprise a magnet affixed to
a surface of the pipe element. A detector is adapted to detect a magnetic field. The detector
generates a signal indicative thereof. The example device may further comprise a third sensor
for measuring a surface profile of at least a portion of the pipe element and generating a signal
indicative thereof. In a particular example embodiment, the third sensor comprises a laser
adapted to project a fan-shaped beam along at least the portion of the pipe element. A detector is
adapted to receive a reflection of the fan-shaped beam from the portion of the pipe element. A
calculator unit converts the reflection into measurements representing the surface profile using
triangulation. The sensor generates the signal indicative of the measurements and transmitts the
signal to the control system.
[0036]       In a particular example embodiment, the grooving roller is mounted on an actuator
that is controlled by the control system. Similarly by way of example, the idler roller may be
mounted on an actuator that is controlled by the control system.
[0037]       In another example embodiment of a device for forming a circumferential groove in a
pipe element having a longitudinal axis, the device comprises a drive roller rotatable about a
drive roller axis. The drive roller is engageable with an inner surface of the pipe element when
the drive roller axis is oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pipe element.
A grooving roller, rotatable about a grooving roller axis oriented substantially parallel to the
drive roller axis, has a known diameter. The grooving roller is movable toward and away from
the drive roller so as to forcibly engage an outer surface of the pipe element and form the groove
                                                   11

                                                   12
therein upon rotation of the pipe element. A sensor is used to measure a surface profile of at
least a portion of the pipe element and generate a signal indicative thereof. A control system,
adapted to receive the signal, uses the signal to determine a diameter of the groove and control
motion of the grooving roller toward and away from the drive roller in response to the diameter
of the groove.
[0038]    In a particular example embodiment, the sensor comprises a laser adapted to project a
fan-shaped beam along at least the portion of the pipe element. A detector receives a reflection
of the fan-shaped beam from the portion of the pipe element. A calculator unit converts the
reflection into measurements representing the surface profile using triangulation, generates the
signal indicative of the measurements and transmits the signal to the control system.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0038a] Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0039]    Figures 1 and IA are isometric views of example embodiments of devices for forming
circumferential grooves in pipe elements;
          Figure 2 is an isometric view of a portion of the device shown in Figure 1;
          Figures 3, 3A, 4 and 5 are sectional views of a portion of the device shown in Figure 1;
          Figure 6 is a flow chart illustrating an example method of forming a circumferential
groove in a pipe element;
          Figure 7 is a sectional view of the portion of the device shown in Figure 1;
          Figure 8 is a longitudinal sectional view of a pipe element having a circumferential
groove; and
          Figures 9-17 are flow charts illustrating example methods of forming grooves in the
pipe element shown in Figure 8.

                                                 12a
Detailed Description
[0040]   Figure 1 shows an example embodiment of a device 10 for forming a circumferential
groove in a pipe element. Device 10 comprises a drive roller 12 rotatable about an axis 14. In
this example, drive roller 12 is rotated about axis 14 by an electric motor 16 positioned within a
housing 18 on which the drive roller is mounted. Drive roller 12 has an outer surface 20 which
is

engageable with an inner surface of a pipe element as described below. An idler roller, which, in
this example embodiment, is a grooving roller 22 is also mounted on housing 18 for rotation
about an axis 24. Axes 14 and 24 are substantially parallel to one another which permit them to
cooperate when forming a circumferential groove.
[0041]      Grooving roller 22 is mounted to housing 18 via a yoke 26 which permits the
grooving roller to be moved toward and away from the drive roller in the direction indicated by
arrow 28 while maintaining axes 14 and 24 in substantially parallel relationship. Movement of
the yoke 26 and hence the grooving roller 22 is effected by an actuator 30. Hydraulic actuators
are advantageous because they provide a great range of high force adjustable in fine increments
capable of locally yielding the pipe material to progressively form the groove. Other types of
actuators are of course feasible.
[0042]      As shown in Figure 2, the device also includes a first sensor 32 for determining the
degree of rotation of the grooving roller 22 about axis 24 during formation of the circumferential
groove in the pipe element. In this example embodiment, the first sensor 32 comprises a rotary
encoder. Rotary encoders are advantageous because they have excellent reliability, repeatability,
accuracy and resolution, typically allowing a revolution to be divided into 600,060 discrete steps
for great accuracy in measuring the rotation of the grooving roller 22. Rotary encoder model
LM1OC005BB20FOO supplied by RLS of Ljubjana, Slovenia serves as a practical example
appropriate for device 10.
[0043]      In general, at least one revolution of the pipe element may be determined by sensing a
feature on the pipe element a first and a second time while rotating the pipe element. The
feature, for example, could be a naturally occurring feature, such as a unique scratch, tool
marking, seam or other feature which is not placed on the pipe for any particular purpose.
However, it is advantageous to position a feature on the pipe element which will be readily
detectable so as to ensure reliable and accurate determination of a revolution of the pipe element.
Two examples are described below, it being understood that other detection methods are also
feasible.
[0044]      With reference again to Figure 1, device 10 comprises a second sensor 34 for
determining the degree of rotation of the pipe element. Figure 3 shows an example of second
sensor 34 which comprises a light projector 36, for example, a laser, a detector 38, which detects
                                                  13

light from the projector as it is reflected from the pipe element 40, and a light reflecting surface
42 which is affixed to the outer surface 40b of the pipe element 40. Light reflecting surface 42
may be specular, diffuse, or have a different color from that of the outer surface 40b of the pipe
element 40 and thus provides a contrast with the pipe element outer surface. Sensor 34 is also
known as a contrast sensor because the detector 38 detects the difference between projected light
reflected from the pipe outer surface 40b and the contrasting light reflecting surface 42. Contrast
sensors such as 34 are manufactured by Leuze Electronics of New Hudson, Michigan, with
model number HRTL 3B/66-S8 being feasible for the device 10 disclosed herein. Each time the
light reflecting surface 42 passes beneath light from projector 36 the detector detects the
reflection therefrom and generates a signal which can be used to detect and count the revolutions
of the pipe element.
[0045]       In an alternate embodiment, shown in Figure 3A, the second sensor 34 may comprise
a magnetic sensor 35. Magnetic sensor 35 is also a non-contact proximity sensor which uses
inductive or capacitive principles to sense the passing of a magnet 37 affixed to a surface, for
example, the outer surface 40b of the pipe element 40. Each time the magnet 37 passes the
magnetic sensor 35 it generates a signal which can be used to detect and count the revolutions of
the pipe element.
[0046]       As shown in Figure 1, device 10 may also have a third sensor 46 for measuring a
surface profile of at least a portion of the pipe element. As shown in Figure 7, the third sensor 46
is a triangulation sensor and comprises a laser 48 adapted to produce a fan-shaped beam 50 along
a portion of the outer surface 40b of the pipe element 40 where the profile 52 is to be measured.
A detector 54 is adapted to receive the reflection of the fan-shaped beam from the outer surface
portion of the pipe element. The third sensor 46 also includes a calculator unit 55 which uses
triangulation to convert the reflection of the fan-shaped beam into measurements representing the
outer surface profile.
[0047]       With reference again to Figure 1, device 10 also includes a control system 56.
Control system 56 is in communication with the sensors 32, 34 and 46 as well as with the
electrical motor 16 and the actuator 30. Communication may be through dedicated electrical
lines 58. The control system receives signals generated by the sensors 32, 34 and 46 and sends
commands to the actuator 30 and the motor 16 to control operation of the various parts of the
                                                   14

device 10 to form the groove in the pipe elements. Sensor 32 generates signals indicative of the
rotation of the grooving roller 22; sensor 34 generates signals indicative of the rotation of the
pipe element 40 (see also Figure 3); and sensor 46 generates signals indicative of the outer
surface profile of the pipe element 40 (see also Figure 7). These signals are transmitted to the
control system. Control system 56 may comprise a computer or programmable logic controller
having resident software which interprets the signals from the sensors 32, 34 and 46 and then
issues commands to the actuator 30 and the motor 16 to effect the various functions associated
with forming the circumferential grooves in the pipe elements. Together the control system 56,
actuator 30, motor 16 and sensors 32, 34 and 46 operate in a feed-back loop to automatically
form the grooves in an operation described below.
[0048]       Figure 1A shows a device I0a having a second idler roller 23 that is separate from the
idler roller 22. In this example embodiment, idler roller 22 is a grooving roller mounted on yoke
26 as described above, and second idler roller 23 is mounted on an actuator 25 which is mounted
on device I0a. Actuator 25 is controlled by control system 56 and moves the idler roller 23
toward and away from the drive roller 12 to engage and disengage the idler roller 23 with the
pipe element. Idler roller 23 is rotatable about an axis 27 substantially parallel to axis 14 and
will rotate about axis 27 when engaged with a pipe element that is mounted on and rotated by the
drive roller 12. In this embodiment, the idler roller 23 is used to determine the pipe element
diameter and the groove diameter, and the idler (grooving) roller 22 is used to support the pipe
element and form a circumferential groove. To that end, first sensor 32 is operatively associated
with the idler roller 23 and used to determine the degree of rotation of the idler roller 23 about
axis 27 during determination of the pipe element diameter and formation of the circumferential
groove in the pipe element. In this example embodiment, the first sensor 32 may again comprise
a rotary encoder as described above. The rotary encoder counts the number of revolutions and
fractions thereof of the idler roller 23 and generates a signal indicative thereof which is
transmitted to the control system 56 via a communication link such as hardwired lines 58. The
control system 56 uses the information transmitted in the signals to determine the diameter of the
pipe element and control the machine operation during groove formation as described below.
                                                  15

Device Operation
[0049]       An example method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element using the
device 10 is illustrated in Figures 1-5 and in the flow chart of Figure 6. As shown in figure 3,
pipe element 40 is engaged with the drive roller 12 (see box 62, Figure 6). In this example, the
inner surface 40a of the pipe element 40 is placed in contact with the drive roller. Next, as
described in box 64 of Figure 6, grooving roller 22 is moved by the actuator 30 (under the
command of control system 56) toward the drive roller 12 until it engages the outer surface 40b
of pipe element 40. It is advantageous to pinch pipe element 40 between the drive roller 12 and
the grooving roller 22 with sufficient force to securely hold the pipe element on the device 10.
At this point, it is possible to determine the diameter of the pipe element 40 in order to either
accept the pipe element and form the circumferential groove, or reject the pipe element because
its diameter is outside of the accepted tolerance range and thus be incompatible with other pipe
elements of the same nominal size. Determining the pipe element diameter is represented by box
66 in Figure 6 and is effected by measuring the circumference of the pipe while rotating the pipe
element 40 about its longitudinal axis 68 using drive roller 12 powered by motor 16. Drive roller
12 in turn, rotates pipe element 40, which causes grooving roller 22 to rotate about its axis 24.
For greater accuracy of the measurement, it is advantageous if grooving roller 22 rotates in
response to pipe element 40 without slipping. The diameter of pipe element 40 may then be
calculated by knowing the diameter of the surface 22a of the grooving roller 22 that is in contact
with the pipe element 40, and counting the number of revolutions of the grooving roller,
including fractions of a rotation, for each revolution of the pipe element. If the diameter D of the
grooving roller surface 22a is known, then the circumference C of the pipe element 40 can be
calculated from the relation C    = (D x rev x fl)where "rev" equals the number of revolutions of
the grooving roller 22 (including fractions of a rotation) for one revolution of the pipe element.
Once the circumference C of the pipe element is known, the pipe element diameter d can be
calculated from the relation d=C/fl.
[0050]       In device 10, sensor 32, for example, a rotary encoder, counts the number of
revolutions and fractions thereof (rev) of the grooving roller 22 and generates a signal indicative
thereof. Each revolution of the pipe element 40 is detected and/or counted by the sensor 34,
which generates signals indicative thereof. For example, if sensor 34 is a contrast sensor as
described above (see Figure 3), it senses a first and a second reflection from the light reflecting
                                                   16

surface 42, which indicate it has detected or counted one revolution of the pipe element. If
sensor 34 is a magnetic sensor (Figure 3A), it senses a first and a second magnetic field, which
indicates that it has detected or counted one revolution of the pipe element. Signals from the
sensor 32 and the sensor 34 are transmitted to the control system 56, which performs the
calculations to determine the diameter of the pipe element 40. The control system may then
display the pipe element diameter to an operator for acceptance or rejection, or, the control
system itself may compare the pipe element diameter with a tolerance range for pipes of a known
nominal size and display an "accept" or "reject" signal to the operator. Note that for such
automated operation the control system is programmed with dimensional tolerance data for pipe
elements of various standard sizes. The operator must mount the grooving roller appropriate for
the standard pipe size and groove being formed and input to the control system the particular
standard pipe elements being processed. In response to these inputs the resident software within
the control system will then use the proper reference data to determine if the pipe element has a
diameter which falls within the acceptable tolerance range for pipe elements of the selected
standard size.
[0051]      Box 70 of Figure 6 and Figure 4 illustrate forming of a groove 72 in pipe element 40.
Drive roller 12 is rotated, thereby rotating pipe element 40 about its longitudinal axis 68, which
rotates the grooving roller 22 about axis 24. Note that the axis of rotation 14 of the drive roller
12, the axis of rotation 24 of the grooving roller 22 and the longitudinal axis 68 of the pipe
element 40 are substantially parallel to one another. "Substantially parallel" as used herein
means within about 2 degrees so as to permit rotation without significant friction but also allow
for tracking forces to be generated which maintain the pipe element engaged with the drive and
grooving rollers during rotation. During rotation of the pipe element, the actuator 30 (Figure 1)
forces the grooving roller 22 against the pipe element 40, thereby cold working the pipe element,
displacing the pipe element material, and forming the circumferential groove 72. Note that the
force exerted by the actuator 30, as well as the feed rate of the grooving roller 22 (i.e., the rate at
which the grooving roller moves toward the drive roller) and the rotational speed of the pipe
element may be selected based upon one or more characteristics of the pipe element 40. Such
characteristics include, for example, the pipe element diameter, the wall thickness (schedule),
and the material comprising the pipe element. Selection of the operational parameters such as
force, feed rate and rotational speed may be established by the operator, or, by the control system
                                                  17

56 in response to inputs from the operator specifying the particular pipe being processed. For
example, the control system may have a database of preferred operational parameters associated
with particular standard pipe elements according to diameter, schedule and material.
[0052]       For compatibility of the pipe element 40 with mechanical couplings, it is necessary
that the final diameter 74b (see Figure 5) of the groove 72 be within an acceptable tolerance for
the particular diameter pipe element being processed. As indicated in box 76 (see also Figure 4),
to produce an acceptable groove 72, the instantaneous groove diameter 74a (i.e., the groove
diameter before it achieves its final diameter) is determined at intervals while the pipe element
40 is rotating. The instantaneous groove diameter 74a, as shown in Figure 4, is determined using
signals from the sensor 32 and the sensor 34 as described above for determining the diameter of
the pipe element 40 (Figure 6, box 66). Signals from the sensor 32, indicative of the number of
revolutions (and fractions thereof) of the grooving roller 22, and signals from the sensor 34,
indicative of the number of revolutions of the pipe element constitute a measurement of the
instantaneous circumference of the pipe element 40 within groove 72. These signals are
transmitted to the control system 56 which uses the information in the signals to determine (i.e.,
calculate) the instantaneous diameter 74a of the groove 72 (note that the diameter of the surface
22a of the grooving roller 22 forming the groove is known). As shown in Box 78, the control
system then compares the instantaneous diameter of the groove with the appropriate tolerance
range for groove diameters for the particular pipe being processed. As shown in Box 80, if the
instantaneous groove diameter is not within the appropriate tolerance range, for example, the
instantaneous groove diameter is larger than the largest acceptable diameter for the particular
pipe element being processed, then the control system 56 continues to form the groove 72 by
rotating the pipe element 40 about its longitudinal axis 68 while forcing the grooving roller 22
against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element, determining the
instantaneous diameter 74a of the groove 72 while rotating the pipe element 40, and comparing
the instantaneous diameter of the groove with the tolerance range for the diameter of the groove
until the groove diameter is within the tolerance range acceptable for the diameter of the groove.
[0053]       Once the final groove diameter 74b is at a predetermined target diameter the control
system 56 halts the motion of the grooving roller 22 toward the drive roller 12, but continues
rotation of the pipe element for at least one full rotation to ensure a uniform grooving depth. The
                                                   18

rotation is then halted and the grooving roller 22 is moved away from the drive roller 12 so that
the pipe element 40 may be removed from the device 10.
[0054]       Another example method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element is
described using the device I0a shown in Figure 1A. This embodiment has two separate idler
rollers, idler roller 22, which is a grooving roller, and idler roller 23, which is a measuring roller.
As described above, the pipe element is engaged with the drive roller 12 (see box 62, Figure 6).
Next, as described in box 64 of Figure 6, grooving roller 22 is moved by the actuator 30 (under
the command of control system 56) toward the drive roller 12 until it engages the outer surface
of the pipe element. It is advantageous to pinch pipe element between the drive roller 12 and the
grooving roller 22 with sufficient force to securely hold the pipe element on the device 10.
Control system 56 also commands actuator 25 to move idler roller 23 into engagement with the
outer surface of the pipe element. At this point, it is possible to determine the diameter of the
pipe element in order to either accept the pipe element and form the circumferential groove, or
reject the pipe element because its diameter is outside of the accepted tolerance range and thus
would be incompatible with other pipe elements of the same nominal size. Determining the pipe
element diameter is represented by box 66 in Figure 6 and is effected by measuring the
circumference of the pipe element while rotating it about its longitudinal axis using drive roller
12 powered by motor 16. Drive roller 12 in turn, rotates the pipe element, which causes idler
roller 23 to rotate about its axis 27. For greater accuracy of the measurement, it is advantageous
if idler roller 23 rotates in response to the pipe element without slipping. The diameter of the
pipe element may then be calculated by knowing the diameter of the surface of the idler roller 23
that is in contact with the pipe element, and counting the number of revolutions of the idler roller
23, including fractions of a rotation, for each revolution of the pipe element. If the diameter D of
the idler roller 23 is known, then the circumference C of the pipe element can be calculated from
the relation C   = (D x rev x fl)where "rev" equals the number of revolutions of the idler roller 23
(including fractions of a rotation) for one revolution of the pipe element. Once the
circumference C of the pipe element is known, the pipe element diameter d can be calculated
from the relation d=C/fl.
                                                    19

[0055]       In device 10a, sensor 32, for example, a rotary encoder, counts the number of
revolutions and fractions thereof of the idler roller 23 and generates a signal indicative thereof.
Each revolution of the pipe element is detected and/or counted by the sensor 34 (for example, a
contrast sensor or a magnetic sensor), which generates signals indicative thereof. Signals from
the sensor 32 and the sensor 34 are transmitted to the control system 56, which performs the
calculations to determine the diameter of the pipe element. The control system may then display
the pipe element diameter to an operator for acceptance or rejection, or, the control system itself
may compare the pipe element diameter with a tolerance range for pipes of a known nominal size
and display an "accept" or "reject" signal to the operator.
[0056]       Box 70 of Figure 6 illustrates forming of a groove in pipe element. Drive roller 12 is
rotated, thereby rotating the pipe element about its longitudinal axis, which rotates the grooving
roller 22 about its axis 24 and the idler roller 23 about its axis 27. Note that the axis of rotation
14 of the drive roller 12, the axis of rotation 24 of the grooving roller 22, the axis of rotation 27
of the idler roller 23 and the longitudinal axis of the pipe element are substantially parallel to one
another. During rotation of the pipe element, the actuator 30 forces the grooving roller 22
against the pipe element, thereby cold working the pipe element, displacing the pipe element
material, and forming the circumferential groove. Also during rotation of the pipe element, the
actuator 25 maintains the idler roller 23 in contact with the pipe element within the groove being
formed by the grooving roller 22.
[0057]       For compatibility of the pipe element with mechanical couplings, it is necessary that
the final diameter of the groove be within an acceptable tolerance for the particular diameter pipe
element being processed. As indicated in box 76, to produce an acceptable groove, the
instantaneous groove diameter (i.e., the groove diameter before it achieves its final diameter) is
determined at intervals while the pipe element is rotating. The instantaneous groove diameter is
determined using signals from the sensor 32 and the sensor 34 as described above for
determining the diameter of the pipe element (Figure 6, box 66). Signals from the sensor 32,
indicative of the number of revolutions (and fractions thereof) of the idler roller 23, and signals
from the sensor 34, indicative of the number of revolutions of the pipe element, constitute a
measurement of the instantaneous circumference of the pipe element within the groove being
formed by the grooving roller 22. These signals are transmitted to the control system 56 which
uses the information in the signals to determine (i.e., calculate) the instantaneous diameter of the
                                                   20

groove (note that the diameter of the idler roller 23 in contact with the pipe element is known).
As shown in Box 78, the control system then compares the instantaneous diameter of the groove
with the appropriate tolerance range for groove diameters for the particular pipe being processed.
As shown in Box 80, if the instantaneous groove diameter is not within the appropriate tolerance
range, for example, the instantaneous groove diameter is larger than the largest acceptable
diameter for the particular pipe element being processed, then the control system 56 continues to
form the groove by rotating the pipe element about its longitudinal axis while forcing the
grooving roller 22 against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element,
determining the instantaneous diameter of the groove (via the idler roller 23 and its associated
sensor 32) while rotating the pipe element, and comparing the instantaneous diameter of the
groove with the tolerance range for the diameter of the groove until the groove diameter is within
the tolerance range acceptable for the diameter of the groove.
[0058]       Once the final groove diameter is at a predetermined target diameter the control
system 56 halts the motion of the grooving roller 22 toward the drive roller 12, but continues
rotation of the pipe element for at least one full rotation to ensure a uniform grooving depth. The
rotation is then halted and the grooving roller 22 and the idler roller 23 are moved away from the
drive roller 12 so that the pipe element may be removed from the device I0a.
[0059]       As shown in Figure 7, the triangulation sensor 46 may also be used to measure a
plurality of dimensions of the pipe element 40 proximate to the groove 72. As shown in Figure
8, dimensions such as the distance 88 from the end of pipe 40 to the groove 72, the width 90 of
the groove, the depth 92 of the groove, and the flare height 94 of the pipe element may be
measured to create a profile of the pipe end. Flare may occur as a result of the grooving process
and flare height is the height of the end of the pipe element above the pipe diameter. This
information may be transmitted to the control system for comparison with acceptable tolerances
for these dimensions for a standard pipe element.
[0060]       As depicted in Figures 7 and 9, measurement of the plurality of dimensions is
effected while rotating the pipe element and comprises projecting a fan-shaped beam of light 50
along a length of the surface of the pipe element 40 which includes the circumferential groove 72
(see Figure 9, box 96). The reflection of the beam 50 is detected by a sensor 54 (box 98). A
calculator unit 55, operatively associated with the sensor 54 uses triangulation methods to
                                                   21

calculate the dimensions of the region of the pipe element 40 swept by the beam 50 (box 100).
The dimensional information is encoded into signals which are transmitted to the control system
56 (see Figure 1), in this example over hardwired lines 58. The dimensional information thus
acquired may be displayed and/or evaluated against a database to characterize the pipe element
as processed.
[0061]      Another example method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element
having a longitudinal axis and using a drive roller and a grooving roller is shown in Figure 10.
This example method comprises:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 102);
                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 104);
                forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about its longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element
(box 106);
                measuring a plurality of circumferences of the groove while rotating the pipe
element (box 108);
                determining a plurality of diameters of the groove using the plurality of
circumferences of the groove (box 110);
                calculating a change in diameter of the groove per revolution of the pipe element
(box 112);
                calculating a number of revolutions of the pipe element needed to form a groove
of a desired diameter using the change in diameter per revolution of the groove (box 114);
                counting the number of revolutions of the pipe element (box 116); and
                stopping forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element upon reaching the
number of revolutions needed to form the groove of the desired diameter (box 118).
[0062]      The method shown in Figure 10 is a predictive method which uses the rate of change
of the diameter per revolution of the pipe element to predict when to stop forming the groove by
displacing the material of the pipe element. As it is possible that the prediction might not yield
as precise a groove diameter as desired, additional steps, shown below, may be advantageous:
                                                 22

                measuring the diameter of the groove (box 120);
                comparing the diameter of the groove to the desired diameter (box 122);
                repeating the forming, measuring, determining, calculating, counting and stopping
steps (box 124).
[0063]      Figure 11 shows a similar predictor-corrector method of forming the groove.
However, this method is based upon the circumference of the groove, not the diameter. In a
particular example the method comprises:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 126);
                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 128);
                forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element
(box 130);
                measuring a plurality of circumferences of the groove while rotating the pipe
element (box 132);
                calculating a change in circumference of the groove per revolution of the pipe
element (box 134);
                calculating a number of revolutions of the pipe element needed to form a groove
of a desired circumference using the change in circumference per revolution of the pipe element
(box 136);
                counting the number of revolutions of the pipe element (box 138); and
                stopping forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element upon reaching the
number of revolutions needed to form the groove of the desired circumference (box 140).
        Again, in order to account for imprecise groove formation using the prediction, the
following steps may be added:
                measuring the circumference of the groove (box 142);
                comparing the circumference of the groove to the desired circumference (box
144);
                                                 23

                repeating the forming, measuring, calculating, counting and stopping steps (box
146).
[0064]      The methods thus far described use substantially continuous feed of the grooving
roller toward the pipe element. However, there may be advantages in efficiency and precision if
the grooving roller is advanced in discrete increments as described in the method shown in
Figure 12 and described below:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 148);
                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 149);
                forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller a discrete distance into the pipe element so as to displace material of
the pipe element for a revolution of the pipe element (box 150);
                measuring a circumference of the groove while rotating the pipe element (box
152);
                determining a diameter of said groove using said circumference of said groove
(box 154);
                comparing the diameter of the groove with a tolerance range for the diameter of
the groove (box 156); and
                until the groove diameter is within the tolerance range:
                repeating said forming, determining and comparing steps (box 158).
[0065]      It may be further advantageous to vary the size of the discrete distance over which the
grooving roller moves, for example by decreasing the discrete distance for each the revolution as
the diameter approaches the tolerance range. This may permit more precision in groove
formation and decrease the time needed to form a groove.
[0066]      The example method described in Figure 13 also uses discrete increments of the
distance traveled by the grooving roller, but bases control of the grooving roller on
measurements of the circumference of the groove, as described below:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 160);
                                                  24

                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 162);
                forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller a discrete distance into the pipe element so as to displace material of
the pipe element for a revolution of the pipe element (box 164);
                measuring a circumference of the groove while rotating the pipe element (box
166);
                comparing the circumference of the groove with a tolerance range for the
circumference of the groove (box 168); and
                until the circumference of the groove is within the tolerance range:
                repeating said forming, measuring and comparing steps (box 170).
[0067]      Again, it may be further advantageous to vary the size of the discrete distance over
which the grooving roller moves, for example by decreasing the discrete distance for each the
revolution as the diameter approaches the tolerance range. This may permit more precision in
groove formation and decrease the time needed to form a groove.
[0068]      In the example method shown in Figure 14, the predictor-corrector aspects are
combined with the discrete step-wise motion of the grooving roller as described below:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 172);
                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 174);
                forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller a discrete distance into the pipe element so as to displace material of
the pipe element for a revolution of the pipe element (box 176);
                calculating a number of revolutions of the pipe element needed to form a groove
of a desired diameter using the discrete distance per revolution of the groove (box 178);
                counting the number of revolutions of the pipe element (box 180); and
                stopping forcing the grooving roller into the pipe element the discrete distance
upon reaching the number of revolutions needed to form the groove of the desired diameter (box
182).
                                                  25

[0069]      Again, it may be advantageous to add the following steps to the method shown in
Figure 14:
                measuring the diameter of the groove (box 184);
                comparing the diameter of the groove to the desired diameter (box 186);
                repeating the forming, measuring, calculating, counting and stopping steps (box
188).
[0070]      In the example method embodiment of Figure 15, the groove depth 92 (see also
Figure 8) is used to control the motion of the grooving roller as described below:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 190);
                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 192);
                measuring a diameter of the pipe element while rotating the pipe element about
the longitudinal axis (box 194);
                calculating a desired groove depth tolerance corresponding to a desired groove
diameter tolerance (box 196);
                forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element
(box 198);
                while rotating the pipe element, measuring the groove depth (box 200);
                comparing the groove depth with the desired groove depth tolerance (box 202);
and
                repeating forming the groove, measuring the groove depth, and comparing the
groove depth with the desired groove depth tolerance until the groove depth is within the desired
groove depth tolerance (box 204).
[0071]      Figure 16 shows an example method where the groove diameter is used to control the
motion of the grooving roller, as described below:
                engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 205);
                engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 206);
                                                 26

               determining a diameter of the pipe element while rotating the pipe element about
the longitudinal axis (box 208);
               determining a desired groove diameter tolerance based upon the diameter of the
pipe element (box 210);
               forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element
(box 212);
               determining the groove diameter while rotating the pipe element (box 214);
               comparing the groove diameter with the desire groove diameter tolerance (box
216);
               repeating the forming the groove and determining the groove diameter until the
groove diameter is within the desired groove diameter tolerance (box 218).
[0072]      Figure 17 illustrates an example method wherein the groove circumference is used to
control the motion of the grooving roller, as described below:
               engaging the pipe element with the drive roller (box 220);
               engaging the grooving roller with the pipe element (box 224);
               measuring a circumference of the pipe element while rotating the pipe element
about the longitudinal axis (box 226);
               determining a desired groove circumference tolerance based upon the diameter of
the pipe element (box 228);
               forming the groove by rotating the pipe element about the longitudinal axis while
forcing the grooving roller against the pipe element so as to displace material of the pipe element
(box 230);
               measuring the groove circumference while rotating the pipe element (box 232);
               comparing the groove circumference with the desired groove circumference
tolerance (box 234);
                                                 27

               repeating the forming the groove, the measuring the groove circumference, and
the comparing the groove circumference steps until the groove circumference is within the
desired groove circumference tolerance (box 236).
[0073]     The methods and apparatus disclosed herein provide increased efficiency in the
formation of grooved pipe elements which reduce the probability of human error as well as the
frequency of mal-formed grooves.
                                               28

                                                  29
CLAIMS
1.     A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe
element;
       measuring a circumference of said groove while rotating said pipe element; determining a
diameter of said groove using said circumference of said groove; comparing said diameter of
said groove with a desired tolerance range;
       repeating said forming, measuring, determining, and comparing until said groove diameter
is within said desired tolerance range.
2.     The method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining a diameter of said pipe
element;
       comparing said diameter of said pipe element with a tolerance range for said diameter of
said pipe element;
       rejecting said pipe element before forming said groove in said pipe element if said
diameter of said pipe element is not within said tolerance range for said diameter of said pipe
element.
3.     The method according to claim 2, wherein determining said diameter of said pipe element
comprises:
       rotating said pipe element while said pipe element is engaged with said grooving roller,
said grooving roller rotating in response to the pipe element;
       knowing a diameter of a surface of said grooving roller engaged with said pipe element;
       determining a number of revolutions of said grooving roller, including fractions thereof,
for each revolution of said pipe element; and
       calculating said diameter of said pipe element, said number of revolutions of said grooving
roller, including said fractions thereof, per revolution of said pipe element being proportional to
said diameter of said pipe element.

                                                  30
4.     The method according to claim 3, wherein determining said number of revolutions of said
grooving roller, including said fractions thereof, comprises counting said number of revolutions
of said grooving roller, including said fractions thereof, for at least one said revolution of said
pipe element.
5.     The method according to claim 4, further comprising determining said at least one
revolution of said pipe element by sensing a feature on said pipe element a first and a second
time while rotating said pipe element.
6.     The method according to claim 4, further comprising determining said at least one
revolution of said pipe element by:
       marking an outer surface of said pipe element with a light reflecting surface that contrasts
with said outer surface of said pipe element;
       shining a light onto said outer surface of said pipe element;
       sensing a first and a second reflection of said light from said light reflecting surface while
rotating said pipe element.
7.     The method according to claim 4, further comprising determining at least one revolution
of said pipe element by:
       positioning a magnet on a surface of said pipe element;
       sensing a first and a second magnetic field while rotating said pipe element.
8.     The method according to claim 1, wherein said engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element comprises pinching said pipe element between said grooving roller and said drive
roller with sufficient force to hold said pipe element therebetween.
9.     The method according to claim 1, further comprising engaging an inner surface of said
pipe element with said drive roller and engaging an outer surface of said pipe element with said
grooving roller.
10.    The method according to claim 1, further comprising selecting a rotational speed for
rotating said pipe element based upon at least one characteristic of said pipe element.

                                                  31
11.    The method according to claim 10, wherein said at least one characteristic of said pipe
element is selected from the group consisting of a diameter, a wall thickness, a material of said
pipe element and combinations thereof.
12.    The method according to claim 1, further comprising selecting a force for forcing said
grooving roller against said pipe element based upon at least one characteristic of said pipe
element.
13.    The method according to claim 12, wherein said at least one characteristic of said pipe
element is selected from the group consisting of a diameter, a wall thickness, a material of said
pipe element and combinations thereof.
14.    The method according to claim 1, further comprising selecting a feed rate of said grooving
roller for forming said groove in said pipe element based upon at least one characteristic of said
pipe element.
15.    The method according to claim 14, wherein said at least one characteristic of said pipe
element is selected from the group consisting of a diameter, a wall thickness, a material of said
pipe element and combinations thereof.
16.    The method according to claim 1, wherein determining said diameter of said groove
comprises:
       knowing a diameter of a surface of said grooving roller engaged with said groove within
said pipe element;
       determining a number of revolutions of said grooving roller, including fractions thereof,
for each revolution of said pipe element;
       calculating said diameter of said groove, said number of revolutions of said grooving
roller, including said fractions thereof, per revolution of said pipe element being proportional to
said diameter of said groove.
17.    The method according to claim 16, wherein determining said number of revolutions of
said grooving roller, including said fractions thereof, comprises counting said number of
revolutions of said grooving roller, including said fractions thereof, for at least one said
revolution of said pipe element.

                                                  32
18.    The method according to claim 17, further comprising determining said at least one
revolution of said pipe element by sensing a feature on said pipe element a first and a second
time while rotating said pipe element.
19.    The method according to claim 17, further comprising determining said at least one
revolution of said pipe element by:
       marking an outer surface of said pipe element with a light reflecting surface that contrasts
with said outer surface of said pipe element;
       shining a light onto said outer surface of said pipe element;
       sensing a first and a second reflection of said light from said light reflecting surface while
rotating said pipe element.
20.    The method according to claim 17, further comprising determining said at least one
revolution of said pipe element by:
       positioning a magnet on a surface of said pipe element;
       sensing a first and a second magnetic field while rotating said pipe element.
21.    The method according to claim 1, further comprising measuring a plurality of dimensions
proximate to said circumferential groove in said pipe element while rotating said pipe element.
22.    The method according to claim 21, wherein said measuring said plurality of dimensions
comprises measuring at least one dimension selected from the group consisting of a distance
from an end of said groove to an end of said pipe, a width of said groove, a depth of said groove,
a flare height of said pipe, and combinations thereof.
23.    A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe
element;
       measuring a plurality of circumferences of said groove while rotating said pipe element;

                                                 33
       determining a plurality of diameters of said groove using said plurality of circumferences
of said groove calculating a change in diameter of said groove per revolution of said pipe
element;
       calculating a number of revolutions of said pipe element needed to form a groove of a
desired diameter using said change in diameter per revolution of said groove;
       counting the number of revolutions of said pipe element; and
       stopping forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element upon reaching said number
of revolutions needed to form said groove of said desired diameter.
24.    The method according to claim 23, further comprising: measuring said diameter of said
groove;
       comparing said diameter of said groove to said desired diameter;
      repeating said forming, measuring, determining, calculating, counting and
       stopping steps.
25.   A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe
element;
      measuring a plurality of circumferences of said groove while rotating said pipe element;
       calculating a change in circumference of said groove per revolution of said pipe element;
       calculating a number of revolutions of said pipe element needed to form a groove of a
desired circumference using said change in circumference per revolution of said pipe element;
       counting the number of revolutions of said pipe element; and
       stopping forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element upon reaching said number
of revolutions needed to form said groove of said desired circumference.
26.    The method according to claim 25, further comprising: measuring said circumference of
said groove;
       comparing said circumference of said groove to said desired circumference; repeating said
forming, measuring, calculating, counting and stopping steps.

                                                 34
27.   A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller a discrete distance into said pipe element so as to displace material
of said pipe element for a revolution of said pipe element;
      measuring a circumference of said groove while rotating said pipe element; determining a
diameter of said groove using said circumference of said groove;
       comparing said diameter of said groove with a tolerance range for said diameter of said
groove; and
      until said groove diameter is within said tolerance range:
      repeating said forming, measuring, determining, and comparing steps.
28.    The method according to claim 27, further comprising decreasing said discrete distance
for each said revolution as said diameter approaches said tolerance range.
29.   A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller a discrete distance into said pipe element so as to displace material
of said pipe element for a revolution of said pipe element;
      measuring a circumference of said groove while rotating said pipe element;
       comparing said circumference of said groove with a tolerance range for said
circumference of said groove; and
      until said circumference of said groove is within said tolerance range: repeating said
forming, measuring and comparing steps.
30.    The method according to claim 29, further comprising decreasing said discrete distance
for each said revolution as said diameter approaches said tolerance range.

                                                 35
31.   A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller a discrete distance into said pipe element so as to displace material
of said pipe element for a revolution of said pipe element;
       calculating a number of revolutions of said pipe element needed to form a groove of a
desired diameter using said discrete distance per revolution of said groove;
       counting the number of revolutions of said pipe element; and
       stopping forcing said grooving roller into said pipe element said discrete distance upon
reaching said number of revolutions needed to form said groove of said desired diameter.
32.    The method according to claim 31, further comprising: measuring said diameter of said
groove;
       comparing said diameter of said groove to said desired diameter; repeating said forming,
calculating, counting and stopping steps.
33.   A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
      measuring a diameter of said pipe element while rotating said pipe element about said
longitudinal axis;
       calculating a desired groove depth tolerance corresponding to a desired groove diameter
tolerance;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe
element;
      while rotating said pipe element, measuring said groove depth;
       comparing said groove depth with said desired groove depth tolerance; and repeating
forming said groove, measuring said groove depth, and comparing said
       groove depth with said desired groove depth tolerance until said groove depth is within
said desired groove depth tolerance.

                                                 36
34.   A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
       determining a diameter of said pipe element while rotating said pipe element about said
longitudinal axis;
       determining a desired groove diameter tolerance based upon said diameter of said pipe
element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe
element;
       determining said groove diameter while rotating said pipe element; comparing said groove
diameter with said desire groove diameter tolerance;
      repeating said forming said groove and determining said groove diameter until said groove
diameter is within said desired groove diameter tolerance.
35.   A method of forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal axis
and using a drive roller and a grooving roller, said method comprising:
       engaging said pipe element with said drive roller; engaging said grooving roller with said
pipe element;
      measuring a circumference of said pipe element while rotating said pipe element about
said longitudinal axis;
       determining a desired groove circumference tolerance based upon said diameter of said
pipe element;
       forming said groove by rotating said pipe element about said longitudinal axis while
forcing said grooving roller against said pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe
element;
      measuring said groove circumference while rotating said pipe element;
       comparing said groove circumference with said desired groove circumference tolerance;
      repeating said forming, measuring, and said comparing until said groove circumference is
within said desired groove circumference tolerance.
36.   A device for forming a circumferential groove in a pipe element having a longitudinal
axis, said device comprising:

                                                   37
       a drive roller rotatable about a drive roller axis, said drive roller being engageable with an
inner surface of said pipe element when said drive roller axis is oriented substantially parallel to
said longitudinal axis of said pipe element;
       a grooving roller rotatable about a grooving roller axis oriented substantially parallel to
said drive roller axis, said grooving roller having a known diameter, said grooving roller being
movable toward and away from said drive roller so as to forcibly engage an outer surface of said
pipe element so as to displace material of said pipe element and form said groove therein upon
rotation of said pipe element;
       a first sensor for determining a degree of rotation of said grooving roller and generating a
first signal indicative thereof;
       a second sensor for determining a degree of rotation of said pipe element and generating a
second signal indicative thereof;
       a control system adapted to receive said first and second signals, use said first and second
signals to determine a diameter of said groove, and control motion of said grooving roller
toward and away from said drive roller in response to said diameter of said groove.
37.    The device according to claim 36, wherein said first sensor comprises a rotational encoder
operatively associated with said grooving roller.
38.    The device according to claim 36, wherein said second sensor comprises:
       a light reflecting surface affixed to an outer surface of said pipe element, said light
reflecting surface contrasting with said outer surface of said pipe element;
       a light projector positioned to project light onto said outer surface of said pipe element and
said light reflecting surface affixed thereto;
       a detector adapted to detect light projected by said light projector upon reflection from
said light reflecting surface, said detector generating said signal indicative thereof.
39.    The device according to claim 38, wherein said light projector comprises a laser.
40.    The device according to claim 38, wherein said light reflecting surface is selected from the
group consisting of a specular reflecting surface, a diffuse reflecting surface, a contrasting color
reflecting surface and combinations thereof.

                                                   38
41.    The device according to claim 36, wherein said second sensor comprises: a magnet affixed
to a surface of said pipe element;
       a detector adapted to detect a magnetic field, said detector generating said signal indicative
thereof.
42.    The device according to claim 36, further comprising a third sensor for measuring a
surface profile of at least a portion of said pipe element and generating a signal indicative
thereof.
43.    The device according to claim 42, wherein said third sensor comprises:
       a laser adapted to project a fan-shaped beam along at least said portion of said pipe
element;
       a detector adapted to receive a reflection of said fan-shaped beam from said portion of said
pipe element;
       a calculator unit for converting said reflection into measurements representing said surface
profile using triangulation, generating said signal indicative of said measurements and
transmitting said signal to said control system.
44.    The device according to claim 36, wherein said grooving roller is mounted on an actuator
controlled by said control system.
                                         Victaulic Company
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
