                                       ABSTRACT
        In one aspect, the invention provides methods and compositions for inhibiting
MASP-3-dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from paroxysmal
nocturnal hemoglobinuria by administering to the subject a composition comprising an
amount of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent in an amount effective to inhibit MASP-3
dependent complement activation. In another aspect, the invention provides methods and
compositions for increasing the survival of red blood cells in a subject suffering from
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria by administering to the subject a composition
comprising an amount of at least one of a MASP-1 inhibitory agent and/or a MASP-3
inhibitory agent effective to increase the survival of red blood cells.         In some
embodiments, the subject is administered a MASP-2 inhibitory agent and a MASP-1
inhibitory  agent, a MASP-2       inhibitory agent and a MASP-3        inhibitory  agent
administered, a MASP-3 inhibitory agent and a MASP-1 inhibitory agent, or a MASP-1
inhibitory agent, a MASP-2 inhibitory agent and a MASP-3 inhibitory agent.

   COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF INHIBITING MASP-1 AND/OR MASP-2
    AND/OR MASP-3 FOR THE TREATMENT OF PAROXYSMAL NOCTURNAL
                                     HEMOGLOBINURIA
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
        This application is a divisional of AU 2013267909 and claims the benefit of
Application No. 61/621,461 filed April 6, 2012, the entire contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
                    STATEMENT REGARDING SEQUENCE LISTING
        The sequence listing associated with this application is provided in text format in
lieu of a paper copy and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The
name       of     the      text     file    containing    the     sequence     listing      is
MP_1_0146_PCTSequence_20130327_ST25.txt. The text file is 85 KB; was created on
April 1, 2013; and is being submitted via EFS-Web with the filing of the specification.
                                         BACKGROUND
        Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded
as relevant, and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
        As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not
intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
        The complement system provides an early acting mechanism to initiate, amplify
and orchestrate the immune response to microbial infection and other acute insults
(M.K. Liszewski and J.P. Atkinson, 1993, in FundamentalImmunology, Third Edition,
edited by W.E. Paul, Raven Press, Ltd., New York), in humans and other vertebrates.
While complement activation provides a valuable first-line defense against potential
pathogens, the activities of complement that promote a protective immune response can
also represent a potential threat to the host (K.R. Kalli, et al., Springer Semin.
Immunopathol. 15:417-431, 1994; B.P. Morgan, Eur. J. Clinical Investig. 24:219-228,
 1994).   For example, C3 and C5 proteolytic products recruit and activate neutrophils.
                                                1

While indispensable for host defense, activated neutrophils are indiscriminate in their
release of destructive enzymes and may cause organ damage. In addition, complement
activation may cause the deposition of lytic complement components on nearby host cells
as well as on microbial targets, resulting in host cell lysis.
        The complement system has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous
acute and chronic disease states, including:         myocardial infarction, stroke, ARDS,
reperfusion   injury,  septic    shock,   capillary   leakage  following    thermal  bums,
                                             -1A-

postcardiopulmonary bypass inflammation, transplant rejection, rheumatoid arthritis,
multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, and Alzheimer's disease.     In almost all of these
conditions, complement is not the cause but is one of several factors involved in
pathogenesis.     Nevertheless, complement activation may be a major pathological
mechanism and represents an effective point for clinical control in many of these disease
states. The growing recognition of the importance of complement-mediated tissue injury
in a variety of disease states underscores the need for effective complement inhibitory
drugs. To date, Eculizumab (Solaris@), an antibody against C5, is the only complement
targeting drug that has been approved for human use. Yet, C5 is one of several effector
molecules located "downstream" in the complement system, and blockade of C5 does not
inhibit activation of the complement system. Therefore, an inhibitor of the initiation
steps of complement activation would have significant advantages over a "downstream"
complement inhibitor.
        Currently, it is widely accepted that the complement system can be activated
through three distinct pathways: the classical pathway, the lectin pathway, and the
alternative pathway. The classical pathway is usually triggered by a complex composed
of host antibodies bound to a foreign particle (i.e., an antigen) and thus requires prior
exposure to an antigen for the generation of a specific antibody response.          Since
activation of the classical pathway depends on a prior adaptive immune response by the
host, the classical pathway is part of the acquired immune system. In contrast, both the
lectin and alternative pathways are independent of adaptive immunity and are part of the
innate immune system.
        The activation of the complement system results in the sequential activation of
serine protease zymogens.     The first step in activation of the classical pathway is the
binding of a specific recognition molecule, Clq, to antigen-bound IgG and IgM
molecules. Clq is associated with the Cir and Cls serine protease proenzymes as a
complex called Cl.      Upon binding ofClq to an immune complex, autoproteolytic
cleavage of the Arg-Ile site of Clr is followed by Clr-mediated cleavage and activation
of Cls, which thereby acquires the ability to cleave C4 and C2. C4 is cleaved into two
fragments, designated C4a and C4b, and, similarly, C2 is cleaved into C2a and C2b. C4b
fragments are able to form covalent bonds with adjacent hydroxyl or amino groups and
generate the C3 convertase (C4b2a) through noncovalent interaction with the C2a
fragment of activated C2. C3 convertase (C4b2a) activates C3 by proteolytic cleavage
                                             -2-

into C3a and C3b subcomponents leading to generation of the C5 convertase (C4b2a3b),
which, by cleaving C5 leads to the formation of the membrane attack complex (C5b
combined with C6, C7, C8 and C-9, also referred to as "MAC") that can disrupt cellular
membranes resulting in cell lysis. The activated forms of C3 and C4 (C3b and C4b) are
covalently deposited on the foreign target surfaces, which are recognized by complement
receptors on multiple phagocytes.
          Independently, the first step in activation of the complement system through the
lectin pathway is also the binding of specific recognition molecules, which is followed by
the activation of associated serine protease proenzymes.             However, rather than the
binding of immune complexes by C Iq, the recognition molecules in the lectin pathway
comprise a group of carbohydrate-binding proteins (mannan-binding lectin (MBL),
H-ficolin, M-ficolin, L-ficolin and C-type lectin CL-1 1), collectively referred to as
lectins. See J. Lu et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1572:387-400, (2002); Holmskov et al.,
Annu. Rev. Immunol. 21:547-578 (2003); Teh et al., Immunology 101:225-232 (2000)).
See also J. Luet et al., Biochim Biophys Acta 1572:387-400 (2002); Holmskov et al, Annu
Rev Inmunol 21:547-578 (2003); Teh et al., Immunology 101:225-232 (2000); Hansen et
al, .J. Immunol 185(10):6096-6104 (2010).
          Ikeda et al. first demonstrated that, like C Iq, MBL could activate the complement
system upon binding to yeast mannan-coated erythrocytes in a C4-dependent manner
(Ikeda et al., J. Biol. Chem. 262:7451-7454, (1987)).       MBL, a member of the collectin
protein family, is a calcium-dependent lectin that binds carbohydrates with 3-and 4
hydroxy groups oriented in the equatorial plane of the pyranose ring. Prominent ligands
for MBL are thus D-mannose and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, while carbohydrates not
fitting this steric requirement have undetectable            affinity for MBL (Weis et al.,
Nature 360:127-134, (1992)).       The interaction between MBL and monovalent sugars is
extremely weak, with dissociation constants typically in the single-digit millimolar range.
MBL achieves tight, specific binding to glycan ligands by avidity, i.e., by interacting
simultaneously with multiple monosaccharide residues located in close proximity to each
other (Lee et al., Archiv. Biochem. Biophys. 299:129-136, (1992)). MBL recognizes the
carbohydrate patterns that commonly decorate microorganisms such as bacteria, yeast,
parasites and certain viruses. In contrast, MBL does not recognize D-galactose and sialic
acid, the penultimate and ultimate sugars that usually decorate "mature" complex
glycoconjugates present on mammalian plasma and cell surface glycoproteins.              This
                                                 -3-

binding specificity is thought to promote recognition of "foreign" surfaces and help
protect from "self-activation." However, MBL does bind with high affinity to clusters of
high-mannose "precursor" glycans on N-linked glycoproteins and glycolipids sequestered
in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi of mammalian cells (Maynard et al., J Biol.
Chen. 257:3788-3794, (1982)).      In addition, it has been shown that MBL can bind the
polynucleotides, DNA and RNA, which may be exposed on necrotic and apoptotic cells
(Palaniyar et al., Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci., 1010:467-470 (2003); Nakamura et al., J. Leuk.
Biol. 86:737-748 (2009)).      Therefore, damaged cells are potential targets for lectin
pathway activation via MBL binding.
        The ficolins possess a different type of lectin domain than MBL, called the
fibrinogen-like domain. Ficolins bind sugar residues in a Ca-independent manner. In
humans, three kinds of ficolins (L-ficolin, M-ficolin and H-ficolin) have been identified.
The two serum ficolins, L-ficolin and H-ficolin, have in common a specificity for
N-acetyl-D-glucosamine; however, H-ficolin also binds N-acetyl-D-galactosamine.        The
difference in sugar specificity of L-ficolin, H-ficolin, CL-11, and MBL means that the
different lectins may be complementary and target different, though overlapping,
glycoconjugates. This concept is supported by the recent report that, of the known lectins
in the lectin pathway, only L-ficolin binds specifically to lipoteichoic acid, a cell wall
glycoconjugate found on all Gram-positive            bacteria (Lynch et al.,   J. fninunol.
172:1198-1202, (2004)). In addition to acetylated sugar moieties, the ficolins can also
bind acetylated amino acids and polypeptides (Thomsen et al., Mol. Immunol. 48(4):369
81 (2011)). The collectins (i.e., MBL) and the ficolins bear no significant similarity in
amino acid sequence.        However, the two groups of proteins have similar domain
organizations and, like Clq, assemble into oligomeric structures, which maximize the
possibility of multisite binding.
        The serum concentrations of MBL are highly variable in healthy populations and
this is genetically controlled by polymorphisms/mutations in both the promoter and
coding regions of the MBL gene. As an acute phase protein, the expression of MBL is
further upregulated during inflammation. L-ficolin is present in serum at concentrations
similar to those of MBL.        Therefore, the L-ficolin branch of the lectin pathway is
potentially comparable to the MBL arm in strength. MBL and ficolins can also function
as opsonins, which allow phagocytes to target MBL- and ficolin-decorated surfaces (see
Jack et al., J Leukoc Biol., 77(3):328-36 (2004), Matsushita and Fujita,    nniunobiology,
                                             -4-

205(4-5):490-7     (2002), Aoyagi    et al., J Imnunol, 174(1):418-25(2005).             This
opsonization requires the interaction of these proteins with phagocyte receptors (Kuhlman
et al., . Exp. Med. 169:1733, (1989); Matsushita et al., J. Biol. Chem. 271:2448-54,
(1996)), the indentity of which has not been established.
         Human MBL forms a specific and high-affinity               interaction through its
collagen-like domain with unique Clr/Cls-like serine proteases, termed MBL-associated
serine proteases (MASPs). To date, three MASPs have been described. First, a single
enzyme "MASP" was identified and characterized as the enzyme responsible for the
initiation of the complement cascade (i.e., cleaving C2 and C4) (Matsushita et al., J Exp
Med 176(6):1497-1502 (1992); Ji et al., J. Immunol. 150:571-578, (1993)).             It was
subsequently determined that the MASP activity was, in fact, a mixture of two proteases:
MASP-1 and MASP-2 (Thiel et al., Nature 386:506-510, (1997)).               However, it was
demonstrated that the MBL-MASP-2 complex alone is sufficient for complement
activation (Vorup-Jensen et al., J. Immunol. 165:2093-2100, (2000)). Furthermore, only
MASP-2 cleaved C2 and C4 at high rates (Ambrus et al., J. Immunol. 170:1374-1382,
(2003)).   Therefore, MASP-2 is the protease responsible for activating C4 and C2 to
generate the C3 convertase, C4b2a. This is a significant difference from the C1 complex
of the classical pathway, where the coordinated action of two specific serine proteases
(CIr and Cis) leads to the activation of the complement system. In addition, a third
novel protease, MASP-3, has been isolated (Dahl, M.R., et al., Immunity 15:127-35,
2001). MASP-1 and MASP-3 are alternatively spliced products of the same gene.
         MASPs share identical domain organizations with those of CIr and Cls, the
enzymatic components of the Cl complex (Sim et al., Biochem. Soc. Trans. 28:545,
(2000)).     These domains include an N-terminal Clr/Cls/sea urchin VEGF/bone
morphogenic protein (CUB) domain, an epidermal growth factor-like domain, a second
CUB domain, a tandem of complement control protein domains, and a serine protease
domain. As in the Cl proteases, activation of MASP-2 occurs through cleavage of an
Arg-Ile bond adjacent to the series protease domain, which splits the enzyme into
disulfide-linked A and B chains, the latter consisting of the serine protease domain.
         MBL can also associate with an alternatively spliced form of MASP-2, known as
MBL-associated protein of 19 kDa (MAp19) or small MBL-associated protein (sMAP),
which lacks the catalytic activity of MASP-2. (Stover, .J. Immunol. 162:3481-90, (1999);
Takahashi et al., Int. Immunol. /1:859-863, (1999)).       MAp19 comprises the first two
                                             -5-

domains of MASP-2, followed by an extra sequence of four unique amino acids. The
function of Map19 is unclear (Degn et al., Jlmnunol. Methods, 2011). The MASP-1 and
MASP-2       genes    are   located   on    human    chromosomes 3     and 1,  respectively
(Schwaeble et al., Innunobiology 205:455-466, (2002)).
         Several lines of evidence suggest that there are different MBL-MASP complexes
and a large fraction of the MASPs in serum is not complexed with MBL (Thiel,et al., J.
Immunol. 165:878-887, (2000)). Both H- and L-ficolin bind to all MASPs and activate
the lectin complement pathway, as does MBL (Dahl et al., Immunity 15:127-35, (2001);
Matsushita et al., J. Immunol. 168:3502-3506, (2002)).        Both the lectin and classical
pathways form a common C3 convertase (C4b2a) and the two pathways converge at this
step.
         The lectin pathway is widely thought to have a major role in host defense against
infection in the naive host. Strong evidence for the involvement of MBL in host defense
comes from analysis of patients with decreased serum levels of functional MBL
(Kilpatrick, Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1572:401-413, (2002)).           Such patients display
susceptibility to recurrent bacterial and fungal infections. These symptoms are usually
evident early in life, during an apparent window of vulnerability as maternally derived
antibody titer wanes, but before a full repertoire of antibody responses develops. This
syndrome often results from mutations at several sites in the collagenous portion of MBL,
which interfere with proper formation of MBL oligomers.          However, since MBL can
function as an opsonin independent of complement, it is not known to what extent the
increased susceptibility to infection is due to impaired complement activation.
         In contrast to the classical and lectin pathways, no initiators of the alternative
pathway have previously been found to fulfill the recognition functions that Clq and
lectins perform in the other two pathways.        Currently it is widely accepted that the
alternative pathway spontaneously undergoes a low level of turnover activation, which
can be readily amplified on foreign or other abnormal surfaces (bacteria, yeast, virally
infected cells, or damaged tissue) that lack the proper molecular elements that keep
spontaneous complement activation in check.        There are four plasma proteins directly
involved in the activation of the alternative pathway: C3, factors B and D, and properdin.
         Although there is extensive evidence implicating both the classical and alternative
complement pathways in the pathogenesis of non-infectious human diseases, the role of
the lectin pathway is just beginning to be evaluated. Recent studies provide evidence that
                                              -6-

activation of the lectin pathway can be responsible for complement activation and related
inflammation in ischemia/reperfusion injury. Collard et al. (2000) reported that cultured
endothelial cells subjected to oxidative stress bind MBL and show deposition of C3 upon
exposure to human serum (Collard et al., Am. J. Pathol. 156:1549-1556, (2000)).          In
addition, treatment of human sera with blocking anti-MBL monoclonal antibodies
inhibited MBL binding and complement activation. These findings were extended to a
rat model of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion in which rats treated with a blocking
antibody directed against rat MBL showed significantly less myocardial damage upon
occlusion of a coronary artery than rats treated with a control antibody (Jordan et al.,
Circulation 104:1413-1418, (2001)). The molecular mechanism of MBL binding to the
vascular endothelium after oxidative stress is unclear; a recent study suggests that
activation of the lectin pathway after oxidative stress may be mediated by MBL binding
to vascular endothelial cytokeratins, and not to glycoconjugates (Collard et al., Am. J.
Pathol. 159:1045-1054, (2001)).        Other studies have implicated the classical and
alternative pathways in the pathogenesis of ischemia/reperfusion injury and the role of the
lectin pathway in this disease remains controversial (Riedermann, N.C., et al., Am. J.
Pathol. 162:363-367, 2003).
        Recent studies have shown that MASP-1 and MASP-3 convert the alternative
pathway activation enzyme factor D from its zymogen form into its enzymatically active
form (see Takahashi M. et al., J Exp Med 207(1):29-37 (2010); Iwaki et al., J. Immunol.
187:3751-58 (2011)). The physiological importance of this process is underlined by the
absence of alternative pathway functional activity in plasma of MASP-1/3-deficient mice.
Proteolytic generation of C3b from native C3 is required for the alternative pathway to
function.    Since the alternative pathway C3 convertase (C3bBb) contains C3b as an
essential subunit, the question regarding the origin of the first C3b via the alternative
pathway has presented a puzzling problem and has stimulated considerable research.
        C3 belongs to a family of proteins (along with C4 and a-2 macroglobulin) that
contain a rare posttranslational modification known as a thioester bond. The thioester
group is composed of a glutamine whose terminal carbonyl group forms a covalent
thioester linkage with the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine three amino acids away. This
bond is unstable and the electrophilic glutamyl-thioester can react with nucleophilic
moieties such as hydroxyl or amino groups and thus form a covalent bond with other
molecules.      The thioester bond is reasonably stable when sequestered within a
                                             -7-

hydrophobic pocket of intact C3. However, proteolytic cleavage of C3 to C3a and C3b
results in exposure of the highly reactive thioester bond on C3b and, following
nucleophilic attack by adjacent moieties comprising hydroxyl or amino groups, C3b
becomes covalently linked to a target. In addition to its well-documented role in covalent
attachment of C3b to complement targets, the C3 thioester is also thought to have a
pivotal role in triggering the alternative pathway. According to the widely accepted
"tick-over theory", the alternative pathway is initiated by the generation of a fluid-phase
convertase, iC3Bb, which is formed from C3 with hydrolyzed thioester (iC3; C3(H 20))
and factor B (Lachmann, P.J., et al., Springer Semin. Immunopathol. 7:143-162, (1984)).
The C3b-like C3(H 20) is generated from native C3 by a slow spontaneous hydrolysis of
the internal thioester in the protein (Pangburn, M.K., et al., J. Exp. Med. 154:856-867,
1981). Through the activity of the C3(H 20)Bb convertase, C3b molecules are deposited
on the target surface thereby initiating the alternative pathway.
         Prior to the instant discovery described herein, very little was known about the
initiators of activation of the alternative pathway. Activators were thought to include
yeast cell walls (zymosan), many pure polysaccharides, rabbit erythrocytes, certain
immunoglobulins, viruses, fungi, bacteria, animal tumor cells, parasites, and damaged
cells. The only feature common to these activators is the presence of carbohydrate, but
the complexity and variety of carbohydrate structures has made it difficult to establish the
shared molecular determinants which are recognized. It has been widely accepted that
alternative pathway activation is controlled through the fine balance between inhibitory
regulatory components of this pathway, such as factor H, factor I, DAF, and CR1, and
properdin, the latter of which is the only positive regulator of the alternative pathway (see
Schwaeble W.J. and Reid K.B., Imnunol Today 20(1):17-21 (1999)).
         In addition to the apparently unregulated activation mechanism described above,
the alternative pathway can also provide a powerful amplification loop for the
lectin/classical pathway C3 convertase (C4b2a) since any C3b generated can participate
with factor B in forming additional alternative pathway C3 convertase (C3bBb).           The
alternative pathway C3 convertase is stabilized by the binding of properdin. Properdin
extends the alternative pathway C3 convertase half-life six to ten fold. Addition of C3b
to the alternative pathway C3 convertase leads to the formation of the alternative pathway
C5 convertase.
                                              -8-

         All three pathways (i.e., the classical, lectin and alternative) have been thought to
converge at C5, which is cleaved to form products with multiple proinflammatory effects.
The converged pathway has been referred to as the terminal complement pathway. C5a is
the most potent anaphylatoxin, inducing alterations in smooth muscle and vascular tone,
as well as vascular permeability. It is also a powerful chemotaxin and activator of both
neutrophils and monocytes. C5a-mediated cellular activation can significantly amplify
inflammatory responses by inducing the release of multiple additional inflammatory
mediators, including cytokines, hydrolytic enzymes, arachidonic acid metabolites, and
reactive oxygen species. C5 cleavage leads to the formation of C5b-9, also known as the
membrane attack complex (MAC).           There is now strong evidence that sublytic MAC
deposition may play an important role in inflammation in addition to its role as a lytic
pore-forming complex.
         In addition to its essential role in immune defense, the complement system
contributes to tissue damage in many clinical conditions. Thus, there is a pressing need
to develop therapeutically effective complement inhibitors to prevent these adverse
effects.
                                         SUMMARY
         In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of inhibiting MASP-3
dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from paroxysmal nocturnal
hemoglobinuria (PNH). The method includes the step of administering to the subject a
composition comprising an amount of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent effective to inhibit
MASP-3-dependent complement activation. In some embodiments, the method further
comprises administering to the subject a composition comprising a MASP-2 inhibitory
agent.
         In another aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising at least one inhibitory agent, wherein the at least one inhibitory agent
comprises a MASP-2         inhibitory agent and a MASP-3             inhibitory agent and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
         In another aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a MASP-3 inhibitory agent that binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:
10: full-length) and that also binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8) and a
pharmaceutical carrier.
                                               -9-

        In another aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a MASP-3 inhibitory agent that binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:
5: full-length) and that also binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8) and a
pharmaceutical carrier.
        In another aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a MASP-3 inhibitory agent that binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:
10: full-length) and that also binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) and a
pharmaceutical carrier.
        In another aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a MASP-3 inhibitory agent that binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:
10 full length), that binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO: 5: full-length) and that
also binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8) and a pharmaceutical carrier.
        As described herein, the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be
used in accordance with the methods of the invention.
        These and other aspects and embodiments of the herein described invention will
be evident upon reference to the following detailed description and drawings. All of the
U.S. patents, U.S. patent application publications, U.S. patent applications, foreign
patents, foreign patent applications and non-patent publications referred to in this
specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, as if each was
incorporated individually.
                           DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        The foregoing aspects and many of the attendant advantages of this invention will
become more readily appreciated as the same become better understood by reference to
the following detailed description, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings, wherein:
        FIGURE 1 illustrates a new understanding of the lectin and alternative pathways;
        FIGURE 2 is a schematic diagram adapted from Schwaeblc et al., Innunobiol
205:455-466 (2002), as modified by Yongqing et al., BBA 1824:253 (2012), illustrating
the MASP-2 and MAp 19 protein domains and the exons encoding the same;
        FIGURE 3 is a schematic diagram adapted from Schwaeble et al., Innunobiol
205:455-466 (2002), as modified by Yongqing et al., BRA 1824:253 (2012), illustrating
the MASP-1, MASP-3 and MAp44 protein domains and the exons encoding the same;
                                            -10-

        FIGURE 4 shows an alignment of the amino acid sequences of the MASP-1,
MASP-2 and MASP-3 proteins and indicates consensus regions therebetween;
        FIGURE 5 shows an alignment of the amino acid sequences of the MASP-1,
MASP-2 and MASP-3 Alpha chains;
        FIGURE 6 shows an alignment of the amino acid sequences of the MASP-1,
MASP-2 and MASP-3 Beta Chains;
        FIGURE 7A shows a pairwise alignment of the amino acid sequences of the
MASP-1 and MASP-2 Protease Domains (Beta-chains);
        FIGURE 7B shows a pairwise alignment of the amino acid sequences of the
MASP-1 and MASP-3 Protease Domains (Beta-chains);
        FIGURE 7C shows a pairwise alignment of the amino acid sequences of the
MASP-2 and MASP-3 Protease Domains (Beta-chains);
        FIGURE 8 is a Kaplan-Meyer plot graphically illustrating the percent survival of
MASP-2 KO and WT mice after administration of an infective dose of 2.6 x 107 cfu of N.
meningitidis serogroup A Z2491, demonstrating that MASP-2 deficient mice are
protected from N. meningitidis induced mortality, as described in Example 1;
        FIGURE 9 is a Kaplan-Meyer plot graphically illustrating the percent survival of
MASP-2 KO and WT mice after administration of an infective dose of 6 x 106 efu of N.
meningitidis serogroup B strain MC58, demonstrating that MASP-2 deficient mice are
protected from N. ineningitidisinduced mortality, as described in Example 1;
        FIGURE 10 graphically illustrates the log efu/mL of N. meningitidis serogroup B
strain MC58 per mL of blood recovered from MASP-2 KO and WT mice at different
time points after i.p. infection with 6x106 cfu of N. meningitidis serogroup B strain MC58
(n=3 at different time points for both groups of mice), demonstrating that although the
MASP-2 KO mice were infected with the same dose of N. meningitidis serogroup B
strain MC58 as the WT mice, the MASP-2 KO mice have enhanced clearance of
bacteremia as compared to WT, as described in Example 1;
        FIGURE 11 graphically illustrates the average illness score of MASP-2 KO and
WT mice at 3, 6, 12 and 24 hours after infection with 6x10 6 cfu of N. meningitidis
serogroup B strain MC58, demonstrating that the MASP-2-deficient mice showed much
lower illness scores at 6 hours, 12 hours, and 24 hours after infection, as compared to WT
mice, as described in Example 1;
                                             -11-

        FIGURE 12 is a Kaplan-Meyer plot graphically illustrating the percent survival of
mice after administration of an infective dose of 4x 106 cfu of . meningitidis serogroup B
strain MC58, followed by administration 3 hours post-infection of either inhibitory
MASP-2 antibody (1 mg/kg) or control isotype antibody, demonstrating that MASP-2
antibody is effective to treat and improve survival in subjects infected with N.
 neningitidis,as described in Example 2;
        FIGURE 13 graphically illustrates the log cfu/mL of viable counts of N.
meningitidis serogroup B strain MC58 recovered at different time points in the human
sera samples shown in TABLE 5 taken at various time points after incubation with N.
meningitidis serogroup B strain MC58, as described in Example 3;
        FIGURE 14 graphically illustrates the log cfu/mL of viable counts of N.
ineningitidis serogroup B-MC58 recovered at different time points in the human sera
samples shown in TABLE 7, showing that complement-dependent killing of N.
meningitidis in human 20% (v/v) serum is MASP-3 and MBL-dependent, as described in
Example 3;
        FIGURE 15 graphically illustrates the log efu/mL of viable counts of N.
meningitidis serogroup B-MC58 recovered at different time points in the mouse sera
samples shown in TABLE 9, showing that the MASP-2 -/- knockout mouse (referred to
as "MASP-2 -/-") serum has a higher level of bactericidal activity for N. meningitidis
than WT mouse serum, whereas in contrast, the MASP-1/3 -/- mouse serum does not
have any bactericidal activity, as described in Example 3;
        FIGURE 16 graphically illustrates the kinetics of C3 activation under lectin
pathway-specific conditions (1% plasma) in WT, C4-/-, MASP-1/3-/-, Factor B-/- and
MASP-2-/- mouse sera, as described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 17 graphically illustrates the level of alternative pathway-driven (AP
driven) C3b deposition on zymosan-coated microtiter plates under "traditional"
alternative pathway-specific (AP-specific) conditions (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg** without
Ca)    as a function of serum concentration in serum samples obtained from MASP-3
deficient, C4-deficient and MBL-deficient human subjects, as described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 18 graphically illustrates the level of AP-driven C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates under "traditional"         AP-specific conditions (i.e.,
BBS/EGTA/Mg'        without Ca')    as a function of time in 10% human serum samples
                                            -12-

obtained from MASP-3-deficient, C4-deficient and MBL-deficient human subjects, as
described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 19A graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition on mannan
coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum samples obtained
from WT, MASP-2-deficient, and MASP-1/3-deficient mice under "traditional" AP
specific conditions    (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"       without Ca+)      or under physiological
conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the alternative pathway (AP) to function
(BBS/Mg/Ca"), as described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 19B graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition on zymosan
coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum samples obtained
from WT, MASP-2-deficient, and MASP-1/3-deficient mice under traditional AP-specific
conditions (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"         without Ca") or under physiological conditions
allowing both     the   lectin  pathway   and   the   alternative  pathway  to   function
(BBS/Mg'/Ca"), as described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 19C graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition on S. pneumoniae
D39-coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum samples
obtained from WT, MASP-2-deficient, and MASP-1/3-deficient mice under traditional
AP-specific conditions (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"         without Ca") or under physiological
conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to function
(BBS/Mg/Ca), as described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 20A graphically illustrates the results of a C3b deposition assay in
highly diluted sera carried out on mannan-coated microtiter plates under traditional AP
specific conditions    (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"       without Ca") or under physiological
conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to function
(BBS/Mg/Ca), using serum concentrations ranging from 0 % up to 1.25%, as
described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 20B graphically illustrates the results of a C3b deposition assay carried
out on zymosan-coated microtiter plates under traditional AP-specific conditions (i.e.
BBS/EGTA/Mg"        without Ca") or under physiological conditions allowing both the
lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to function (BBS/Mg"/Ca ), using serum
concentrations ranging from 0 % up to 1.25%, as described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 20C graphically illustrates the results of a C3b deposition assay carried
out on S. pneumoniae D39-coated microtiter plates under traditional AP-specific
                                           -13-

conditions (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"- without Ca')            or under physiological conditions
allowing both      the   lectin   pathway    and   the alternative  pathway   to   function
(BBS/Mg7*/Ca7+), using serum concentrations ranging from 0 % up to 1.25%, as
described in Example 4;
        FIGURE 21 graphically illustrates the level of hemolysis (as measured by
hemoglobin release of lysed mouse erythrocytes (Crry/C3-/-) into the supernatant
measured by photometry) of mannan-coated murine erythrocytes by human serum under
physiological conditions (i.e., in the presence of Ca-+) over a range of serum dilutions in
serum from MASP-3-/-, heat inactivated normal human serum (HI NHS), MBL-/-, NHS
+ MASP-2 monoclonal antibody and NHS control, as described in Example 5;
        FIGURE 22 graphically illustrates the level of hemolysis (as measured by
hemoglobin release of lysed mouse erythrocytes (Crry/C3-/-) into the supernatant
measured by photometry) of mannan-coated murine erythrocytes by human serum under
physiological conditions (i.e., in the presence of Ca++) over a range of serum
concentration in serum from MASP-3-/-, heat inactivated (HI) NHS, MBL-/-, NHS +
MASP-2 monoclonal antibody and NHS control, as described in Example 5;
        FIGURE 23 graphically illustrates the level of hemolysis (as measured by
hemoglobin release of lysed WT mouse erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by
photometry) of non-coated murine erythrocytes by human serum under physiological
conditions (i.e., in the presence of Ca7*) over a range of serum concentrations in serum
from 3MC (MASP-3-/-),           heat inactivated (HI) NHS, MBL-/-, NHS + MASP-2
monoclonal antibody and NHS control, as described in Example 5;
        FIGURE 24 graphically illustrates hemolysis (as measured by hemoglobin release
of lysed mouse erythrocytes (CD55/59-/-) into the supernatant measured by photometry)
of non-coated murine erythrocytes by human serum under physiological conditions (i.e.,
in the presence of Ca7*) over a range of serum concentrations in serum from heat
inactivated (HI) NHS, MBL-/-, NHS + MASP-2 monoclonal antibody and NHS control,
as described in Example 5;
        FIGURE 25 graphically illustrates hemolysis (as measured by hemoglobin release
of lysed rabbit erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by photometry) of mannan
coated rabbit erythrocytes by MASP-1/3-/- mouse serum and WT control mouse serum
under physiological conditions (i.e., in the presence of Ca") over a range of serum
concentrations, as described in Example 6;
                                              -14-

        FIGURE 26 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition (OD 405 nm) on a
zymosan-coated microtiter plate as a function of serum concentration in serum samples
from factor D-/-, MASP-2-/- and WT mouse sera in a C3 deposition assay carried out
under AP-specific conditions, as described in Example 7;
        FIGURE 27 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition (OD 405 nm) on a
zymosan-coated microtiter plate as a function of serum concentration in serum samples
from factor D-/-; MASP-2-/- and WT mouse sera in a C3 deposition assay carried out
under physiological conditions (in the presence of Ca++), as described in Example 7;
        FIGURE 28 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition (OD 405 nm) on a
zymosan-coated microtiter plate as a function of serum incubation time (minutes) in
mouse serum samples obtained from factor D-/-; factor B-/-; plus and minus MASP-2
monoclonal antibody in a C3b deposition assay carried out under physiological
conditions (in the presence of Ca+*), as described in Example 7;
        FIGURE 29A graphically illustrates lectin pathway specific C4b deposition on a
zymosan-coated microtiter plate, measured ex vivo in undiluted serum samples taken
from mice (n=3 mice/group) at various time points after subcutaneous dosing of either
0.3 mg/kg or 1.0 mg/kg of the mouse MASP-2 MoAb, as described in Example 13;
        FIGURE 29B graphically illustrates the time course of lectin pathway recovery
for three weeks following a single intraperitoneal administration of mouse MASP-2
MoAb at 0.6 mg/kg in mice, as described in Example 13;
        FIGURE 30A is a FACS histogram of MASP-3 antigen/antibody binding for
clone M3J5, as described in Example 15;
        FIGURE 30B is a FACS histogram of MASP-3 antigen/antibody binding for
clone M3M1, as described in Example 15;
        FIGURE 31 graphically illustrates a saturation binding curve of clone M3J5
(Clone 5) for the MASP-3 antigen, as described in Example 15;
        FIGURE 32A is an amino acid sequence alignment of the VH regions of M3J5,
M3M1, D14 and 1E1O to the chicken DT40 VH sequence, wherein dots represent amino
acid identity with the DT40 sequence and dashes indicate spaces introduced to maximize
the alignment, as described in Example 15;
        FIGURE 32B is an amino acid sequence alignment of the VL regions of M3J5,
M3M1, D14 and IE10 to the chicken DT40 VL sequence, wherein dots represent amino
                                            -15-

acid identity with the DT40 sequence and dashes indicate spaces introduced to maximize
the alignment, as described in Example 15;
        FIGURE 33 is a bar graph showing the inhibitory activity of the mAbl El0 in the
Wieslab Complement System Screen, MBL Pathway in comparison to the positive serum
provided with the assay kit, as well as an isotype control antibody, demonstrating that
mAblE10 partial inhibits LEA-2-dependent activation, (via inhibition of MASP-1
dependent activation of MASP-2), whereas the isotype control antibody does not, as
described in Example 15;
        FIGURE 34 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition for 1% normal
human serum plus isotype control, SGMI-1Fc or SGMI-2Fc over a concentration range of
0.15 to 1000 nM, demonstrating that both SGMI-1Fc and SGMI-2Fc inhibited C3b
deposition from normal serum in mannan-coated ELISA wells, with IC50 values of
approximately 27nM and 300nM, respectively, as described in Example 16;
        FIGURE 35A provides the results of flow cytometry analysis for C3b deposition
on heat-killedS Staphylococcus aureus, demonstrating that in normal human serum in the
presence of EDTA, which is known to inactivate the lectin and alternative pathways, no
C3b deposition was observed (panel 1), in normal human serum treated with
Mg7'/EGTA, alternative pathway-driven C3b deposition is observed (panel 2), and as
shown in panel 3, 4 and 5, in factor B-depleted, factor D-depleted and properdin (factor
P)-depleted serum, respectively, no alternative pathway driven C3b deposition is
observed, as described in Example 17;
        FIGURE 35B provides the results of flow cytometry analysis for C3b deposition
on heat-killed S. aureus, demonstrating that, as in EDTA-treated normal serum (panel 1),
AP-driven C3b deposition is absent in 3MC serum in the presence of Mg++/EGTA (panel
3), whereas panels 4 and 5 show that active full length rMASP-3 (panel 4) and active
rMASP-3 (CCP1-CCP2-SP) (panel 5) both restore AP-driven C3b deposition in 3MC
serum to levels observed in normal serum treated with Mg++/EGTA (panel 2), neither
inactive rMASP-3 (S679A) (panel 6) nor wild type rMASP-1 (panel 7) can restore AP
driven C3b deposition in 3MC serum, as described in Example 17;
        FIGURE 36 shows the results of a Western blot analysis to determine factor B
cleavage in response to S. aureus in 3MC serum in the presence or absence of rMASP-3,
demonstrating that the normal human serum in the presence of EDTA (negative control,
lane 1) demonstrates very little Factor B cleavage relative to normal human serum in the
                                           -16-

presence of Mg /EGTA, shown in lane 2 (positive control), as further shown in lane 3,
3MC serum demonstrates very little Factor B cleavage in the presence of Mg /EGTA.
However, as shown in lane 4, Factor B cleavage is restored by the addition and pre
incubation of full-length, recombinant MASP-3 protein to the 3MC serum, as described
in Example 17;
        FIGURE 37 shows Comassie staining of a protein gel in which Factor B cleavage
is analyzed, demonstrating that Factor B cleavage is most optimal in the presence of C3,
MASP-3 and pro-factor D (lane 1), and as shown in lanes 4 and 5, either MASP-3 or pro
factor D alone are able to mediate Factor B cleavage, as long as C3 is present, as
described in Example 17;
        FIGURE 38 graphically illustrates the mean fluorescent intensities (MFI) of C3b
staining of S. aureus obtained from mAbD14 (which binds MASP-3), mAblA5 (negative
control antibody) and an isotype control antibody plotted as a function of mAb
concentration in 3MC serum in the presence of rMASP-3, demonstrating that mAbD14
inhibits MASP-3-dependent C3b deposition in a concentration-dependent manner, as
described in Example 17;
        FIGURE 39 shows Western blot analysis of pro-factor D substrate cleavage,
wherein compared to pro-factor D alone (lane 1) or the inactive full length recombinant
MASP-3 (S679A; lane 3) or MASP-1 (S646A; lane 4), full length wild type recombinant
MASP-3 (lane2) and MASP-1 (lane 5) either completely or partially cleave pro-factor D
to generate mature factor D, as described in Example 18;
        FIGURE 40 is a Western blot showing the inhibitory activity of the MASP-3
binding mAbs D14 (lane 2) and M3M1 (lane 3) on MASP-3-dependent pro-factor D
cleavage in comparison to a control reaction containing only MASP-3 and pro-factor D
(no mAb, lane 1), as well as a control reaction containing a mAb obtained from the
DTLacO library that binds MASP-1, but not MASP-3 (lane 4), as described in Example
18;
        FIGURE 41 graphically illustrates the level of AP-driven C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum samples
obtained from MASP-3-deficient (3MC), C4-deficient and MBL-deficient subjects,
demonstrating that MASP-3-deficient sera from Patient 2 and Patient 3 have residual AP
activity at high serum concentrations (25%, 12.5%, 6.25% serum concentrations), but a
                                            -17-

significantly higher APo (i.e., 8.2% and 12.3% of serum needed to achieve 50% of
maximum C3 deposition), as described in Example 19;
        FIGURE 42 graphically illustrates the level of AP-driven C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates under "traditional" AP-specific conditions (i.e.,
BBS/EGTA/Mg** without Ca++) as a function of time in 10% human serum samples
obtained from MASP-3 deficient, C4-deficient and MBL-deficient human subjects, as
described in Example 19;
        FIGURE 43 graphically illustrates the percent hemolysis (as measured by
hemoglobin release of lysed rabbit erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by
photometry) of mannan-coated rabbit erythrocytes over a range of serum concentrations
in serum from two normal human subjects (NHS) and from two 3MC patients (Patient 2
and Patient 3), measured in the absence of Ca++, demonstrating that MASP-3 deficiency
reduces the percentage of complement-mediated lysis of mannan-coated erythrocytes as
compared to normal human serum, as described in Example 19;
        FIGURE 44 graphically illustrates the level of AP-driven C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates as a function of the concentration of recombinant full
length MASP-3 protein added to serum samples obtained from human 3MC Patient 2
(MASP-3-/-), demonstrating that, compared to the negative control inactive recombinant
MASP-3 (MASP-3A; S679A), active recombinant MASP-3 protein reconstitutes AP
driven C3b deposition on zymosan-coated plates in a concentration-dependent manner, as
described in Example 19;
        FIGURE 45 graphically illustrates the percent hemolysis (as measured by
hemoglobin release of lysed rabbit erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by
photometry) of mannan-coated rabbit erythrocytes over a range of serum concentrations
in (1) normal human serum (NHS); (2) 3MC patient serum; (3) 3MC patient serum plus
active full length recombinant MASP-3 (20 tg/ml); and (4) heat-inactivated human
serum (HIS), measured in the absence of Ca++, demonstrating that the percent lysis of
rabbit erythrocytes is significantly increased in 3MC serum containing rMASP-3 as
compared to the percent lysis in 3MC serum without recombinant MASP-3 (p=0.0006),
as described in Example 19;
        FIGURE 46 graphically illustrates the percentage of rabbit erythrocyte lysis in 7%
human serum from 3MC Patient 2 and from 3MC Patient 3 containing active recombinant
MASP-3 at a concentration range of 0 to 110 pg/ml (in BBS/ Mg"/EGTA, demonstrating
                                           -18-

that the percentage of rabbit erythrocyte lysis increases with the amount of recombinant
MASP-3 in a concentration-dependent manner, as described in Example 19; and
        FIGURE 47 graphically illustrates the level of LEA-2-driven C3b deposition on
Mannan-coated ELISA plates as a function of the concentration of human serum diluted
in BBS buffer, for serum from a normal human subject (NHS), from two 3MC patients
(Patient 2 and Patient 3), from the parents of Patient 3 and from a MBL-deficient subject.
                        DESCRIPTION OF SEQUENCE LISTING
SEQ ID NO:1 human MAp19 cDNA
SEQ ID NO:2 human MAp 19 protein (with leader)
SEQ ID NO:3 human MAp 19 protein (mature)
SEQ ID NO:4 human MASP-2 cDNA
SEQ ID NO:5 human MASP-2 protein (with leader)
SEQ ID NO:6 human MASP-2 protein (mature)
SEQ ID NO:7 human MASP-3 cDNA
SEQ ID NO:8 human MASP-3 protein (w/leader)
SEQ ID NO:9 human MASP-1 cDNA
SEQ ID NO:10 human MASP- 1 protein (w/leader)
SEQ ID NO:11 human MAp44 protein (w/leader)
SEQ ID NO:12 rat MASP-2 cDNA
SEQ ID NO:13 rat MASP-2 protein (with leader)
SEQ ID NO:14 DNA encoding 17D20_dc35VH21N11VL (OMS646) heavy chain
variable region (VH) (without signal peptide)
SEQ ID NO:15 17D20_dc35VH21N11VL (OMS646) heavy chain variable region (VH)
polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:16 17N16mc heavy chain variable region (VH) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:17 17D20_dc21N1IVL (OMS644) light chain variable region (VL)
polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:18 DNA encoding 17N16_dcl7N9 (OMS641) light chain variable region
(VL) (without signal peptide)
SEQ ID NO:19 17N16_dc17N9 (OMS641) light chain variable region (VL) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:20: scFv daughter clone 17N16m_d17N9 full length polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:21: scFv daughter clone 17D20m_d3521N 11 full length polypeptide
                                            -19-

SEQ ID NO:22: scFv daughter clone 17N16m_d17N9 DNA encoding full length
polypeptide (without signal peptide)
SEQ ID NO:23: scFv daughter clone 17D2Om_d3521N1 1 DNA encoding full length
polypeptide (without signal peptide)
SEQ ID NO:24: parent DTLacO heavy chain variable region (VH) polypeptideSEQ ID
NO:25: MASP-3 specific clone M3J5 heavy chain variable region (VH) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:26: MASP-3 specific clone M3Ml heavy chain variable region (VH)
polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:27: parent DTLacO light chain variable region (VL) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:28: MASP-3 specific clone M3J5 light chain variable region (VL)
polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:29: MASP-3 specific clone M3Ml light chain variable region (VL)
polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:30: MASP-3 clone D14 heavy chain variable region (VH) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:3 1: MASP-3 clone D14 light chain variable region (VL) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:32: MASP-1 clone lE1O heavy chain variable region (VH) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:33: MASP-1 clone lElO light chain variable region (VL) polypeptide
SEQ ID NO:34 SGMI-1 peptide
SEQ ID NO:35 SGMI-2 peptide
SEQ ID NO:36 human IgG1-Fc polypeptide;
SEQ ID NO:37 peptide linker #1 (12aa);
SEQ ID NO:38: peptide linker #2 (10aa);
SEQ ID NO:39: nucleic acid encoding polypeptide fusion comprising the human IL-2
signal sequence, SGMI-I, linker#1, and human IgG1-Fc;
SEQ ID NO:40: mature polypeptide fusion comprising SGMI-I, linker#1 and human
IgGl-Fc (SGMI-lFc);
SEQ ID NO:41: nucleic acid encoding polypeptide fusion comprising the human IL-2
signal sequence, SGMI-2, linker#1 and human IgG1-Fc;
SEQ ID NO:42: mature polypeptide fusion comprising SGMI-2, linker#1 and human
IgG1-Fc (SGMI-2Fc).
                                         -20-

                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        1.      DEFINITIONS
        Unless specifically defined herein, all terms used herein have the same meaning
as would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art of the present invention. The
following definitions are provided in order to provide clarity with respect to the terms as
they are used in the specification and claims to describe the present invention.
        As used herein, the lectin pathway effector arm I ("LEA-]") refers to lectin
dependent activation of factor B and factor D by MASP-3.
        As used herein, the lectin pathway effector arm 2 ("LEA-2") refers to MASP-2
dependent complement activation.
        As used herein, the term "MASP-3-dependent complement activation" comprises
two components: (i) lectin MASP-3-dependent activation of factor B and factor D,
encompassed in LEA-1-mediated complement activation, occurs in the presence of Ca7,
commonly leading to the conversion of C3bB to C3bBb and of pro-factor D to factor D;
and (ii) lectin-independent conversion of factor B and factor D, which can occur in the
absence of Ca+*, commonly leading to the conversion of C3bB to C3bBb and of pro
factor D to factor D.    LEA-1-mediated complement activation and lectin-independent
conversion of factor B and factor D have been determined to cause opsonization and/or
lysis. While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that only
when multiple C3b molecules associate and bind in close proximity, the C3bBb C3
convertase changes its substrate specificity and cleaves C5 as the alternative pathway C5
convertase termed C3bBb(C3b)n.
        As used herein, the term "MASP-2-dependent complement activation", also
referred to herein as LEA-2-mediated complement activation, comprises MASP-2 lectin
dependent activation, which occurs in the presence of Ca7*, leading to the formation of
the lectin pathway C3 convertase C4b2a and upon accumulation of the C3 cleavage
product C3b subsequently to the C5 convertase C4b2a(C3b)n, which has been determined
to cause opsonization and/or lysis.
        As used herein, the term "traditional understanding of the alternative pathway"
also referred to as the "traditional alternative pathway" refers to the alternative pathway
                                              -21-

prior to the instant discovery described herein, i.e., complement activation that is
triggered, for example, by zymosan from fungal and yeast cell walls, lipopolysaccharide
(LPS) from Gram negative outer membranes, and rabbit erythrocytes, as well as from
many pure polysaccharides, viruses, bacteria, animal tumor cells, parasites and damaged
cells, and which has traditionally been thought to arise from spontaneous proteolytic
generation of C3b from complement factor C3.           As used herein, activation of the
"traditional alternative pathway", also referred to herein as the "alternative pathway", is
measured in Mg"/EGTA buffer (i.e., in the absence of Ca ).
        As used herein, the term "lectin pathway" refers to complement activation that
occurs via the specific binding of serum and non-serum carbohydrate-binding proteins
including mannan-binding lectin (MBL), CL-Il and the ficolins (H-ficolin, M-ficolin, or
L-ficolin). As described herein, the inventors have discovered that the lectin pathway is
driven by the two effector arms, lectin pathway effector arm 1 (LEA-1), which is now
known to be MASP-3-dependent, and lectin pathway effector arm 2 (LEA-2), which is
MASP-2-dependent. As used herein, activation of the lectin pathways are assessed using
Ca_ containing buffers.
        As used herein, the term "classical pathway" refers to complement activation that
is triggered by antibody bound to a foreign particle and requires binding of the
recognition molecule Cl q.
        As used herein, the term "HTRA-1"          refers to the serine peptidase High
temperature requirement serine protease Al.
        As used herein, the term "MASP-3 inhibitory agent" refers to any agent that
directly or indirectly inhibits MASP-3-dependent complement activation, including
agents that bind to or directly interact with MASP-3, including MASP-3 antibodies and
MASP-3      binding fragments thereof, natural and synthetic peptides, competitive
substrates, small-molecules, expression inhibitors and isolated natural inhibitors, and also
encompasses peptides that compete with MASP-3 for binding to another recognition
molecule (e.g., MBL, CL-i 1, H-ficolin, M-ficolin, or L-ficolin) in the lectin pathway. In
one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is specific to MASP-3, and does not bind
to MASP-1 or MASP-2.          An inhibitory agent that directly inhibits MASP-3 can be
referred to as a direct MASP-3 inhibitory agent (e.g., a MASP-3 antibody), while an
inhibitory agent that indirectly inhibits MASP-3 can be referred to as an indirect MASP-3
inhibitory agent (e.g., a MASP-1 antibody that inhibits MASP-3 activation). An example
                                            -22-

of a direct MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 specific inhibitory agent, such as a
MASP-3 inhibitory agent that specifically binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8)
with a binding affinity of at least 10 times greater than to other components in the
complement system. In one embodiment, a MASP-3 inhibitory agent indirectly inhibits
MASP-3 activity, such as, for example, an inhibitor of MASP-3 activation, including an
inhibitor of MASP-1-mediated MASP-3 activation (e.g., a MASP-1 antibody or MASP-1
binding fragments thereof, natural and synthetic peptides, small-molecules, expression
inhibitors and isolated natural inhibitors, and also encompasses peptides that compete
with MASP-1 for binding to MASP-3).          In another embodiment, a MASP-3 inhibitory
agent inhibits MASP-3-mediated maturation of factor D.          In another embodiment, a
MASP-3 inhibitory agent inhibits MASP-3-mediated activation of factor B. MASP-3
inhibitory agents useful in the method of the invention may reduce MASP-3-dependent
complement activation by greater than 10%, such as greater than 20%, greater than 50%,
or greater than 90%. In one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent reduces MASP-3
dependent complement activation by greater than 90% (i.e., resulting in MASP-3
complement activation of only 10% or less). It is expected that MASP-3 inhibition will
block, in full or in part, both LEA-I-related lysis and opsonization and lectin-independent
conversion of factor B and factor D-related lysis and opsonization.
        As used herein, the term "MASP-1 inhibitory agent" refers to any agent that binds
to or directly interacts with MASP-1 and inhibits at least one of (i) MASP-3-dependent
complement activation and/or (ii) MASP-2-dependent complement activation and/or (iii)
lectin-independent or lectin-dependent MASP-1-mediated maturation of factor D,
wherein the lectin-dependent MASP-1 maturation of factor D involves direct activation
of factor D, including MASP-1 antibodies and MASP-1 binding fragments thereof,
natural and synthetic peptides, small-molecules, expression inhibitors and isolated natural
inhibitors, and also encompasses peptides that compete with MASP-1 for binding to
another recognition molecule (e.g., MBL, CL-11, H-ficolin, M-ficolin, or L-ficolin) in the
lectin pathway. In one embodiment, MASP-1 inhibitory agents useful in the method of
the invention reduce MASP-3-dependent complement activation by greater than 10%,
such as greater than 20%, greater than 50%, or greater than 90%. In one embodiment, the
MASP-1 inhibitory agent reduces MASP-3-dependent complement activation by greater
than 90% (i.e., resulting in MASP-3 complement activation of only 10% or less). In
another embodiment, MASP-1 inhibitory agents useful in the method of the invention
                                             -23-

reduce MASP-2-dependent complement activation by greater than 10%, such as greater
than 20%, greater than 50%, or greater than 90%. In one embodiment, the MASP-1
inhibitory agent reduces MASP-2-dependent complement activation by greater than 90%
(i.e., resulting in MASP-2 complement activation of only 10% or less).
          In another embodiment, MASP-1 inhibitory agents useful in the method of the
invention reduce both MASP-3-dependent complement activation (LEA-1), lectin
independent conversion of factor B and factor D, and MASP-2-dependent complement
activation (LEA-2) by greater than 10%, such as greater than 20%, greater than 50%, or
greater than    9 0%. In one embodiment, the MASP-1 inhibitory agent reduces MASP-3
dependent complement activation (LEA-1), lectin-independent conversion of factor B and
factor D, and MASP-2-dependent complement activation (LEA-2) by greater than 90%
(i.e., resulting in MASP-3 complement activation of only 10% or less and MASP-2
complement activation of only 10% or less).
          An example of a direct MASP- 1 inhibitory agent is a MASP-1-specific inhibitory
agent, such as a MASP- 1 inhibitory agent that specifically binds to a portion of MASP- 1
(SEQ ID NO:10) with a binding affinity of at least 10 times greater than to other
components in the complement system. In many instances, given that MASP-1 can
activate MASP-3, and given the MASP-1 can activate MASP-2, inhibition of MASP-1
would be expected to be effective in inhibiting MASP-3 and/or MASP-2.              In some
instances, however, inhibition of either MASP-1 or MASP-3 or MASP-2 may be a
preferred embodiment relative to inhibition of the other MASP targets. For example, in
the setting of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) infection, MASP-3 has been shown to be
activated and is responsible for S. aureus opsonization in the absence of MASP-1 (see
Iwaki D. et al., J Immunol 187(7):3751-8 (2011)).         Therefore, in the treatment of
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), for example, it might be advantageous to
directly inhibit MASP-1         rather than MASP-3,     thereby reducing the potential
susceptibility to S. aureus during LEA-I-inhibitory treatment of PNH.
          As used herein, the term "MASP-2 inhibitory agent" refers to any agent that binds
to or directly interacts with MASP-2 and inhibits at least one of (i) MASP-2-dependent
complement activation and/or (ii) MASP- 1-dependent complement activation, including
MASP-2 antibodies and MASP-2 binding fragments thereof, natural and synthetic
peptides, small-molecules, expression inhibitors and isolated natural inhibitors, and also
encompasses peptides that compete with MASP-2 for binding to another recognition
                                            -24-

molecule (e.g., MBL, CL-1 1, H-ficolin, M-ficolin, or L-ficolin) in the lectin pathway.
MASP-2 inhibitory agents useful in the method of the invention may reduce MASP-2
dependent complement activation by greater than 10%, such as greater than 20%, greater
than 50%, or greater than 90%.          In one embodiment, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent
reduces MASP-2-dependent complement activation by greater than 90% (i.e., resulting in
MASP-2 complement activation of only 10% or less). An example of a direct MASP-2
inhibitory agent is a MASP-2-specific inhibitory agent, such as a MASP-2 inhibitory
agent that specifically binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) with a binding
affinity of at least 10 times greater than to other components in the complement system.
        As used herein, the term "antibody" encompasses antibodies and antibody
fragments thereof, derived from any antibody-producing mammal (e.g., mouse, rat,
rabbit, and primate including human), or from a hybridoma, phage selection, recombinant
expression or transgenic animals (or other methods of producing antibodies or antibody
fragments"), that specifically bind to a target polypeptide, such as, for example, MASP-1,
MASP-2 or MASP-3 polypeptides or portions thereof. It is not intended that the term
"antibody" limited as regards to the source of the antibody or the manner in which it is
made (e.g., by hybridoma, phage selection, recombinant expression, transgenic animal,
peptide synthesis, etc). Exemplary antibodies include polyclonal, monoclonal and
recombinant antibodies; pan-specific, multispecific antibodies (e.g., bispecific antibodies,
trispecific    antibodies);    humanized      antibodies; murine     antibodies;   chimeric,
mouse-human, mouse-primate, primate-human monoclonal antibodies; and anti-idiotype
antibodies, and may be any intact antibody or fragment thereof. As used herein, the term
"antibody" encompasses not only intact polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies, but also
fragments thereof (such as dAb, Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, Fv), single chain (ScFv), synthetic
variants thereof, naturally occurring variants, fusion proteins comprising an antibody
portion with an antigen-binding fragment of the required specificity, humanized
antibodies,    chimeric    antibodies,   and any other modified configuration        of the
immunoglobulin molecule that comprises an antigen-binding site or fragment (epitope
recognition site) of the required specificity.
        A "monoclonal antibody" refers to a homogeneous antibody population wherein
the monoclonal antibody is comprised of amino acids (naturally occurring and non
naturally occurring) that are involved in the selective binding of an epitope. Monoclonal
antibodies are highly specific for the target antigen. The term "monoclonal antibody"
                                               -25-

encompasses     not only intact monoclonal        antibodies   and full-length    monoclonal
antibodies, but also fragments thereof (such as Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, Fv), single chain
(ScFv),   variants thereof, fusion     proteins comprising     an antigen-binding     portion,
humanized monoclonal antibodies, chimeric monoclonal antibodies, and any other
modified configuration of the iminunoglobulin molecule that comprises an antigen
binding fragment (epitope recognition site) of the required specificity and the ability to
bind to an epitope. It is not intended to be limited as regards the source of the antibody or
the manner in which it is made (e.g., by hybridoma, phage selection, recombinant
expression, transgenic animals, etc.). The term includes whole immunoglobulins as well
as the fragments etc. described above under the definition of "antibody".
        As used herein, the term "antibody fragment" refers to a portion derived from or
related to a full-length antibody, such as, for example, a MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3
antibody, generally including the antigen binding or variable region thereof. Illustrative
examples of antibody fragments include Fab, Fab', F(ab) 2 , F(ab') 2 and Fv fragments,
scFv fragments, diabodies, linear antibodies, single-chain antibody molecules and
multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
        As used herein, a "single-chain Fv" or "scFv" antibody fragment comprises the
VH and VL domains of an antibody, wherein these domains are present in a single
polypeptide chain. Generally, the Fv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker
between the VH and VL domains, which enables the scFv to form the desired structure
for antigen binding.
        As used herein, a "chimeric antibody" is a recombinant protein that contains the
variable domains and complementarity-determining regions derived from a non-human
species (e.g., rodent) antibody, while the remainder of the antibody molecule is derived
from a human antibody.
        As used herein, a "humanized antibody" is a chimeric antibody that comprises a
minimal sequence that conforms to specific complementarity-determining regions derived
from non-human immunoglobulin that is transplanted into a human antibody framework.
Humanized antibodies are typically recombinant proteins in which only the antibody
complementarity-determining regions are of non-human origin (including antibodies
generated from phage display or yeast).
        As used herein, the term "mannan-binding lectin" ("MBL") is equivalent to
mannan-binding protein ("MBP").
                                             -26-

         As used herein, the "membrane attack complex" ("MAC") refers to a complex of
the terminal five complement components (C5b combined with C6, C7, C8 and C9) that
inserts into and disrupts membranes (also referred to as C5b-9).
         As used herein, "a subject" includes all mammals, including without limitation
humans, non-human primates, dogs, cats, horses, sheep, goats, cows, rabbits, pigs and
rodents.
         As used herein, the amino acid residues are abbreviated as follows:          alanine
(Ala;A), asparagine (Asn;N), aspartic acid (Asp;D), arginine (Arg;R), cysteine (Cys;C),
glutamic acid (Glu;E), glutamine (Gln;Q), glycine (Gly;G), histidine (His;H), isoleucine
(Ile;I), leucine (Leu;L), lysine (Lys;K), methionine (Met;M), phenylalanine (Phe;F),
proline (Pro;P), serine (Ser;S), threonine (Thr;T), tryptophan (Trp;W), tyrosine (Tyr;Y),
and valine (Val;V).
         In the broadest sense, the naturally occurring amino acids can be divided into
groups based upon the chemical characteristic of the side chain of the respective amino
acids. By "hydrophobic" amino acid is meant either Ile, Leu, Met, Phe, Trp, Tyr, Val,
Ala, Cys or Pro. By "hydrophilic" amino acid is meant either Gly, Asn, Gln, Ser, Thr,
Asp, Glu, Lys, Arg or His. This grouping of amino acids can be further subclassed as
follows. By "uncharged hydrophilic" amino acid is meant either Ser, Thr, Asn or Gln.
By "acidic" amino acid is meant either Glu or Asp. By "basic" amino acid is meant either
Lys, Arg or His.
         As used herein the term "conservative amino acid substitution" is illustrated by a
substitution among amino acids within each of the following groups: (1) glycine, alanine,
valine, leucine, and isoleucine, (2) phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, (3) serine and
threonine, (4) aspartate and glutamate, (5) glutamine and asparagine, and (6) lysine,
arginine and histidine.
         The term "oligonucleotide" as used herein refers to an oligomer or polymer of
ribonucleic acid (RNA) or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or mimetics thereof. This term
also covers those oligonucleobases composed of naturally-occurring nucleotides, sugars
and covalent internucleoside (backbone) linkages as well as oligonuclcotides having
non-naturally-occurring modifications.
         As used herein, an "epitope" refers to the site on a protein (e.g., a human MASP-3
protein) that is bound by an antibody. "Overlapping epitopes" include at least one (e.g.,
                                             -27-

two, three, four, five, or six) common amino acid residue(s), including linear and non
linear epitopes.
        As used herein, the terms "polypeptide," "peptide," and "protein" are used
interchangeably and mean any peptide-linked chain of amino acids, regardless of length
or post-translational modification. The MASP proteins (MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3)
described herein can contain or be wild-type proteins or can be variants that have not
more than 50 (e.g., not more than one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
12, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, or 50) conservative amino acid substitutions. Conservative
substitutions typically include substitutions within the following groups: glycine and
alanine; valine, isoleucine, and leucine; aspartic acid and glutamic acid; asparagine,
glutamine, serine and threonine; lysine, histidine and arginine; and phenylalanine and
tyrosine.
        The human MASP-1 protein (set forth as SEQ ID NO:10), human MASP-2
protein (set forth as SEQ ID NO:5) and human MASP-3 protein (set forth as SEQ ID
NO:8) described herein also include "peptide fragments" of the proteins, which are
shorter than full-length and/or immature (pre-pro) MASP proteins, including peptide
fragments of a MASP protein include terminal as well internal deletion variants of the
protein. Deletion variants can lack one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 amino acid segments (of two or more amino
acids) or noncontiguous single amino acids. In some embodiments, the human MASP-1
protein can have an amino acid sequence that is, or is greater than, 70 (e.g., 71, 72, 73,
74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97,
98, 99, or 100) % identical to the human MASP-1 protein having the amino acid
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 10.
        In some embodiments, the human MASP-3 protein can have an amino acid
sequence that is, or is greater than, 70 (e.g., 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82,
83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, or 100) % identical to the
human MASP-3 protein having the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 8.
        In some embodiments, the human MASP-2 protein can have an amino acid
sequence that is, or is greater than, 70 (e.g., 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82,
83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, or 100) % identical to the
human MASP-2 protein having the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5.
                                              -28-

         In some embodiments, peptide fragments can be at least 6 (e.g., at least 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,
35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,55,60,65,70,75,80,85,90,
95, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500,
or 600 or more) amino acid residues in length (e.g., at least 6 contiguous amino acid
residues in any one of SEQ ID NOS: 5, 8 or 10). In some embodiments, an antigenic
peptide fragment of a human MASP protein is fewer than 500 (e.g., fewer than 450, 400,
350,325,300,275,250,225,200, 190, 180, 170, 160, 150, 140, 130, 120, 110, 100, 95,
90, 85,80,75,70,65,60, 55, 50,49,48,47,46,45,44,43,42,41,40,39,38,37,36,35,
34,33,32,31,30,29,28,27,26,25,24,23,22,21,20,19,                 18, 17,16, 15,14,13, 12,11,
10, 9, 8, 7, or 6) amino acid residues in length (e.g., fewer than 500 contiguous amino
acid residues in any one of SEQ ID NOS: 5, 8 or 10).
         In some embodiments, in the context of generating an antibody that binds MASP
1, MASP-2 and/or MASP-3, the peptide fragments are antigenic and retain at least 10%
(e.g., at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 2 0%, at least 2
                                                             5%, at least 3
                                                                            0%, at least 35%, at
least 40%, at least 50%, at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least
90%, at least 95%, at least 98%, at least 99%, at least 99.5%, or 100% or more) of the
ability of the full-length protein to induce an antigenic response in a mammal (see below
under "Methods for Producing an Antibody").
         Percent (%) amino acid sequence identity is defined as the percentage of amino
acids in a candidate sequence that are identical to the amino acids in a reference
sequence, after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the
maximum percent sequence identity. Alignment for purposes of determining percent
sequence identity can be achieved in various ways that are within the skill in the art, for
instance, using publicly available computer software such as BLAST, BLAST-2, ALIGN,
ALIGN-2 or Megalign (DNASTAR) software. Appropriate parameters for measuring
alignment, including any algorithms needed to achieve maximal alignment over the full
length of the sequences being compared can be determined by known methods.
         In representative embodiments, the human MASP-1 protein (SEQ ID NO:10) is
encoded by the cDNA sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO:9; the human MASP-2 protein
(SEQ ID NO:5) is encoded by the cDNA sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO:4; and the
human MASP-3 protein (SEQ ID NO:8) is encoded by the cDNA sequence set forth as
SEQ ID NO:7. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the cDNA sequences disclosed
                                               -29-

in SEQ ID NO:9, SEQ ID NO:4 and SEQ ID NO:7 represent a single allele of human
MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3, respectively, and that allelic variation and alternative
splicing are expected to occur.    Allelic variants of the nucleotide sequences shown in
SEQ ID NO:9, SEQ ID NO:4 and SEQ ID NO:7, including those containing silent
mutations and those in which mutations result in amino acid sequence changes, are within
the scope of the present invention. Allelic variants of the MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3
sequence can be cloned by probing cDNA or genomic libraries from different individuals
according to standard procedures, or may be identified by homology comparison search
(e.g., BLAST searching) of databases containing such information.
        II.    THE LECTIN PATHWAY: A NEW UNDERSTANDING
        i.     Overview: the Lectin pathway has been redefined
        As described herein, the inventors have made the surprising discovery that the
lectin pathway of complement has two effector arms to activate complement, both driven
by lectin pathway activation complexes formed of carbohydrate recognition components
(MBL, CL-Il and ficolins): i) the effector arm formed by the lectin pathway-associated
serine proteases MASP-1 and MASP-3, referred to herein as "lectin pathway effector arm
1" or "LEA-1"; and (ii) the MASP-2 driven activation effector arm, referred to herein as
"lectin pathway effector arm 2", or "LEA-2". Both LEA-i and LEA-2 can effect lysis
and/or opsonization.
        It has also been determined that lectin-independent conversion of factor B by
MASP-3 and lectin-independent conversion of factor D by HTRA-1, MASP-1 and
MASP-3, which both can occur in the absence of Ca7*, commonly lead to the conversion
of C3bB to C3bBb and of pro-factor D to factor D. Therefore, inhibiting MASP-3 can
inhibit both LEA-i and the lectin-independent activation of factor B and/or factor D,
which can result in the inhibition of lysis and/or opsonization.
        FIGURE 1 illustrates this new understanding of the pathways of complement
activation. As shown in FIGURE 1, LEA-i is driven by lectin-bound MASP-3, which
can activate the zymogen of factor D to its active form and/or cleave the C3b- or
C3b(H 20)-bound factor B, leading to conversion of the C3bB zymogen complex into its
enzymatically active form C3bBb. Activated factor D, generated by MASP-3, can also
convert the C3bB or C3b(H 20) zymogen complexes into their enzymatically active form.
                                             -30-

MASP-1 is capable of rapid self-activation, whereas MASP-3 is not. In many cases,
MASP-1 is the activator of MASP-3.
        While in many examples lectins (i.e., MBL, CL-I I or ficolins) can direct activity
to cellular surfaces, FIGURE 1 also outlines the lectin-independent functions of MASP
3, MASP-1, and HTRA-1 in factor B activation and/or factor D maturation. As with the
lectin-associated form of MASP-3 in LEA-1, the lectin-independent form of MASP-3 is
capable of mediating conversion of C3bB or C3b(H 20) to C3bBb (see also FIGURES 36
and 37) and pro-factor D to factor D (see FIGURE 39). MASP-1 (see also FIGURE 39)
and the non-MASP-related protein HTRA-1 can also activate factor D (Stanton et al.,
Evidence That the HTRA 1 Interactome Influences Susceptibility to Age-Related Macular
Degeneration, presented at The Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology
2011 conference on May 4, 2011) in a manner in which no lectin component is required.
        Thus, MASP-1 (via LEA-1 and lectin-independent forms), MASP-3 (via LEA-1
and lectin-independent forms), and HTRA-1 (lectin-independent only) are capable of
either direct or indirect activation at one or more points along a MASP-3 - factor D
factor B axis. In doing so, they generate C3bBb, the C3 convertase of the alternative
pathway, and they stimulate the production and deposition of C3b on microbial surfaces.
C3b deposition plays a critical role in opsonization, labeling the surfaces of microbes for
destruction by host phagocytic cells, such as macrophages.          As an example herein
(FIGURE 35), MASP-3 is critical for opsonization of S. aureus. C3b deposition occurs
rapidly on S. aureus exposed to human serum in a MASP-3-dependent fashion (FIGURE
35).
        The contributions of LEA-1 and the lectin-independent functions of MASP-3,
MASP-1, or HTRA-1 are not limited to opsonization, however.             As diagrammed in
FIGURE 1, these three components can also cause cell lysis by indirect or direct
activation of factor B, and the production of C3b. These components form complexes
that generate the alternative pathway C5 convertase, C3bBb(C3b),. As described further
herein, the requirement for MASP-3 and MBL, but not MASP-2 (and, therefore, not
LEA-2 in this example), in the lysis of N. nieningitidis (see FIGURES 13, 14 and 15)
demonstrates a role for LEA-1 in lysis. In summary, the opsonization results obtained
from the S. aureus studies and the lysis results observed in the N. meningitidis studies
support the role of LEA-I         in both processes (as diagrammed in FIGURE 1).
Furthermore, these studies demonstrate that both opsonization and lysis can result from
                                            -31-

the conversion of C3bB or C3b(H 20) and/or of pro-factor D to factor D; therefore, both
processes can be outcomes of the lectin-independent roles of MASP-3, MASP-1, or
HTRA-1. Thus, the model developed by the inventors in FIGURE 1 supports the use of
inhibitors of principally MASP-3,        but also MASP-1      and/or HTRA-1,      to block
opsonization and/or lysis and to treat pathologies caused by dysregulation of these
processes.
         1. Lectin Pathway Effector Arm (LEA-1)
    The first effector arm of the lectin pathway, LEA-1, is formed by the lectin pathway
associated serine proteases MASP-1 and MASP-3.          As described herein, the inventors
have now shown that, in the absence of MASP-3 and in the presence of MASP-1, the
alternative pathway is not effectively activated on surface structures.      These results
demonstrate that MASP-3 plays a previously undisclosed role in initiating the alternative
pathway, and this is confirmed using the MASP-3-deficient 3MC serum obtained from
patients with the rare 3MC autosomal recessive disorder (Rooryck C, et al., Nat Genet.
43(3):197-203 (2011)) with mutations that render the serine protease domain of MASP-3
dysfunctional. Based on these novel findings, it is expected that complement activation
involving the alternative pathway, as conventionally defined, is MASP-3-dependent. In
fact, MASP-3, and its activation of LEA-1, may represent the hitherto elusive initiator of
the alternative pathway.
    As further described in Examples 1-4 herein, in MASP-2-deficient sera, the inventors
observed a higher activity of lectin-dependent alternative pathway activation resulting in
a higher bactericidal activity (i.e., lytic activity) against N. meningitidis. While not
wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that in absence of MASP-2,
MASP-1-bearing carbohydrate recognition complexes are more likely to bind close to
MASP-3-bearing carbohydrate recognition complexes to activate MASP-3.          It is known
that, in many instances, activation of MASP-3 is dependent on MASP-1 activity, as
MASP-3 is not an auto-activating enzyme and very often requires the activity of MASP- 1
to be converted from its zymogen form into its enzymatically active form. MASP-1 (like
MASP-2) is an auto-activating enzyme, while MASP-3 does not auto-activate and, in
many instances, needs the enzymatic activity of MASP-1 to be converted into its
enzymatically active form. See, Zundel S, et al., Jimmunol., 172(7):4342-50 (2004). In
absence of MASP-2, all lectin pathway recognition complexes are either loaded with
MASP-1 or MASP-3.          Therefore, the absence of MASP-2 facilitates the MASP-1
                                             -32-

mediated conversion of MASP-3 into its enzymatically active form. Once MASP-3 is
activated, activated MASP-3 initiates alternative pathway activation, now referred to as
"LEA-i" activation, through a MASP-3-mediated conversion of C3bB to C3bBb and/or
conversion of pro-factor D to factor D.       C3bBb, also referred to as the alternative
pathway C3 convertase, cleaves additional C3 molecules yielding deposition of opsonic
C3b molecules.      If several C3b fragments bind in close proximity to the C3bBb
convertase complex, this results in the fornation of the alternative pathway C5
convertase C3bBb(C3b)n, which promotes formation of MAC.               Additionally, C3b
molecules deposited on the surface form new sites for factor B binding, which can now
be cleaved by factor D and/or MASP-3 to form additional sites where alternative pathway
C3 and C5 convertase complexes can be formed.           This latter process is needed for
effective lysis and does not require lectins once the initial C3b deposition has occurred.
A recent publication (Iwaki D. et al., J Immunol 187(7):3751-8 (2011)) as well as data
generated from the inventors (FIGURE 37) demonstrate that the alternative pathway C3
convertase zymogen complex C3bB is converted into its enzymatically active form by
activated MASP-3.      The inventors now have discovered that the MASP-3-mediated
cleavage of factor B represents a subcomponent of the newly described LEA-1, which
promotes lectin-dependent formation of the alternative pathway C3 convertase C3bBb.
        2. Lectin Pathway Effector Arm (LEA-2)
    The second effector arm of the lectin pathway, LEA-2, is formed by the lectin
pathway-associated serine protease MASP-2. MASP-2 is activated upon binding of the
recognition components to their respective pattern, and may also be activated by MASP
1, and subsequently cleaves the complement component C4 into C4a and C4b. After the
binding of the cleavage product C4b to plasma C2, C4b-bound C2 becomes substrate of a
second MASP-2-mediated cleavage step which converts C4b-bound C2 into the
enzymatically active complex C4bC2a and a small C2b cleavage fragment. C4b2a is the
C3-converting C3 convertase of the lectin pathway, converting the abundant plasma
component C3 into C3a and C3b. C3b binds to any surface in close proximity via a
thioester bond. If several C3b fragments bind in close proximity to the C3 convertase
complex C4b2a, this convertase alters its specificity to convert C5 into C5b and C5a,
forming the C5 convertase complex C4b2a(C3b)n. While this C5 convertase can initiate
formation of MAC, this process is thought to be insufficiently effective to promote lysis
on its own. Rather, the initial C3b opsonins produced by LEA-2 form the nucleus for the
                                            -33-

formation of new alternative pathway C3 convertase and C5 convertase sites, which
ultimately lead to abundant MAC formation and lysis. This latter event is mediated by
factor D activation of factor B associated with LEA-2-formed C3b, and hence is
dependent on LEA-i by virtue of the essential role for MASP-1 in the maturation of
factor D. There is also a MASP-2-dependent C4-bypass activation route to activate C3 in
the absence of C4, which plays an important role in the pathophysiology of ischemia
reperfusion injury, since C4-deficient mice are not protected from ischemia-reperfusion
injury while MASP-2-deficient mice are (Schwaeble et al., PNAS, 2011 supra). LEA-2 is
also tied to the coagulation pathway, involving the cleavage of prothrombin to thrombin
(common pathway) and also the cleavage of factor XII (Hageman factor) to convert into
its enzymatically active form XIIa. Factor XIIa in turn cleaves factor XI to XIa (intrinsic
pathway).     The intrinsic pathway activation of the clotting cascade leads to fibrin
formation, which is of critical importance for thrombus formation.
         FIGURE 1 illustrates the new understanding of the lectin pathway and alternative
pathway based on the results provided herein. FIGURE 1 delineates the role of LEA-2
in both opsonization and lysis. While MASP-2 is the initiator of "downstream" C3b
deposition    (and   resultant    opsonization)   in   multiple   lectin-dependent   settings
physiologically (FIGURES 20A, 20B, 20C), it also plays a role in lysis of serum
sensitive bacteria.   As illustrated in FIGURE 1, the proposed molecular mechanism
responsible for the increased bactericidal activity of MASP-2-deficient or MASP-2
depleted serum/plasma for serum-sensitive pathogens such as N. meningitidis is that, for
the lysis of bacteria, lectin pathway recognition complexes associated with MASP-1 and
MASP-3 have to bind in close proximity to each other on the bacterial surface, thereby
allowing MASP-1 to cleave MASP-3. In contrast to MASP-1 and MASP-2, MASP-3 is
not an auto-activating enzyme, but, in many instances, requires activation/cleavage by
MASP-1 to be converted into its enzymatically active form.
         As further shown in FIGURE 1, activated MASP-3 can then cleave C3b-bound
factor B on the pathogen surface to initiate the alternative activation cascade by formation
of the enzymatically active alternative pathway C3 and C5 convertases C3bBb and
C3bBb(C3b)n, respectively. MASP-2-bearing lectin-pathway activation complexes have
no part in the activation of MASP-3 and, in the absence of or after depletion of MASP-2,
all-lectin pathway activation complexes will either be loaded with MASP-1 or MASP-3.
Therefore, in the absence of MASP-2, the likelihood is markedly increased that on the
                                             -34-

microbial surface MASP-1- and MASP-3-bearing lectin-pathway activation complexes
will come to sit in close proximity to each other, leading to more MASP-3 being activated
and thereby leading to a higher rate of MASP-3-mediated cleavage of C3b-bound factor
B to form the alternative pathway C3 and C5 convertases C3bBb and C3bBb(C3b)n on
the microbial surface. This leads to the activation of the terminal activation cascades
C5b-C9 that forms the Membrane Attack Complex, composed of surface-bound C5b
associated with C6, C5bC6 associated with C7, C5bC6C7 associated with C8, and
C5bC6C7C8, leading to the polymerization of C9 that inserts into the bacterial surface
structure and forms a pore in the bacterial wall, which will lead to osmolytic killing of the
complement-targeted bacterium.
         The core of this novel concept is that the data provided herein clearly show that
the lectin pathway activation complexes drive the following two distinct activation routes,
as illustrated in FIGURE 1:
         i) LEA-1: A MASP-3-dependent activation route that initiates and drives
activation of complement by generating the alternative pathway convertase C3bBb
through initial cleavage and activation of factor B on activator surfaces, which will then
catalyze C3b deposition and formation of the alternative pathway convertase C3bBb.
The MASP-3-driven activation route plays an essential role in the opsonization and lysis
of microbes and drives the alternative pathway on the surface of bacteria, leading to
optimal rates of activation to generate membrane attack complexes; and
         ii) LEA-2: A MASP-2-dependent activation route leading to the formation of the
lectin pathway C3 convertase C4b2a and, upon accumulation of the C3 cleavage product
C3b, subsequently to the C5 convertase C4b2a(C3b)n. In the absence of complement C4,
MASP-2 can form an alternative C3 convertase complex which involves C2 and clotting
factor XI.
         In addition to its role in lysis, the MASP-2-driven activation route plays an
important role in bacterial opsonization leading to microbes being coated with covalently
bound C3b and cleavage products thereof (i.e., iC3b and C3dg), which will be targeted
for the uptake and killing by C3 receptor-bearing phagocytes, such as granulocytes,
macrophages, monocytes, microglia cells and the reticuloendothelial system. This is the
most effective route of clearance of bacteria and microorganisms that are resistant to
complement lysis. These include most of the gram-positive bacteria.
                                            -35-

        In addition to LEA-I and LEA-2, there is the potential for lectin-independent
activation of factor D by MASP-3, MASP-1 and/or HTRA-1, and there is also the
potential for lectin-independent activation of factor B by MASP-3.
        While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that each of
(i) LEA-1, (ii) LEA-2 and (iii) lectin-independent activation of factor B and/or factor D
lead to opsonization and/or the formation of MAC with resultant lysis.
        ii.     Background of MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3
        Three mannan-binding lectin-associated serine proteases (MASP-1, MASP-2 and
MASP-3) are presently known to be associated in human serum with the mannan-binding
lectin (MBL).       Mannan-binding lectin is also called 'mannose-binding protein' or
'mannose-binding lectin' in the recent literature. The MBL-MASP complex plays an
important role in innate immunity by virtue of the binding of MBL to carbohydrate
structures present on a wide variety of microorganisms. The interaction of MBL with
specific arrays of carbohydrate structures brings about the activation of the MASP
proenzymes which, in turn, activate complement by cleaving the complement components
C4 and C2 to form the C3 convertase C4b2b (Kawasaki et al., J. Biochem 106:483-489
(1989); Matsushita & Fujita, J. Exp led. 176:1497-1502 (1992); Ji et al., J. Immunol
150:571-578 (1993)).
        The MBL-MASP proenzyme complex was, until recently, considered to contain
only one type of protease (MASP-1), but it is now clear that there are two other distinct
proteases (i.e., MASP-2 and MASP-3) associated with MBL (Thiel et al., Nature
386:506-510 (1997); Dahl et al., Immunity 15:127-135 (2001)), as well as an additional
serum protein of 19 kDa, referred to as "MAp19" or "sMAP" (Stover et al., J. Immunol
162:3481-3490 (1999); Stover et al., J. Immunol 163:6848-6859 (1999); Takahashi et al.,
Int. Immunol 11:859-63 (1999)).
MAp19 is an alternatively spliced gene product of the structural gene for MASP-2 and
lacks the four C-terminal domains of MASP-2, including the serine endopeptidase
domain.     The abundantly expressed truncated mRNA transcript encoding MAp19 is
generated by an alternative splicing/polyadenylation event of the MASP-2 gene. By a
similar mechanism, the MASP-1/3 gene gives rise to three major gene products, the two
serne proteases MASP-1 and MASP-3 and a truncated gene product of 44 kDa referred
to as "MAp44" (Degn et al., .J. Immunol 183(11):7371-8 (2009); Skjoedt et al., .J Biol
Chem 285:8234-43 (2010)).
                                            -36-

         MASP-1 was first described as the P-100 protease component of the serum Ra
reactive factor, which is now recognized as being a complex composed of MBL plus
MASP (Matsushita et al., Collectins and Innate Immunity, (1996); Ji et al., J Immunol
150:571-578 (1993). The ability of an MBL-associated endopeptidase within the MBL
MASPs complex to act on the complement components C4 and C2 in a manner
apparently identical to that of the Cis enzyme within the Clq-(Clr) 2 -(Cls)   2 complex of
the classical pathway of complement suggests that there is a MBL-MASPs complex
which is functionally analogous to the Clq-(Clr) 2 -(Cs)     2 complex.   The Clq-(Clr) 2
(C IS)2 complex is activated by the interaction of C Iq with the Fc regions of antibody IgG
or IgM present in immune complexes. This brings about the autoactivation of the CIr
proenzyme which, in turn, activates the Cls proenzyme which then acts on complement
components C4 and C2.
         The stoichiometry of the MBL-MASPs complex differs from the one found for the
Clq-(Clr)2 -(Cls)    2  complex in that different MBL oligomers appear to associate with
different proportions of MASP-1/MAp19 or MASP-2/MASP-3 (Dahl et al., Immunity
15:127-135 (2001).        The majority of MASPs and MAp19 found in serum are not
complexed with MBL (Thiel et al., Jmmunol 165:878-887 (2000)) and may associate in
part with ficolins, a recently described group of lectins having a fibrinogen-like domain
able to bind to N-acetylglucosamine residues on microbial surfaces (Le et al., FEBS Lett
425:367 (1998); Sugimoto et al., J. Biol Chem 273:20721 (1998)). Among these, human
L-ficolin, H-ficolin and M-ficolin associate with MASPs as well as with MAp 19 and may
activate the lectin pathway upon binding to the specific carbohydrate structures
recognized by ficolins (Matsushita et al., JImmunol 164:2281-2284 (2000); Matsushita et
al., Jmmunol 168:3502-3506 (2002)). In addition to the ficolins and MBL, an MBL-like
lectin collectin, called CL-11, has been identified as a lectin pathway recognition
molecule (Hansen et al. J Immunol 185:6096-6104 (2010); Schwaeble et al. PNAS
108:7523-7528 (2011)). There is overwhelming evidence underlining the physiological
importance of these alternative carbohydrate recognition molecules and it is therefore
important to understand that MBL is not the only recognition component of the lectin
activation pathway and that MBL deficiency is not to be mistaken for lectin-pathway
deficiency. The existence of possibly an array of alternative carbohydrate-recognition
complexes structurally related to MBL may broaden the spectrum of microbial structures
that initiate a direct response of the innate immune system via activation of complement.
                                               -37-

        All lectin pathway recognition molecules are characterized by a specific MASPs
binding motif within their collagen-homologous stalk region (Wallis et al. J. Biol Chem
279:14065-14073 (2004)).      The MASP-binding site in MIBLs, CL-1 I and ficolins is
characterized by a distinct motif within this domain: H1vp-Gly-Lys-Xaa-Gly-Pro, where
Hyp is hydroxyproline and Xaa is generally an aliphatic residue. Point mutations in this
sequence disrupt M ASP binding.
        1. Respective structures, sequences, chromosomal localization and splice
            variants
        FIGURE 2 is a schematic diagram illustrating the domain structure of the MASP
2 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:5) and MAp19 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:2) and the exons
encoding the same. FIGURE 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating the domain structure
of the MASP-1 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:10), MASP-3 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:8) and
MAp44 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 11) and the exons encoding the same. As shown in
FIGURES 2 and 3, the serine proteases MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 consist of six
distinct domains arranged as found in CIr and Cis; i.e., (I) an N-terminal Clr/Cls/sea
urchin VEGF/bone morphogenic protein (or CUBI) domain; (II) an epidermal growth
factor (EGF)-like domain; (III) a second CUB domain (CUBII); (IV and V) two
complement control protein (CCP1 and CCP2) domains; and (VI) a serine protease (SP)
domain.
        The cDNA-derived amino acid sequences of human and mouse MASP-1 (Sato et
al., Int Immunol 6:665-669 (1994); Takada et al., Biochem Biophys Res Commun
196:1003-1009 (1993); Takayama et al., J. Immunol 152:2308-2316 (1994)), human,
mouse, and rat MASP-2 (Thiel et al., Nature 386:506-510 (1997); Endo et al., JImmunol
161:4924-30 (1998); Stover et al., J. Immunol 162:3481-3490 (1999); Stover et al., J.
Immunol 163:6848-6859 (1999)), as well as human MASP-3 (Dahl et al., Immunity
15:127-135 (2001)) indicate that these proteases are serine peptidases having the
characteristic triad of His, Asp and Ser residues within their putative catalytic domains
(Genbank Accession numbers:         human MASP-1:        BAA04477.1; mouse MASP-1:
BAA03944; rat MASP-1: AJ457084; Human MASP-3:AAK84071; mouse MASP-3:
AB049755, as accessed on Genbank on 2/15/2012, each of which is hereby incorporated
herein by reference).
        As further shown in FIGURES 2 and 3, upon conversion of the zymogen to the
active form, the heavy chain (alpha, or A chain) and light chain (beta, or B chain) are split
                                           -38-

to yield a disulphide-linked A-chain and a smaller B-chain representing the serine
protease domain. The single-chain proenzyme MASP-1 is activated (like proenzyme Clr
and Cis) by cleavage of an Arg-Ile bond located between the second CCP domain
(domain V) and the serine protease domain (domain VI).         Proenzymes MASP-2 and
MASP-3 are considered to be activated in a similar fashion to that of MASP-1.       Each
MASP protein forms homodimers and is individually associated with MBL and the
ficolins in a Ca+*-dependent manner.
        2. MASP-1/3
        The human MASP-1 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:10) and MASP-3 polypeptide
(SEQ ID NO:8) arise from one structural gene (Dahl et al., Immunity 15:127-135 (2001),
which has been mapped to the 3q2 7- 2 8 region of the long arm of chromosome 3 (Takada
et al., Genomics 25:757-759 (1995)).    The MASP-3 and MASP-1 mRNA transcripts are
generated from the primary transcript by an alternative splicing/polyadenylation process.
The MASP-3 translation product is composed of an alpha chain, which is common to
both MASP-1 and MASP-3, and a beta chain (the serine protease domain), which is
unique to MASP-3. As shown in FIGURE 3, the human MASP-1 gene encompasses 18
exons. The human MASP-1 cDNA (set forth as SEQ ID NO:9) is encoded by exons 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. As further shown in FIGURE 3, the
human MASP 3 gene encompasses twelve exons. The human MASP-3 cDNA (set forth
as SEQ ID NO:7) is encoded by exons 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 12. An alternative
splice results in a protein termed MBL-associated protein 44 ("MAp44)," (set forth as
SEQ ID NO: 11), arising from exons 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
        The human MASP-1 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 10 from Genbank BAA04477.1)
has 699 amino acid residues, which includes a leader peptide of 19 residues. When the
leader peptide is omitted, the calculated molecular mass of MASP-1 is 76,976 Da. As
shown in FIGURE 3, the MASP-1 amino acid sequence contains four N-linked
glycosylation sites. The domains of the human MASP-1 protein (with reference to SEQ
ID NO:10) are shown in FIGURE 3 and include an N-terminal Clr/Cls/sea urchin
VEFG/bone morphogenic protein (CUBI) domain (aa 25-137 of SEQ ID NO:10), an
epidermal growth factor-like domain (aa 139-181 of SEQ ID NO:10), a second CUB
domain (CUBII) (aa 185-296 of SEQ ID NO:10), as well as a tandem of complement
control protein (CCP1 aa 301-363 and CCP2 aa 367-432 of SEQ ID NO:10) domains and
a serine protease domain (aa 449-694 of SEQ ID NO:10).
                                           -39-

        The human MASP-3 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:8, from Genbank AAK84071) has
728 amino acid residues, which includes a leader peptide of 19 residues. When the leader
peptides are omitted, the calculated molecular mass of MASP-3 is 81,873 Da. As shown
in FIGURE 3, there are seven N -linked glycosylation sites in MASP-3. The domains of
the human MASP-3 protein (with reference to SEQ ID NO:8) are shown in FIGURE 3
and include an N-terminal Clr/Cls/sea urchin VEGF/bone morphogenic protein (CUBI)
domain (aa 25-137 of SEQ ID NO:8), an epidernal growth factor-like domain (aa 139
181 of SEQ ID NO:8), a second CUB domain (CUBII) (aa 185-296 of SEQ ID NO:8), as
well as a tandem of complement control protein (CCP1 aa 301-363 and CCP2 aa 367-432
of SEQ ID NO:8) domains and a shrine protease domain (aa 450-711 of SEQ ID NO:8).
        The MASP-3 translation product is composed of an alpha chain (heavy chain),
containing the CUB-1-EGF-CUB-2-CCP-1-CCP-2 domains (alpha chain: aa 1-448 of
SEQ ID NO:8) which is common to both MASP-1 and MASP-3, and a light chain (beta
chain: aa 449-728 of SEQ ID NO:8), containing the serine protease domain, which is
unique to MASP-3 and MASP-1.
        3. MASP-2
        The human MASP-2 gene is located on chromosome 1p36.3-2 (Stover et al.,
Cytogenet and Cell Genet 84:148-149 (1999) and encompasses twelve exons, as shown in
FIGURE 2.       MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) and MAp19 (SEQ ID NO:2) are encoded by
transcripts of a single structural gene generated by alternative splicing/polyadenylation
(Stover et al., Genes and Immunity 2:119-127 (2001)). The human MASP-2 cDNA (SEQ
ID NO:4) is encoded by exons 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. The 20 kDa protein
termed MBL-associated protein 19 ("MAp19", also referred to as "sMAP") (SEQ ID
NO:2), encoded by (SEQ ID NO:1) arises from exons 2, 3, 4 and 5. MAp19 is a
nonenzymatic protein containing the N-terminal CUB 1-EGF region of MASP-2 with four
additional residues (EQSL) derived from exon 5 as shown in FIGURE 2.
        The MASP-2 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:5) has 686 amino acid residues, which
includes a leader peptide of 15 residues that is cleaved off after secretion, resulting in the
mature form of human MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:6). As shown in FIGURE 2, the MASP-2
amino acid sequence does not contain any N-linked glycosylation sites. The MASP-2
polypeptide exhibits a molecular structure similar to MASP-1, MASP-3, and CIr and
Cis, the proteases of the Cl complement system. The domains of the human MASP-2
protein (numbered with reference to SEQ ID NO:5) are shown in FIGURE 2 and include
                                           -40-

an N-terminal Clr/Cls/sea urchin VEGF/bone morphogenic protein (CUBI) domain
(aa 24-136 of SEQ ID NO:5), an epidermal growth factor-like domain (aa 138-180 of
SEQ ID NO:5), a second CUB domain (CUBII) (aa 184-295 of SEQ ID NO:5), as well as
a tandem of complement control protein (CCPI aa 300-359 and CCP2 aa 364-431 of SEQ
ID NO:5) domains and a serine protease domain (aa 445-682 of SEQ ID NO:5).
        As shown in FIGURE 2, the MASP-2 polypeptide has an alpha chain (heavy
chain) containing the CUB-1-EGF-CUB-2-CCP-1-CCP-2 domains (alpha chain: aa 1-443
of SEQ ID NO:5) and a beta chain (light chain) containing the serine protease domain
(beta chain: aa 444-686).    The CUB-1, EGF and CUB-2 domains are required for
dimerization and the CUB-1, EGF, CUB-2 and CCP-1 domains contain the binding site
for MBP. As described in Wallis et al., J. Biol Chem 279:14065-14073 (2004), each
MASP-2 dimer binds to two MBL subunits.
        4. Comparison of MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 amino acid sequences
        FIGURE 4 is an amino acid alignment of the protein sequences of MASP-1 (SEQ
ID NO:10), MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:6) and MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8), showing the CUBI,
EGF, CUBII, CCPJ, CCP2 domains and conserved catalytic triad residues (H, D, S) in
the serine protease (SP) domains.    The symbol "." indicates an identical amino acid
sequence.
        FIGURE 5 is an amino acid alignment of the alpha chain sequences, including
the CUBI-EGF-CUBII-CCP1-CCP2, of MASP-1 (alpha chain: aa 1-447 of SEQ ID
NO:10) MASP-2 (alpha chain: aa 1-443 of SEQ ID NO:5) and MASP-3 (alpha chain: aa
1-448 of SEQ ID NO:8). There are numerous patches of identity in the CUBI, EGF, and
CUBII domains, as indicated by dotted boxes in FIGURE 5. The CCP1 and CCP2
domains are indicated by the dark shaded boxes. The overall percent identity between the
alpha chains of human MASPI/3 and human MASP-2 is provided below in TABLE 1.
        FIGURE 6 is an amino acid alignment of the beta chain sequences (including the
serine protease domains) of MASP-1 (beta chain: aa 448-699 of SEQ ID NO:10), MASP
2 (beta chain: aa 444-686 of SEQ ID NO:5) and MASP-3 (beta chain: aa 449-728 of SEQ
ID NO:8). FIGURE 7A shows a pairwise amino acid alignment between the beta chain
sequences of MASP-1 (beta chain: aa 448-699 of SEQ ID NO:10) and MASP-2 (beta
chain: aa 444-686 of SEQ ID NO:5).         FIGURE 7B shows a pairwise amino acid
alignment between the beta chain sequences of MASP-1 (beta chain: aa 448-699 of SEQ
ID NO:10) and MASP-3 (beta chain: aa 449-728 of SEQ ID NO:8). FIGURE 7C shows
                                          -41-

a pairwise amino acid alignment between the beta chain sequences of MASP-2 (beta
chain: aa 444-686 of SEQ ID NO:5) and MASP-3 (beta chain: aa 449-728 of SEQ ID
NO:8). The regions of identity in FIGURES 5-7 are shown as dotted boxes surrounding
the identical amino acids (shown as "." Symbol).
        The percent identity between the alpha and beta chains of the human MASP-1,
MASP-2 and MASP-3 proteins is provided in TABLE 1 below.
        TABLE 1: Percent Identity between human MASP proteins
               % Identity Between A Chains             % Identity Between B Chains
               MASP-1       MASP-2      MASP-3         MASP-1       MASP-2        MASP-3
MASP-1         100%         45.6%        98%           100%         27%           27%
MASP-2         45.6%        100%        45.4%          27%          100%          28.6%
MASP-3         98%          45.4%        100%          27%          28.6%         100%
        With regard to the alpha chains (heavy chains), as indicated above in TABLE 1,
the MASP-1 and MASP-3 alpha chains are identical (except for the 15 amino acid
sequence at 3' end). The overall % identity between the MASP-2 and MASP-3 alpha
chain is 45.4%, with numerous patches of identity in the CUBI-EGF-CUBII domains, as
shown in FIGURE 5.
        With regard to the beta chains (light chains), the overall percent identity between
the three beta chains is low, in the range of 27% to 28%. However, although overall
identity between the three B-chains is low, there are numerous patches of identity, as
shown in FIGURE 6.         As further shown in FIGURES 7A-C, identical patches of
sequence are more broadly distributed between MASP-2 and 3 than between 1 and 2 or 1
and 3.
        All the cysteine residues present in MASP-2, MASP-3, CIr and Cis align with
equivalent residues in MASP-1; however, MASP-1 has two cysteine residues (at
positions 465 and 481 in the L chain) that are not found in the MASP-2, MASP-3, CIr
and Cis. These two cysteine residues in MASP-1 are in the expected positions used to
form the 'histidine-loop' disulfide bridge as found in trypsin and chymotrypsin. This
suggests that MASP-2, MASP-3, Cir, and Cls may have evolved, by gene duplication
and divergence, from MASP-1 (Nonaka & Miyazawa, Genome Biology 3 Reviews
1001.1-1001.5 (2001)).
                                           -42-

        5. Respective biological functions/activities, including relevant human
            genetic data
        The role of the MBL/Ficolin-MASPs complexes in innate immunity is mediated
via the calcium-dependent binding of the C-type lectin domains (present in the MBL
molecule) or via the binding of the fibrinogen-like domains (present in the ficolin
molecule) to carbohydrate structures found on yeast, bacteria, viruses, and fungi. This
recognition phase brings about the activation of the proenzyme MASP-2, which then
mimics the action of the activated Cis within the Clq-(Clr)2-(Cls)2 complex by
cleaving C4 and C2 to form the C3 convertase C4b2b. This allows deposition of C4b and
C3b on target pathogens and thus promotes killing and clearance through phagocytosis.
        Evidence in the recent literature suggests that the lectin pathway activation
complex only requires the activity of MASP-2 to cleave C4 and C2: i) the reconstitution
of a minimal lectin-pathway       activation complex using recombinant         MBL and
recombinantly expressed MASP-2 appears to be sufficient to effectively cleave both C4
and C2 in vitro (Vorup-Jensen et al., J Immunol 165:2093-2100 (2000); Rossi et al., J
Biol Chem 276:40880-40887 (2001); Ambrus et al., J Immunol 170:1374-1382 (2003);
Gil et al, JBiol Chem 280:33435-33444 (2005)); while ii) the serum of mice with a gene
targeted deficiency of MASP-2 is devoid of any lectin pathway functional activity
(Schwaeble et al., PNAS 108:7523-7528 (2011)).        Recently, a genetically determined
deficiency of MASP-2 was described (Stengaard-Pedersen et al., New Eng. J. Med.
349:554-560, (2003)). The mutation of a single nucleotide leads to an Asp-Gly exchange
in the CUBI domain and renders MASP-2 incapable of binding to MBL.
        In addition, the functional characterization of sera of mice deficient of both
MASP-1 and MASP-3 shows that lectin pathway activity is slower, but not absent when
comparing sera of wild-type and MASP-1/MASP-3 knockout (MASP-1/3-)            mice under
physiological conditions (Takahashi et al., J. Innunol 180:6132-6138 (2008); Schwaeble
et al., PNAS (2011)).    These studies suggest that in contrast to the classical pathway
effector endopeptidase CIs, activation of MASP-2 does not essentially involve or require
the activity of any of the other MBL-associated seine endopeptidases (i.e., MASP-1 or
MASP-3) and that the proteolytic activity of MASP-2 suffices to translate binding of the
carbohydrate recognition molecules of the lectin pathway (i.e., MBL, ficolins or CL-11)
into complement activation. However, more recent studies have demonstrated that while
MASP-2 does have the capacity to autoactivate, the catalytic rate of MASP-1 activation
                                            -43-

of the MASP-2 zymogen exceeds that of MASP-2 cleavage of its own zymogen form by
about 85,000 fold (H~ja et al., PNAS 106:10498-503 (2011); Megyeri et al., J. Biol.
Chem. 288(13):8922-34 (2013)).        Therefore, it is likely that the primary activator of
MASP-2 in physiological settings is MASP-1. As judged by the size of the fragments of
C4 generated, and the functional C3 convertase activity generated, it seems likely that the
activated MASP-2 cleaves C4 and C2 in an identical manner to that carried out by
activated Cls, i.e,. at a single arginyl bond (Arg76 Ala77) within the alpha-chain of C4
and at a single arginyl bond (Arg223 Lys224) within the proenzyme chain of C2. It has
also been reported that the mouse MASP (in the form of the mouse MBL-MASP
complex designated Ra-reactive factor) can, unlike Cls, cleave the alpha-chain of
complement component C3 to yield the biologically active fragments C3a and C3b
(Ogata et al, J. Immunol 154:2351-2357 (1995)). If this were to take place in the human
system, it would require the cleavage of a single arginyl bond (Arg77 Ser78) within the
alpha-chain of C3.       Activated MASP-2, like activated Cis, is unable to cleave
complement component C5.         The proteolytic activities of MASP-1 and MASP-2 are
inhibited by Cl-Inhibitor (Matsushita et al., J Immunol 165:2637-2642 (2000) whereas
Cl-Inhibitor does not react with MASP-3 (Dahl et al., Immunity 15:127-135 (2001);
Zundel et al., JImmunol 172:4342-4350 (2004)).
        The biological functions of MASP-1 and MASP-3 have been slow to emerge. The
substrate specificity and the physiological role of MASP-1 have been a subject of debate
since its discovery. Numerous potential substrates have been identified during the recent
years.   It was suggested that MASP-1 can cleave native C3 slowly and this direct
cleavage of C3 may initiate the complement cascade perhaps with the contribution of the
alternative pathway (Matsushita et al., J Immunol 165:2637-2642 (2000)). Later it was
shown that recombinant MASP-1 cleaves the inactive (thioester hydrolyzed) form of C3
which is unproductive in terms of initiating the complement cascade (Ambrus et al., J
Imnunol 170:1374-1382 (2003)).         The lack of lectin pathway activity in the serum
dilutions of MASP-2-deficient mice unequivocally proved that the MASP-1-driven C3
bypass mechanism does not exist (Schwaeble et al., PNAS 108:7523-7528 (2011)). The
complement components that are cleaved by MASP-1 with considerable efficiency are C2
(Rossi et al., JBiol Chem 276:40880-40887 (2001); Ambrus et al., .JImmunol 170:1374
1382 (2003)) and the zymogen form of factor D (Takahashi et al., JExp Med 207:29-37
(2010)). As for the ability of MASP-1 to cleave C2, it is plausible therefore that MASP-1
                                            -44-

can augment the C3-convertase (C4b2a)-forming ability of MASP-2 via C2 cleavage.
This suggestion is supported by the observation that the activity of the lectin pathway is
diminished in MASP-1 -depleted human serum and in the serum of MASP-1/3-deficient
mice (Takahashi et al., J Inmunol 180:6132-6138 (2008)), which observation also
suggests that MASP-1 has a role in activating MASP-2.        Moreover, while every C4b
deposited by MBL-MASPs complex can form C4b2a convertase, only one out of four
C4b deposited by the classical pathway C1 complex can do the same (Rawal et al., JBiol
Chem 283 (12):7853-63 (2008)).
         MASP-1 also cleaves MASP-2 and MASP-3 (Megyeri M., et al, J Biol Chem.
2013 Mar 29;288(13):8922-34). Recent experiments suggest that although MASP-2 can
autoactivate, MASP-1 is the primary activator of zymogen MASP-2. The activation of
MASP-2 was delayed in the serum of MASP-1 knockout mice (Takahashi et al., J
Immunol 180: 6132-6138 (2008)) and a similar result was obtained when the activity of
MASP-1 was blocked by a specific inhibitor in normal human serum (Kocsis et al., J
Immunol 185(7):4169-78 (2010)). Moreover, Degn et al. (J. Immunol. 189(8): 3957-69
(2012)) found MASP-1 to be critical for MASP-2 activation and subsequent C4 cleavage
in human serum. The catalytic rate for the conversion of zymogen MASP-2 to active
MASP-2 is more than 85,000-fold greater than the rate by which MASP-2 can
autoactivate (Megyeri et al., J. Biol. Chem. 288:8922-8934 (2013); H6ja et al., J. Biol.
Chem. 287(24):20290-300 (2012); H6ja et al., PNAS 109:10498-503 (2012)).
         Recent discoveries have also linked MASP-1 to the alternative pathway. MASP-1
can convert zymogen factor D into its enzymatically active form (FIGURE 39;
Takahashi et al., J Exp Med 207:29-37 (2010)).       Furthermore, MASP-1 activates the
zymogen form of MASP-3 (Megyeri et al., J. Biol. Chem. 288:8922-8934 (2013); Degn
et al. J. Immunol. 189(8): 3957-69 (2012)), which itself can activate zymogen factor D
(FIGURE 39) as well as cleave factor B, another essential component of the alternative
pathway, to its active form (Iwaki et al., J. Immunol. 187:3751-58 (2011)).             The
conversion of pro-factor D and pro-factor B, however, is likely to be independent of the
activation state of LEA-2 and may occur through non-complex-bound MASP- 1.
         Several lines of evidence indicate that MASP-1 is a thrombin-like enzyme and is
important in activation of the coagulation pathway.         MASP-1 can cleave several
substrates of thrombin including fibrinogen (Hajela K. et al., Immunobiology 205(4
5):467-75 (2002)), factor XIII (Krarup et al., Biochim Biophys Acta 1784(9):1294-1300
                                             -45-

(2008)) and protease-activated receptor 4 (PAR4) (Megyeri et al., .J Immnunol
183(5):3409-16 (2009)). Moreover, antithrombin in the presence of heparin is a more
efficient inhibitor of MASP-1 than Cl-inhibitor (Dob6 et al., .JImnmunol 183:1207-1214
(2009)). The connection between the complement and the coagulation pathway is also
underlined by the observation that MASP-2 is able to activate prothrombin (Krarup A. et
al., PLoS One 2(7):e623 (2007)).       Limited coagulation represents an ancient type of
innate immunity when the spreading of invading pathogens is prevented by the fibrin clot.
The releasing fibrinopeptide B has proinflammatory activity.        The MASP-1-mediated
cleavage of PAR4 activates the endothelial cells-initiating inflammatory reaction
(Megyeri et al., JImmunol 183(5):3409-16 (2009)).
        MASP-3 has no proteolytic activity towards C4, C2 or C3 substrates. Conversely,
MASP-3 was reported to act as an inhibitor of the lectin pathway (Dahl et al., Immunity
15:127-135 (2001)).      This conclusion may have come about because in contrast to
MASP-1 and MASP-2, MASP-3 is not an autoactivating enzyme (Zundel S. et al., J
Immunol 172:4342-4350 (2004); Megyeri et al., J. Biol. Chem. 288:8922-8934 (2013).
        Recently, evidence for possible physiological functions of MASP-1 and MASP-3
emerged from transgenic mouse studies using a mouse strain with a combined MASP-1
and MASP-3 deficiency.         While MASP-1/3-knockout mice have a functional lectin
pathway (Schwaeble et al., PNAS 108:7523-7528 (2011)), they appear to lack alternative
pathway activity (Takahashi et al., JEM 207(1):29-37 (2010)).          Lack of alternative
pathway activity appears to be due to a processing defect of complement factor D, which
is necessary for alternative pathway activity. In MASP-1/3 knockout mice, all factor D is
circulating as a proteolytically inactive pro-form, whereas in the serum of normal mice,
substantially all of factor D is in the active form. Biochemical analysis suggested that
MASP-1 may be able to convert complement factor D from its zymogen form into its
enzymatically active form (FIGURE 39; Takahashi et al., JEM 207(1):29-37 (2010)).
MASP-3 also cleaves pro-factor D zymogen and produce active factor D in vitro
(FIGURE 39; Takahashi et al., JEM 207(1):29-37 (2010)). Factor D is present as an
active enzyme in circulation in normal individuals, and MASP-1 and MASP-3, as well as
HTRA-1, may be responsible for this activation. Furthermore, mice with combined MBL
and ficolin deficiencies still produce normal levels of factor D and have a fully functional
alternative pathway. Thus, these physiological functions of MASP-1 and MA SP-3 do not
necessarily involve lectins, and are thus unrelated to the lectin pathway. Recombinant
                                             -46-

mouse and human MASP-3 also appear to cleave factor B and support C3 deposition on
S. aureus in vitro (FIGURE 36; Iwaki D. et al., Jfmnunol 187(7):3751-8 (2011)).
        An unexpected physiological role for MASP-3 has emerged from recent studies of
patients with 3MC syndrome           (previously designated the Carnevale, Mingarelli,
Malpuech, and Michels syndrome; OMIM # 257920).             These patients display severe
developmental abnormalities, including cleft palate, cleft lip, cranial malformations and
mental retardation. Genetic analysis identified 3MC patients that were homozygous for a
dysfunctional MASP-3 gene (Rooryck et al., Nat Genet. 43(3):197-203 (2011)). Another
group of 3MC patients was found to be homozygous for a mutation in the MASP-1 gene
that leads to the absence of functional MASP- 1 and MASP-3 proteins. Yet another group
of 3MC patients lacked a functional CL-I1 gene. (Rooryck et al., Nat Genet. 43(3):197
203 (2011)). Thus, the CL-11 MASP-3 axis appears to play a role during embryonic
development. The molecular mechanisms of this developmental pathway are unclear. It
is unlikely, however, to be mediated by a conventional complement-driven process since
individuals with deficiencies of common complement components C3 do not develop this
syndrome. Thus, prior to the discovery of the instant inventors, as described herein, a
functional role for MASP-3 in lectin-dependent complement activation was previously
not established.
        The structures of the catalytic fragment of MASP-1 and MASP-2 have been
determined by X-ray crystallography.          Structural comparison of MASP-1 protease
domain with those of other complement proteases revealed the basis of its relaxed
substrate specificity (Dob6 et al., J. Immunol 183:1207-1214 (2009)).          While the
accessibility of the substrate binding groove of MASP-2 is restricted by surface loops
(Harmat et al., JMol Biol 342:1533-1546 (2004)), MASP-1 has an open substrate binding
pocket which resembles that of trypsin rather than other complement proteases.          A
thrombin-like property of the MASP-1 structure is the unusually large 60 amino acid loop
(loop B) which may interact with substrates. Another interesting feature of the MASP-1
structure is the internal salt bridge between the Si Asp189 and Arg224. A similar salt
bridge can be found in the substrate binding pocket of factor D, which can regulate its
protease activity.     Cls and MASP-2 have almost identical substrate specificities.
Surprisingly, some of the eight surface loops of MASP-2, which determine the substrate
specificities, have quite different conformations compared to those of Cl s. This means
that the two functionally related enzymes interact with the same substrates in a different
                                             -47-

manner. The structure of zymogen MASP-2 shows an inactive protease domain with
disrupted oxyanion hole and substrate binding pocket (Gil et al., JBiol Chein 280:33435
33444 (2005)). Surprisingly, zymogen MASP-2 shows considerable activity on a large
protein substrate, C4. It is likely that the structure of zymogen MASP-2 is quite flexible,
enabling the transition between the inactive and the active forms. This flexibility, which
is reflected in the structure, may play a role in the autoactivation process.
          Northern blot analysis indicates that liver is the major source of MASP-1 and
MASP-2 mRNA. Using a 5' specific cDNA probe for MASP-1, major MASP-1 transcript
was seen at 4.8 kb and a minor one at approximately 3.4 kb, both present in human and
mouse liver (Stover et al., Genes Immunity 4:374-84 (2003)). MASP-2 mRNA (2.6 kb)
and MAp19 mRNA (1.0 kb) are abundantly expressed in liver tissue.                MASP-3 is
expressed in the liver, and also in many other tissues, including neuronal tissue (Lynch N.
J. et al., JImmunol 174:4998-5006 (2005)).
          A patient with a history of infections and chronic inflammatory disease was found
to have a mutated form of MASP-2 that fails to form an active MBL-MASP complex
(Stengaard-Pedersen et al., NEngl JMed 349:554-560 (2003)). Some investigators have
determined that deficiency of MBL leads to a tendency to frequent infections in
childhood (Super et al., Lancet 2:1236-1239 (1989); Garred et al., Lancet 346:941-943
(1995) and a decreased resistance to HIV infection (Nielsen et al., Clin Exp Iminunol
100:219-222 (1995); Garred et al., Mol Immunol 33 (suppl 1):8 (1996)). However, other
studies have not demonstrated a significant correlation of low MBL levels with increased
infections (Egli et al., PLoS One. 8(1):e51983(2013); Ruskamp et al., J Infect Dis.
198(11):1707-13 (2008); Isra61s et al., Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. 95(6):F452-61
(2010)). While the literature is mixed, deficiency, or non-utilization, of MASP may have
an adverse effect on an individual's ability to mount immediate, non-antibody-dependent
defense against certain pathogens.
          iii.   Supporting data for the new understanding, underscoring traditional assay
                 conditions that are devoid of Ca' and results obtained using a more
                 physiological set of conditions that include Ca".
          Several independent lines of strong experimental evidence are provided herein
pointing to the conclusion that the lectin pathway activation route of complement
activates complement via two independent effector mechanisms: i) LEA-2: a MASP-2
                                               -48-

driven path that mediates complement-driven opsonisation, chemotaxis (Schwaeble et al.,
PNAS 108:7523-7528 (2011)), and cell lysis, and ii) LEA-I: a novel MASP-3-dependent
activation route that initiates complement activation by generating the alternative
pathway convertase C3bBb through cleavage and activation of factor B on activator
surfaces, which will then catalyze C3b deposition and formation of the alternative
pathway convertase C3bBb, which can result in cell lysis as well as microbial
opsonization. In addition, as described herein, separate lectin-independent activation of
factor B and/or factor D by MASP-1, MASP-3, or HTRA-1, or a combination of any the
three, can also lead to complement activation via the alternative pathway.
        A lectin pathway-dependent MASP-3-driven activation of the alternative pathway
appears to contribute to the well-established factor D-mediated cleavage of C3b-bound
factor B to achieve optimal activation rates for complement-dependent lysis through the
terminal activation cascade to lyse bacterial cells through the formation of C5b-9
membrane attack complexes (MAC) on the cellular surface (FIGURES 14-15).                This
rate-limited event appears to require optimal coordination as it is defective in the absence
of MASP-3 functional activity as well as in the absence of factor D functional activity.
As described in Examples 1-4 herein, the inventors discovered this MASP-3-dependent
lectin pathway function when studying the phenotype of MASP-2 deficiency and MASP
2 inhibition in experimental mouse models of N. menigitidis infection. Gene-targeted,
MASP-2-deficient mice and wild-type mice treated with antibody-based MASP-2
inhibitors were highly resistant to experimental N. meningitidis infection (see FIGURES
8-12). When the infectious dose was adjusted to give approximately 60% mortality in the
wild-type littermates, all of the MASP-2-deficient or MASP-2-depleted mice cleared the
infection and survived (see FIGURE 8 and FIGURE 12). This extremely high degree of
resistance was reflected in a significant increase of serum bactericidal activity in MASP
2-deficient or MASP-2-depleted mouse serum. Further experiments showed that this
bactericidal activity was dependent on alternative pathway-driven bacterial lysis. Mouse
sera deficient of factor B, or factor D, or C3 showed no bactericidal activity towards N.
ineningitidis, indicating that the alternative pathway is essential for driving the terminal
activation cascade. A surprising result was that mouse sera deficient of MBL-A and
MBL-C      (both being the lectin-pathway recognition molecules that recognize N.
 neningitidis) as well as mouse sera deficient of the lectin pathway-associated serine
proteases MASP-1 and MASP-3 had lost all bacteriolytic activity towards N. meningitidis
                                              -49-

(FIGURE 15). A recent paper (Takahashi M. et al., JEM 207: 29-37 (2010)) and work
presented herein (FIGURE 39) demonstrate that MASP-1 can convert the zymogen form
of factor D into its enzymatically active form and may in part explain the loss of lytic
activity through the absence of enzymatically active factor D in these sera. This does not
explain the lack of bactericidal activity in MBL-deficient mice since these mice have
normal enzymatically active factor D (Banda et al., Mol Jinunol 49(1-2):281-9 (2011)).
Remarkably, when testing human sera from patients with the rare 3MC autosomal
recessive disorder (Rooryck C, et al., Nat Genet. 43(3):197-203) with mutations that
render the serine protease domain of MASP-3 dysfunctional, no bactericidal activity
against N. meningitidis was detectable (n.b.: These sera have MASP-1 and factor D, but
no MASP-3).
         The hypothesis that human serum requires lectin pathway-mediated MASP-3
dependent activity to develop bactericidal activity is further supported by the observation
that MBL-deficient human sera also fail to lyse N. meningitidis (FIGURES 13-14).
MBL is the only human lectin-pathway recognition molecule that binds to this pathogen.
Since MASP-3 does not auto-activate, the inventors hypothesize that the higher
bacteriolytic activity in MASP-2-deficient sera could be explained by a favored activation
of MASP-3 through MASP-1 since, in the absence of MASP-2, all lectin-pathway
activation complexes that bind to the bacterial surface will be loaded with either MASP-1
or MASP-3.       Since activated MASP-3 cleaves both factor D (FIGURE 39) and factor B
to generate their respective enzymatically active forms in vitro (FIGURE 37 and Iwaki
D., et al., J. Ininunol.187(7):3751-3758(2011)), the most likely function of MASP-3 is to
facilitate the formation of the alternative pathway C3 convertase (i.e., C3bBb).
         While the data for the lectin-dependent role are compelling, multiple experiments
suggest that MASP-3 and MASP-1 are not necessarily obligated to function in a complex
with lectin molecules. Experiments such as that shown in FIGURE 35B demonstrate the
ability of MASP-3 to activate the alternative pathway (as demonstrated by C3b deposition
on S. aureus) under conditions (i.e., the presence of EGTA) in which complexes with
lectin would not be present. FIGURE 35A demonstrates that deposition under these
conditions is dependent upon factor B, factor D, and factor P, all critical components of
the alternative pathway.       Addtionally, factor D activation by MASP-3 and MASP-1
(FIGURE 39), and factor B activation by MASP-3 (FIGURE 37) can occur in vitro in
the absence of lectin. Finally, hemolysis studies of mouse erythrocytes in the presence of
                                              -50-

human serum demonstrate a clear role for both MBL and MASP-3 for cell lysis.
However, the deficiency of MBL does not completely reproduce the severity of the
deficiency of MASP-3, in contrast to what would be expected if all functional MASP-3
were complexed with MBL. Thus, the inventors do not wish to be constrained by the
notion that all of the roles for MASP-3 (and MASP-1) demonstrated herein can be
attributed solely to function associated with lectin.
        The identification of the two effector arms of the lectin pathway, as well as the
possible lectin-independent functions of MASP-1, MASP-3, and HTRA-1, represent
novel opportunities for therapeutic interventions to effectively treat defined human
pathologies caused by excessive complement activation in the presence of microbial
pathogens or altered host cells or metabolic deposits. As described herein, the inventors
have now discovered that in the absence of MASP-3 and in the presence of MASP-1, the
alternative pathway is not activated on surface structures (see FIGURES 17-18, 35B, 41
42, 45-46). Since the alternative pathway is important in driving the rate-limiting events
leading to bacterial lysis as well as cell lysis (Mathieson PW, et al., J Exp Med
177(6):1827-3 (1993)), our results demonstrate that activated MASP-3 plays an important
role in the lytic activity of complement. As shown in FIGURES 14-15, 21-23, 43-44,
and 46-47, in serum of 3MC patients lacking MASP-3 but not MASP-1, the lytic terminal
activation cascade of complement is defective. The data shown in FIGURES 14 and 15
demonstrate a loss of bacteriolytic activity in absence of MASP-3 and/or MASP
1/MASP-3 functional activity.      Likewise, the loss of hemolytic activity in MASP-3
deficient human serum (FIGURES 21-23, 43-44 and 46-47), coupled with the ability to
reconstitute hemolysis by adding recombinant MASP-3 (FIGURES 46-47), strongly
supports the conclusion that activation of the alternative pathway on target surfaces
(which is essential to drive complement-mediated lysis) depends on the presence of
activated MASP-3.       Based on the new understanding of the lectin pathway detailed
above, alternative pathway activation of target surfaces is thus dependent upon LEA-1,
and/or lectin-independent activation of factor B and/or factor D, which is also mediated
by MASP-3, and therefore, agents that block MASP-3-dependent complement activation
will prevent alternative pathway activation on target surfaces.
        The disclosure of the essential role of MASP-3-dependent initiation of alternative
pathway activation implies that the alternative pathway is not an independent, stand-alone
pathway of complement activation as described in essentially all current medical
                                             -51-

textbooks and recent review articles on complement.         The current and widely held
scientific view is that the alternative pathway is activated on the surface of certain
particulate targets (microbes, zymosan, and rabbit erythrocytes) through the amplification
of spontaneous "tick-over" C3 activation.        However, the absence of any alternative
pathway activation in sera of MASP-1 and MASP-3 double-deficient mice and human
3MC patient serum on both zymosan-coated plates and two different bacteria (N.
meningitidis and S. aureus), and the reduction of heiolysis of erythrocytes in MASP-3
deficient sera from human and mouse indicate that initiation of alternative pathway
activation on these surfaces requires functional MASP-3. The required role for MASP-3
may be either lectin-dependent or -independent, and leads to formation of the alternative
pathway C3 convertase and C5 convertase complexes, i.e. C3bBb and C3bBb(C3b)n,
respectively.   Thus, the inventors here disclose the existence of a previously elusive
initiation routes for the alternative pathway. This initiation route is dependent upon (i)
LEA-1, a newly discovered activation arm of the lectin pathway, and/or (ii) lectin
independent roles of the proteins MASP-3, MASP- 1, and HTRA- 1.
III.     THE ROLE OF MASP-2 AND MASP-3 IN PAROXYSMAL NOCTURNAL
         HEMOGLOBINURIA AND THERAPEUTIC METHODS USING MASP-2
         AND MASP-3 INHIBITORY AGENTS
         i.     Overview of PNH
         Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), sometimes also referred to as
Marchiafava-Micheli syndrome, is an acquired, potentially life-threatening disease of the
blood. PNH may develop on its own, referred to as "primary PNH" or in the context of
other bone marrow disorders such as aplastic anemia, referred to as "secondary PNH."
The majority of cases are primary PNH. PNH is characterized by complement-induced
destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis), low red blood cell counts (anemia), thrombosis
and bone marrow failure. Laboratory findings in PNH show changes consistent with
intravascular hemolytic anemia: low hemoglobin, raised lactate dehydrogenase, raised
reticulocyte counts (immature red cells released by the bone marrow to replace the
destroyed cells), raised bilirubin (a breakdown product of hemoglobin), in the absence of
autoreactive RBC-binding antibodies as a possible cause.
         The hallmark of PNH is the chronic complement-mediated hemolysis caused by
the unregulated activation of terminal complement components, including the membrane
                                            -52-

attack complex, on the surface of circulating RBCs.           PNH RBCs are subject to
uncontrolled complement activation and hemolysis due to the absence of the complement
regulators CD55 and CD59 on their surface (Lindorfer, M.A., et al., Blood 115(11):2283
91 (2010), Risitano, et al., Afini-Reviews in Mlfedicinal Chemistry, 11:528-535 (2011)).
CD55 and CD59 are abundantly expressed on normal RBCs and control complement
activation. CD55 acts as a negative regulator of the alternative pathway, inhibiting the
assembly of the alternative pathway C3 convertase (C3bBb) complex and accelerating the
decay of preformed convertase, thus blocking the formation of the membrane attack
complex (MAC). CD59 inhibits the complement membrane attack complex directly by
binding the C5b678 complex and preventing C9 from binding and polymerizing.
        While hemolysis and anemia are the dominant clinical features of PNH, the
disease is a complex hematologic disorder that further includes thrombosis and bone
marrow failure as part of the clinical findings (Risitano et al, Mini Reviews in Med
Cheml 1:528-535 (2011)). At the molecular level, PNH is caused by the abnormal clonal
expansion of hematopoietic stem cells lacking a functional PIG A gene. PIG A is an X
linked gene encoding a glycosyl-phosphatidyl inositol transferase required for the stable
surface expression of GPI-anchored class A glycoproteins, including CD55 and CD59.
For reasons that are presently under investigation, hematopoietic stem cells with a
dysfunctional PIG A gene that arise as the result of spontaneous somatic mutations can
undergo clonal expansion to the point where their progeny constitute a significant portion
of the peripheral hematopoietic cell pool.         While both erythrocyte and lymphocyte
progeny of the mutant stem cell clone lack CD55 and CD59, only the RBCs undergo
overt lysis after they enter the circulation.
        Current treatment for PNH includes blood transfusion for anemia, anticoagulation
for thrombosis and the use of the monoclonal antibody eculizumab (Soliris@), which
protects blood cells against immune destruction by inhibiting the complement system
(Hillmen P. et al., N. Engl. J. Med. 350(6):552-559 (2004)). Eculizumab (Soliris) is a
humanized monoclonal antibody that targets the complement component C5, blocking its
cleavage by C5 convertases, thereby preventing the production of C5a and the assembly
of MAC.      Treatment of PNH patients with eculizumab has resulted in a reduction of
intravascular hemolysis, as measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), leading to
hemoglobin stabilization and transfusion independence in about half of the patients
(Risitano et al, Mini-Reviews in M'edicinal Chemistry, 11(6) (2011)). While nearly all
                                              -53-

patients undergoing therapy with eculizumab achieve normal or almost normal LDH
levels (due to control of intravascular hemolysis), only about one third of the patients
reach a hemoglobin value about 11 gr/dL, and the remaining patients on eculizumab
continue to exhibit moderate to severe (i.e., transfusion-dependent) anemia, in about
equal proportions (Risitano A.M. et al., Blood 113:4094-100 (2009)).       As described in
Risitano et al., Aini-Reviews in Medicinal Chemistry 11:528-535 (2011), it was
demonstrated that PNH patients on eculizumab contained large amounts of C3 fragments
bound to their PNH erythrocytes (while untreated patients did not). This finding lead to
the recognition that in Soliris treated PNH patients, PNH RBCs that are no longer
hemolyzed due to C5 blockade now can accumulate copious amounts of membrane
bound C3 fragments, which operate as opsonins, resulting in their entrapment in the
reticuloendothelial cells through specific C3 receptors and subsequent extravascular
hemolysis. Thus, while preventing intravascular hemolysis and the resulting sequelae,
eculizumab therapy simply diverts the disposition of these RBCs from intravascular to
extravascular hemolysis, resulting in substantial residual untreated anemia in many
patients (Risitano A.M. et al., Blood 113:4094-100 (2009)).         Therefore, therapeutic
strategies in addition to the use of eculizumab are needed for those patients developing
C3-fragment-mediated extravascular hemolysis, because they continue to require red cell
transfusions. Such C3 fragment targeting approaches have demonstrated utility in
experimental systems (Lindorfer et al., Blood 115:2283-91, 2010).
         ii.    Complement-initiating mechanisms in PNH
         The causal link between defective surface expression of the negative complement
regulators CD55 and CD59 in PNH, combined with the effectiveness of eculizumab in
preventing intravascular hemolysis, clearly define PNH as a condition mediated by the
complement system. While this paradigm is widely accepted, the nature of the events
initiating complement activation, and the complement activation pathway(s) involved
remain unresolved.       Because CD55 and CD59 negatively regulate the terminal
amplification steps in the complement cascade common to all complement initiation
pathways, deficiency of these molecules will lead to exaggerated formation and
membrane integration of membrane attack complexes, regardless of whether complement
activation is initiated by the lectin pathway, by the classical pathway or by spontaneous
turnover of the alternative pathway. Thus, in PNH patients, any complement activation
events that lead to C3b deposition on the RBC surface can trigger subsequent
                                            -54-

amplification and pathological      hemolysis (intravascular and/or extravascular) and
precipitate a hemolytic crisis. A clear mechanistic understanding of the molecular events
triggering hemolytic crisis in PNH patients has remained elusive.                Because no
complement initiating event is overtly evident in PNH patients undergoing a hemolytic
crisis, the prevailing view is that complement            activation in PNH may occur
spontaneously owing to low level "tick-over" activation of the alternative pathway, which
is subsequently magnified by inappropriate control of terminal complement activation
due to lack of CD55 and CD59.
         However, it is important to note that in its natural history, PNH usually develops
or is exacerbated after certain events, such as an infection or an injury (Risitano,
Biologics 2:205-222 (2008)), which have been shown to trigger complement activation.
This complement activation response is not dependent on prior immunity of the host
towards the inciting pathogen, and hence likely does not involve the classical pathway.
Rather, it appears that this complement activation response is initiated by lectin binding
to foreign or "altered self' carbohydrate patterns expressed on the surface of microbial
agents or damaged host tissue. Thus, the events precipitating hemolytic crisis in PNH are
tightly linked to complement activation initiated via lectins. This makes it very likely
that lectin activation pathways provide the initiating trigger that ultimately leads to
hemolysis in PNH patients.
         Using well-defined     pathogens    that  activate   complement via       lectins as
experimental models to dissect the activation cascades at the molecular level, we
demonstrate that, depending on the inciting microbe, complement activation can be
initiated by either LEA-2 or LEA-1, leading to opsonization and/or lysis. This same
principle of dual responses (i.e., opsonization and/or lysis) to lectin initiation events will
likely also apply to other types of infectious agents, or to complement activation by
lectins following tissue injury to the host, or other lectin-driven complement activation
events that may precipitate PNH. On the basis of this duality in the lectin pathway, we
infer that LEA-2- and/or LEA-1-initiated complement activation in PNH patients
promotes opsonization and/or lysis of RBCs with C3b and subsequent extravascular and
intravascular hemolysis. Therefore, in the setting of PNH, inhibition of both LEA-i and
LEA-2 would be expected to address both intravascular and extravascular hemolysis,
providing a significant advantage over the C5 inhibitor eculizumab.
                                             -55-

        It has been determined that exposure to S. pneumoniae preferentially triggers
lectin-dependent activation of LEA-2, which leads to opsonization of this microbe with
C3b.     Since S. pneumonia is resistant to MAC-mediated lysis, its clearance from
circulation occurs through opsonisation with C3b.      This opsonization and subsequent
removal from circulation is LEA-2-dependent, as indicated by compromised bacterial
control in MASP-2-deficient mice and in mice treated with MASP-2 monoclonal
antibodies (PLOS Pathog., 8: e1002793. (2012)).
        In exploring the role of LEA-2 in the innate host responses to microbial agents,
we tested additional pathogens. A dramatically different outcome was observed when
Neisseria meningitidis was studied as a model organism. N. meningitidis also activates
complement via lectins, and complement activation is required for containment of N.
meningitidis infections in the naYve host. However, LEA-2 plays no host protective
functional role in this response: As shown in FIGURES 8 and 9, blockade of LEA-2
through genetic ablation of MASP-2 does not reduce survival following infection with N.
meningitidis.   To the contrary, LEA-2 blockade by MASP-2 ablation significantly
improved survival (FIGURES 8 and 9) as well as illness scores (FIGURE 11) in these
studies. LEA-2 blockade by administration of MASP-2 antibody yielded the same result
(FIGURE 12), eliminating secondary or compensatory effects in the knockout-mouse
strain as a possible cause. These favorable outcomes in LEA-2-ablated animals were
associated with a more rapid elimination of N. meningitidis from the blood (FIGURE
10). Also, as described herein, incubation of N. meningitidis with normal human serum
killed N. meningitidis (FIGURE 13).        Addition of a functional monoclonal antibody
specific for human MASP-2 that blocks LEA-2, but not administration of an isotype
control monoclonal antibody, may enhance this killing response.         Yet, this process
depends on lectins and at least a partially functional complement system, as MBL
deficient human serum or heat-inactivated human serum was unable to kill N.
meningitidis (FIGURE 13).          Collectively, these novel findings suggest that N.
meningitidis infections in the presence of a functional complement system are controlled
by a lectin-dependent but LEA-2-independent pathway of complement activation.
        The hypothesis that LEA-i may be the complement pathway responsible for
lectin-dependent killing of N. meningitidis was tested using a serum specimen from a
3MC patient. This patient was homozygous for a nonsense mutation in exon 12 of the
MASP-1/3 gene. As a result, this patient lacked a functional MASP-3 protein, but was
                                            -56-

otherwise complement sufficient (exon 12 is specific for the MASP-3 transcript; the
mutation has no effect on MASP-1 function or expression levels) (see Nat Genet
43(3):197-203 (2011)). Normal human serum efficiently kills N. meningitidis, but heat
inactivated serum deficient in MBL (one of the recognition molecules for the Lectin
pathway) and MASP-3-deficient serum were unable to kill . meningitidis (FIGURE
14).   Thus, LEA-i appears to mediate N. meningitidis killing.          This finding was
confirmed using serum samples from knockout mouse strains.             While complement
containing normal mouse serum readily killed N. meningitidis, MBL-deficient or MASP
1/3-deficient mouse serum was as ineffective as heat-inactivated serum that lacks
functional complement (FIGURE 15). Conversely, MASP-2-deficient serum exhibited
efficient killing of N. meningitidis.
        These findings provide evidence for a hitherto unknown duality in the lectin
pathway by revealing the existence of separate LEA-2 and LEA-1 pathways of lectin
dependent complement activation. In the examples detailed above, LEA-2 and LEA-i
are non-redundant and mediate distinct, functional outcomes.        The data suggest that
certain types of lectin pathway activators (including, but not limited to S. pneumonia)
preferentially initiate complement activation via LEA-2 leading to opsonization, while
others (exemplified by N. meningitidis) preferentially initiate complement activation via
LEA-i and promote cytolytic processes.        The data do not, however, necessarily limit
LEA-2 to opsonization and LEA-1 to cytolytic processes, as both pathways in other
settings can mediate opsonization and/or lysis.
        In the context of lectin-dependent complement activation by N. meningitidis,
LEA-2 and LEA-1 arms appear to compete with each other, as blockade of LEA-2
enhanced LEA-I-dependent lytic destruction of the organism in vitro (FIGURE 15). As
detailed above, this finding can be explained by the increased likelihood of lectin MASP
1 complexes residing in close proximity to lectin MASP-3 complexes in the absence of
MASP-2, which will enhance LEA-I activation and thus promote more effective lysis of
N. meningitides. Because lysis of N. meningitidis is the main protective mechanism in
the naive host, blockade of LEA-2 in vivo increasesN. meningitidis clearance and leads to
enhanced killing.
        While the examples discussed above illustrate opposing effects of LEA-2 and
LEA-i with respect to outcomes following infection with N. meningitidis, there may be
other settings where both LEA-2 and LEA-1 may synergize to produce a certain outcome.
                                            -57-

As detailed below, in other situations of pathological complement activation via lectins
such as those present in PNH, LEA-2- and LEA-1-driven complement activation may
cooperate in a synergistic manner to contribute to the overall pathology of PNH.        In
addition, as described herein, MASP-3 also contributes to the lectin-independent
conversion of factor B and factor D, which can occur in the absence of Ca+*, commonly
leading to the conversion of C3bB to C3bBb and of pro-factor D to factor D, which may
further contribute to the pathology of PNH.
         iii.   Biology and expected functional activity in PNH
         This section describes the inhibitory effects of LEA-2 and LEA-1 blockade on
hemolysis in an in vitro model of PNH. The findings support the utility of LEA-2
blocking agents (including, but not limited to, antibodies that bind to and block the
function of MASP-2) and LEA-1-blocking agents (including, but not limited to,
antibodies that bind to and block the function of MASP- 1-mediated activation of MASP
3, MASP-3, or both) to treat subjects suffering from one or more aspects of PNH, and
also the use of inhibitors of LEA-2 and/or LEA-1, and/or MASP-3-dependent, lectin
independent complement activation (including MASP-2 inhibitors, MASP-3 inhibitors,
and dual- or bispecific MASP-2/MASP-3           or MASP-1/MASP-2 inhibitors, and pan
specific MASP-i/MASP-2/MASP-3 inhibitors) to ameliorate the effects of C3-fragment
mediated extravascular hemolysis in PNH patients undergoing therapy with a C5
inhibitor such as eculizumab.
         iv.    MASP-2 inhibitors to block opsonization and extravascular hemolysis of
                PNH RBCs through the reticuloendothelial system
         As detailed above, PNH patients become anemic owing to two distinct
mechanisms of RBC clearance from circulation: intravascular hemolysis via activation of
the membrane attack complex            (MAC),     and extravascular   hemolysis following
opsonization with C3b and subsequent clearance following complement receptor binding
and uptake by the reticuloendothelial system. The intravascular hemolysis is largely
prevented when a patient is treated with eculizumab.       Because eculizumab blocks the
terminal lytic effector mechanism that occurs downstream of both the complement
initiating activation event as well as the ensuing opsonization, eculizumab does not block
extravascular hemolysis (Risitano A.M. et al., Blood 113:4094-100 (2009)).        Instead,
RBCs that would have undergone hemolysis in untreated PNH patients now can
accumulate activated C3b proteins on their surface, which augments uptake by the
                                             -58-

reticuloendothelial system and enhances their extravascular hemolysis. Thus, eculizumab
treatment effectively diverts RBC disposition from intravascular hemolysis to potential
extravascular hemolysis. As a result, some eculizumab-treated PNH patients remain
anemic. It follows that agents that block complement activation upstream and prevent the
opsonization of PNH RBCs may be particularly suitable to block the extravascular
hemolysis occasionally seen with eculizumab.
         The microbial data presented here suggest that LEA-2 is often the dominant route
for lectin-dependent opsonization.      Furthermore, when lectin-dependent opsonization
(measured as C3b deposition) was assessed on three prototypic lectin activation surfaces
(mannan, FIGURE 19A; zymosan, FIGURE 19B, and S. pneumonia; FIGURE 19C),
LEA-2 appears to be the dominant route for lectin-dependent opsonization under
physiologic conditions (i.e., in the presence of Ca++ wherein all complement pathways are
operational).   Under these experimental conditions, MASP-2-deficient serum (which
lacks LEA-2) is substantially less effective in opsonizing the test surfaces than WT
serum. MASP-1/3-deficient serum (which lacks LEA-1) is also compromised, though
this effect is much less pronounced as compared to serum lacking LEA-2. The relative
magnitude of the contributions of LEA-2 and LEA-i to lectin-driven opsonization is
further illustrated in FIGURES 20A - 20C.              While the alternative pathway of
complement has been reported to support opsonization of lectin activating surfaces in the
absence of lectin pathway or classical pathway (Selander et al., J Clin Invest
116(5):1425-1434 (2006)), the alternative pathway in isolation (measured under Ca**-free
assay conditions) appears substantially less effective than the LEA-2- and LEA-1
initiated processes described herein.         By extrapolation, these data suggest that
opsonization of PNH RBCs may also be preferentially initiated by LEA-2 and, to a lesser
extent, by LEA-I (possibly amplified by the alternative pathway amplification loop),
rather than the result of lectin-independent alternative pathway activation.    Therefore,
LEA-2 inhibitors may be expected to be most effective at limiting opsonization and
preventing extravascular hemolysis in PNH. However, recognition of the fact that lectins
other than MBL, such as ficolins, bind to non-carbohydrate structures such as acetylated
proteins, and that MASP-3 preferentially associates with H-ficolin (Skjoedt et al.,
Immunobiol. 215:921-931, 2010), leaves open the possibility of a significant role for
LEA-i in PNH-associated RBC opsonization as well. Therefore, LEA-I inhibitors are
expected to have additional anti-opsonization effects, and the combination of LEA-i and
                                             -59-

LEA-2 inhibitors is expected to be optimal and mediate the most robust treatment benefit
in limiting opsonization and extravascular hemolysis in PNH patients. This concept is
further supported by opsonization data shown in FIGURE 28: factor D-deficient mouse
serum (which lacks the ability to activate the alternative pathway in fluid phase but has a
functional classical pathway as well as functional LEA-I and LEA-2 pathways) shows no
deficit in opsonization compared to WT serum. Factor B-deficient serum, which lacks
LEA-1, shows reduced opsonization while factor D-deficient serum treated with MASP-2
monoclonal antibody to block LEA-2-mediated complement activation yields a more
robust suppression of opsonization (FIGURE 28).          Importantly, addition of MASP-2
monoclonal antibody to factor B-deficient serum suppressed opsonization more
effectively than either MASP-2 blockade or factor D blockade alone. Thus, LEA-2 and
LEA-i act additively or synergistically to promote opsonization, and a crossreactive or
bispecific LEA-1/LEA-2       inhibitor is expected to be most effective at blocking
opsonization and extravascular hemolysis in PNH.
         v.     Role of MASP-3 inhibitors in PNH
         Using an in vitro model of PNH, we demonstrated that complement activation and
the resulting hemolysis in PNH are indeed initiated by LEA-2 and/or LEA-i activation,
and that it is not an independent function of the alternative pathway. These studies used
mannan-sensitized RBCs of various mouse stains, including RBCs from Crry-deficient
mice (an important negative regulator of the terminal complement pathway in mice) as
well as RBCs from        CD55/CD59-deficient mice, which lack the same complement
regulators that are absent in PNH patients).      When mannan-sensitized Crry-deficient
RBCs were exposed to complement-sufficient human serum, the RBCs effectively
hemolysed at a serum concentration of 3% (FIGURE 21 and 22) while complement
deficient serum (HI: heat-inactivated) was not hemolytic.       Remarkably, complement
sufficient serum where LEA-2 was blocked by addition of MASP-2 antibody had reduced
hemolytic activity, and 6% serum was needed for effective hemolysis.               Similar
observations were made when CD55/CD59-deficient RBCs were tested (FIGURE 24).
Complement-sufficient human serum supplemented with MASP-2 monoclonal antibody
(i.e., serum where LEA-2 is suppressed) was about two-fold less effective than untreated
serum in supporting hemolysis. Furthermore, higher concentrations of LEA-2-blocked
serum (i.e., treated with antiMASP-2 monoclonal antibody) were needed to promote
effective hemolysis of untreated WT RBCs compared to untreated serum (FIGURE 23).
                                            -60-

        Even more surprisingly, serum from a 3MC patient homozygous for a
dysfunctional MASP-3 protein (and hence lacking LEA-I) was completely unable to
hemolyze mannan-sensitized Crry-deficient RBCs (FIGURE 22 and FIGURE 23). A
similar outcome was observed when unsensitized normal RBCs were used: As shown in
FIGURE 23, LEA-1-defective serum isolated from a 3MC patient was completely
ineffective at mediating hemolysis. Collectively, these data indicate that whereas LEA-2
contributes significantly to the intravascular hemolysis response,           LEA-i  is the
predominant complement-initiating pathway leading to hemolysis. Thus, while LEA-2
blocking agents are expected to significantly reduce intravascular hemolysis of RBCs in
PNH patients, LEA-1 blocking agents are expected to have a more profound effect and
largely eliminate complement-driven hemolysis.
        It should be noted that the serum of the LEA-I-deficient 3MC patient used in this
study possessed a diminished but functional alternative pathway when tested under
conventional alternative pathway assay conditions (FIGURE 17). This finding suggests
that LEA-I makes a greater contribution to hemolysis than alternative pathway activity as
conventionally defined in this experimental setting of PNH. By inference, it is implied
that LEA-1-blocking agents will be at least as effective as agents blocking other aspects
of the alternative pathway in preventing or treating intravascular hemolysis in PNH
patients.
        vi.     Role of MASP-2 inhibitors in PNH
        The data presented herein suggest the following pathogenic mechanisms for
anemia in PNH: intravascular hemolysis due to unregulated activation of terminal
complement components and lysis of RBC by formation of MAC, which is initiated
predominantly, though not exclusively, by LEA-1, and extravascular hemolysis caused by
opsonization of RBCs by C3b, which appears to be initiated predominately by LEA-2.
While a discernible role for LEA-2 in initiating complement activation and promoting
MAC formation and hemolysis is apparent, this process appears substantially less
effective than LEA-1-initiated complement activation leading to hemolysis. Thus, LEA
2-blocking agents are expected to significantly reduce intravascular hemolysis in PNH
patients, though this therapeutic activity is expected to be only partial. By comparison, a
more substantial reduction in intravascular hemolysis in PNH patients is expected for
LEA-i -blocking agents.
                                              -61-

        Extravascular hemolysis, a less dramatic, yet equally important mechanism of
RBC destruction that leads to anemia in PNH, is primarily the result of opsonization by
C3b, which appears to be predominantly mediated by LEA-2.            Thus, LEA-2-blocking
agents may be expected to preferentially block RBC opsonization and the ensuing
extravascular hemolysis in PNH.       This unique therapeutic activity of LEA-2-blocking
agents is expected to provide a significant treatment benefit to all PNH patients as no
treatment currently exists for those PNH patients who experience this pathogenic process.
        vii.     LEA-2 inhibitors as adjunct treatment to LEA-I inhibitors or terminal
                 complement blocking agents
        The data presented herein detail two pathogenic mechanisms for RBC clearance
and anemia in PNH which can be targeted, separately or in combination, by distinct
classes of therapeutic agents: the intravascular hemolysis initiated predominantly, though
not exclusively, by LEA-i and thus expected to be effectively prevented by a LEA-1
blocking     agent, and   extravascular   hemolysis   due  to   C3b    opsonization  driven
predominantly by LEA-2, and thus effectively prevented by a LEA-2-blocking agent.
        It is well documented that both intravascular and extravascular mechanisms of
hemolysis lead to anemia in PNH patients (Risitano et al., Blood 113:4094-4100 (2009)).
Therefore, it is expected that a LEA-1-blocking agent that prevents intravascular
hemolysis in combination with a LEA-2 blocking agent that primarily prevents
extravascular hemolysis will be more effective than either agent alone in preventing the
anemia that develops in PNH patients. In fact, the combination of LEA-1- and LEA-2
blocking agents is expected to prevent all relevant mechanisms of complement initiation
in PNH and thus block all symptoms of anemia in PNH.
        It is also known that C5-blocking agents (such as eculizumab) effectively block
intravascular hemolysis but do not interfere with opsonization. This leaves some anti-C5
treated PNH patients with substantial residual anemia due to extravascular hemolysis
mediated by LEA-2 that remains untreated. Therefore, it is expected that a C5-blocking
agent (such as eculizumab) that prevents intravascular hemolysis in combination with a
LEA-2 blocking agent that reduces extravascular hemolysis will be more effective than
either agent alone in preventing the anemia that develops in PNH patients.
        Other agents that block the terminal amplification loop of the complement system
leading to C5 activation and MAC deposition (including, but not limited to agents that
block properdin, factor B or factor D or enhance the inhibitory activity of factor I, factor
                                            -62-

H or other complement inhibitory factors) are also expected to inhibit intravascular
hemolysis. However, these agents are not expected to interfere with LEA-2-mediated
opsonization in PNH patients. This leaves some PNH patients treated with such agents
with substantial residual anemia due to extravascular hemolysis mediated by LEA-2 that
remains untreated. Therefore, it is expected that treatment with such agents that prevent
intravascular hemolysis in combination with a LEA-2-blocking agent that minimizes
extravascular hemolysis will be more effective than either agent alone in preventing the
anemia that develops in PNH patients. In fact, the combination of such agents and a
LEA-2 blocking agent is expected to prevent all relevant mechanisms of RBC destruction
in PNH and thus block all symptoms of anemia in PNH.
        viii.   Use of LEA-I and LEA-2 multiple, bispecific or pan-specific antibodies to
                treat PNH
        As detailed above, the use of a combination of pharmacologic agents that
individually block LEA-i and LEA-2, and thus in combination block all complement
activation events that mediate the intravascular as well as the extravascular hemolysis, is
expected to provide the best clinical outcome for PNH patients. This outcome can be
achieved for example, by co-administration of an antibody that has LEA-1-blocking
activity together with an antibody that has LEA-2-blocking activity.             In some
embodiments, LEA-1- and LEA-2-blocking activities are combined into a single
molecular entity, and that such entity with combined LEA-1- and LEA-2-blocking
activity will effectively block intravascular as well as the extravascular hemolysis and
prevent anemia in PNH. Such an entity may comprise or consist of a bispecific antibody
where one antigen-combining site specifically recognizes MASP-1 and blocks LEA-I and
diminishes LEA-2 and the second antigen-combining site specifically recognizes MASP
2 and further blocks LEA-2. Alternatively, such an entity may consist of a bispecific
monoclonal antibody where one antigen-combining site specifically recognizes MASP-3
and thus blocks LEA-i and the second antigen-combining site specifically recognizes
MASP-2 and blocks LEA-2.          Such an entity may optimally consist of a bispecific
monoclonal antibody where one antigen-combining site specifically recognizes both
MASP-i and MASP-3 and thus blocks LEA-i and diminishes LEA-2 while the second
antigen-combining site specifically recognized MASP-2 and further blocks LEA-2.
Based on the similarities in the overall protein sequence and architecture, it can also be
envisioned that a conventional antibody with two identical binding sites can be developed
                                            -63-

that specifically binds to MASP-1 and to MASP-2 and to MASP-3 in a functional
manner, thus achieving functional blockade of LEA-I and LEA-2. Such an antibody with
pan-MASP inhibitory activity is expected to block both the intravascular as well as the
extravascular hemolysis and thus effectively treat the anemia in PNH patients.
        IV.     MASP INHIBITORY AGENTS
        With the recognition that the lectin pathway of complement is composed of two
major complement activation arms, LEA-1 and LEA-2, and that there also is a lectin
independent complement activation arm, comes the realization that it would be highly
desirable to specifically inhibit one or more of these effector arms that cause a pathology
associated with PNH without completely shutting down the immune defense capabilities
of complement (i.e., leaving the classical pathway intact).          This would leave the
Clq-dependent complement activation system intact to handle immune complex
processing and to aid in host defense against infection.
        i.      Compositions for inhibiting LEA-I-mediated complement activation
        As described herein, the inventors have unexpectedly discovered that activation of
LEA-1, leading to lysis, is MASP-3-dependent.          As further described herein, under
physiological conditions, MASP-3 -dependent LEA-1           activation also contributes to
opsonization, thereby providing an additive effect with LEA-2-mediated complement
activation. As demonstrated in Example 7, in the presence of Ca++, factor D is not
required, as MASP-3 can drive activation of LEA-I in factor D- sera. MASP-3, MASP
1, and HTRA-1 are able to convert pro-factor D to active factor D. Likewise, MASP-3
activation appears, in many instances, to be dependent on MASP-1, since MASP-3 (in
contrast to MASP-1 and MASP-2) is not an auto-activating enzyme and is incapable of
converting into its active form without the help of MASP- I (Zundel, S. et al., J.Imunol.
172: 4342-4350 (2004); Megyeri et al., J. Biol. Chem. 288:8922-8934 (2013).              As
MASP-3 does not autoactivate and, in many instances, requires the activity of MASP-I to
be converted into its enzymatically active form, the MASP-3-mediated activation of the
alternative pathway C3 convertase C3Bb can either be inhibited by targeting the MASP-3
zymogen or already-activated MASP-3, or by targeting MASP-1-mediated activation of
MASP-3, or both, since, in many instances, in the absence of MASP-1 functional activity,
MASP-3 remains in its zymogen form and is not capable of driving LEA-1 through direct
formation of the alternative pathway C3 convertase (C3bBb).
                                            -64-

        Therefore, in one aspect of the invention, the preferred protein component to
target in the development of therapeutic agents to specifically inhibit LEA-i is an
inhibitor of MASP-3 (including inhibitors of MASP-1-mediated MASP-3 activation (e.g.,
a MASP-l inhibitor that inhibits MASP-3 activation)).
        In accordance with the foregoing, in one aspect, the invention provides methods
of inhibiting the adverse effects of LEA-1 (i.e., hemolysis and opsonization) in a subject
suffering from PNH, or at risk for developing PNH, comprising administering to the
subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a MASP-3 inhibitory
agent    effective  to   inhibit  MASP-3-dependent       complement   activation   and   a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        MASP-3 inhibitory agents are administered in an amount effective to inhibit
MASP-3-dependent complement activation in a living subject suffering from, or at risk
for developing, PNH.       In the practice of this aspect of the invention, representative
MASP-3 inhibitory agents include:        molecules that inhibit the biological activity of
MASP-3, including molecules that inhibit at least one or more of the following: lectin
MASP-3-dependent activation of factor B, lectin MASP-3-dependent activation of pro
factor D, MASP-3-dependent, lectin-independent activation of factor B, and MASP-3
dependent, lectin-independent activation of pro-factor D (such as small-molecule
inhibitors, MASP-3 antibodies and fragments thereof, or blocking peptides which interact
with MASP-3 or interfere with a protein-protein interaction), and molecules that decrease
the expression of MASP-3 (such as MASP-3 antisense nucleic acid molecules, MASP-3
specific RNAi molecules and MASP-3 ribozymes).           A MASP-3 inhibitory agent may
effectively block MASP-3 protein-to-protein interactions, interfere with MASP-3
dimerization or assembly, block Ca_* binding, interfere with the MASP-3 serine protease
active site, or reduce MASP-3 protein expression, thereby preventing MASP-3 from
activating LEA-1-mediated, or lectin-independent, complement activation. The MASP-3
inhibitory agents can be used alone as a primary therapy or in combination with other
therapeutics as an adjuvant therapy to enhance the therapeutic benefits of other medical
treatments, as further described herein.
        In one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent specifically binds to a portion
of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8) with a binding affinity of at least 10 times greater than to
other components in the complement system.           In another embodiment, a MASP-3
inhibitory agent specifically binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8) with a binding
                                             -65-

affinity of at least 100 times greater than to other components in the complement system.
In one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent specifically binds to the serine protease
domain of MASP-3 (aa 450-711 of SEQ ID NO:8) and inhibits MASP-3-dependent
complement activation, with the proviso that the inhibitory agent does not bind to the
serine protease domain of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10), and it does not bind to the serine
protease domain of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5).                In one embodiment, the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 monoclonal antibody, or fragment thereof, that specifically
binds to MASP-3.
        In another embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent specifically binds to a
portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO: 10) with a binding affinity of at least 10 times greater
than to other components in the complement system, and inhibits MASP-1-mediated
activation of MASP-3. In another embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent specifically
binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10) with a binding affinity of at least 100
times greater than to other components (i.e., polypeptides, or fragments thereof) in the
complement system, and inhibits MASP-1-mediated activation of MASP-3.            In some
embodiments, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent specifically binds to the serine protease
domain of MASP-1 (aa 449-694 of SEQ ID NO:10) and inhibits MASP-1-mediated
activation of MASP-3, with the proviso that the inhibitory agent does not bind to the
serine protease domain of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5), and it does not bind to the serine
protease domain of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8).                In one embodiment, the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a MASP- 1 monoclonal antibody, or fragment thereof, that specifically
binds to MASP-1 and inhibits MASP-1-mediated activation of MASP-3.               In some
embodiments, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent that binds to MASP-1 inhibits MASP-1
mediated activation of MASP-3 and further inhibits MASP-1-mediated maturation of
factor D.
        In another embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent binds to a portion of
MASP-3 (SEQ ID ON:8) and also binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10), with
the proviso that the inhibitory agent does not bind to MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5), or MAp 19
(SEQ ID NO:3). In one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent binds to a portion of
MASP-3 (SEQ ID ON:8) and also binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10), with
the proviso that the inhibitory agent does not bind to MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) or MAp 19
(SEQ ID NO:3). In one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent binds to a portion of
MASP-3 (SEQ ID ON:8) and also binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10), with
                                              -66-

the proviso that the inhibitory agent does not bind to MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5), MAp19
(SEQ ID NO:3), or MAp44 (SEQ ID NO:1 ), thereby providing allowing for a lower
effective dose for inhibiting MASP-3-dependent complement activation due to the lack of
binding to MAp44, which is present at a high concentration in human serum.
        In one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a MASP-l/MASP-3 dual
inhibitory agent that binds to an epitope within the amino acid region that is conserved
between MASP-1 and MASP-3, such as the CUBI-CCP2 domain (aa 25-432 of SEQ ID
NO:10), as illustrated in FIGURES 3-5. In one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory
agent is a MASP-1/MASP-3 dual inhibitory agent that binds to an epitope within the
amino acid region that is conserved between MASP-1 and MASP-3, with the proviso that
the inhibitory agent does not bind to MAp44, such as the CCP domain (aa 367-432 of
SEQ ID NO:10). In another embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a bispecific
inhibitory agent, such as a bispecific monoclonal antibody, that specifically binds to an
epitope on the MASP-3 protein (SEQ ID NO:8) and an epitope on the MASP-1 protein
(SEQ ID NO:10). In some embodiments, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a bispecific
monoclonal antibody that binds to the serine protease domain of MASP-1 (aa 449-694 of
SEQ ID NO: 10) and also binds to a domain in the serine protease of MASP-3 (aa 450
711 of SEQ ID NO:8).
        The binding affinity of the MASP-3 inhibitory agents can be determined using a
suitable binding assay.
        The inhibition of MASP-3-dependent complement activation is characterized by
at least one of the following changes in a component of the complement system that
occurs as a result of administration of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent in accordance with the
methods of the invention:       the inhibition of LEA-1-mediated complement activation
(inhibition of hemolysis and/or opsonization); inhibition of lectin-independent conversion
of factor B; inhibition of lectin-independent conversion of factor D, inhibition of MASP
3 serine protease substrate-specific cleavage, the reduction of hemolysis (measured, for
example as described in Example 5) or the reduction of C3 cleavage and C3b deposition
(measured, for example, as described in Example 4 and Example 11).
        In some embodiments, the MASP-3 inhibitory agents selectively inhibit MASP-3
dependent complement activation (i.e., LEA-1-mediated complement activation and/or
lectin-independent conversion of factor B and/or lectin-independent conversion of factor
D), leaving the Clq-dependent complement activation system functionally intact.
                                             -67-

        In some embodiments, the MASP-3 inhibitory agents are antibodies, or fragments
thereof, including MASP-3 antibodies and MASP-3 binding fragments thereof, MASP-1
antibodies and fragments thereof, natural and synthetic peptides, or small-molecules. In
some embodiments, the MASP-3 inhibitory agents are small-molecule protease inhibitors
that are selective for MASP-1, or selective for MASP-3, or selective for MASP-1 and
MASP-3.
         ii.      Compositions for inhibiting activation of LEA-2
        As described herein, LEA-2-mediated complement activation is MASP-2
dependent, leading to opsonization and/or lysis.          Therefore, the preferred protein
component to target in the development of therapeutic agents to specifically inhibit the
LEA-2 lectin-dependent complement system is MASP-2.             Several proteins have been
shown to bind to, or interact with MASP-2 through protein-to-protein interactions. For
example, MASP-2 is known to bind to, and form calcium-dependent complexes with, the
lectin proteins MBL, H-ficolin and L-ficolin and collectin- 11.     Ma Y., et al., J Innate
Immun. Epub Dec 4 (2012).         Each MASP-2/lectin complex has been shown to activate
complement through the MASP-2-dependent cleavage of proteins C4 and C2 (Ikeda, K.,
et al., J. Biol. Chem. 262:7451-7454, (1987); Matsushita, M., et al., J. Exp. Med.
176:1497-2284, (2000); Matsushita, M., et al., J. Immunol. 168:3502-3506, (2002)).
Studies have shown that the CUB1-EGF domains of MASP-2 are essential for the
association of MASP-2 with MBL (Thielens, N.M., et al., J. Immunol. 166:5068, (2001)).
It has also been shown that the CUBlEGFCUBII domains mediate dimerization of
MASP-2, which is required for formation of an active MBL complex (Wallis, R., et al., J.
Biol. Chem. 275:30962-30969, 2000).          Therefore, MASP-2 inhibitory agents can be
identified that bind to or interfere with MASP-2 target regions known to be important for
MASP-2-dependent complement activation.
        In accordance with the foregoing, in one aspect, the invention provides methods
of inhibiting the adverse effects of LEA-2-mediated complement activation in a subject
suffering from PNH, or at risk for developing PNH, comprising administering to the
subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory
agent     effective  to  inhibit   MASP-2-dependent       complement    activation  and  a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        MASP-2 inhibitory agents are administered in an amount effective to inhibit
MASP-2-dependent LEA-2 in a living subject suffering from, or at risk for developing
                                              -68-

PNH. In the practice of this aspect of the invention, representative MASP-2 inhibitory
agents include: molecules that inhibit the biological activity of MASP-2 (such as small
molecule inhibitors, MASP-2 antibodies or blocking peptides that interact with MASP-2
or interfere with a protein-protein interaction), and molecules that decrease the expression
of MASP-2 (such as MASP-2 antisense nucleic acid molecules, MASP-2 specific RNAi
molecules and MASP-2 ribozymes), thereby preventing MASP-2 from activating LEA-2.
        A MASP-2 inhibitory agent may effectively block MASP-2 protein-to-protein
interactions, interfere with MASP-2 dimerization or assembly, block Ca++ binding,
interfere with the MASP-2 serine protease active site, or may reduce MASP-2 protein
expression, thereby preventing MASP-2 from activating LEA-2. The MASP-2 inhibitory
agents can be used alone as a primary therapy or in combination with other therapeutics
as an adjuvant therapy to enhance the therapeutic benefits of other medical treatments, as
further described herein.
        In one embodiment, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent specifically binds to a portion
of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) with a binding affinity of at least 10 times greater than to
other antigens in the complement system.            In another embodiment, the MASP-2
inhibitory agent specifically binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) with a binding
affinity of at least 100 times greater than to other antigens in the complement system. In
one embodiment, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent specifically binds to at least one of (i) the
CCP1-CCP2 domain (aa 300-431 of SEQ ID NO:5) or the serine protease domain of
MASP-2 (aa 445-682 of SEQ ID NO:5) and inhibits MASP-2-dependent complement
activation, with the proviso that the inhibitory agent does not bind to the seine protease
domain of MASP- 1 (SEQ ID NO:10), and it does not bind to the serine protease domain
of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8).           In one embodiment, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent is a
MASP-2 monoclonal antibody, or fragment thereof that specifically binds to MASP-2.
        The binding affinity of the MASP-2 inhibitory agent can be determined using a
suitable binding assay.
        The inhibition of MASP-2-dependent complement activation is characterized by
at least one of the following changes in a component of the complement system that
occurs as a result of administration of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in accordance with the
methods of the invention:         the inhibition of the generation or production           of
MASP-2-dependent complement-activation-system products C4b, C3a, C5a and/or C5b-9
(MAC) (measured, for example, as described in Example 2 of US Patent No. 7,919,094),
                                              -69-

the reduction of C4 cleavage and C4b deposition (measured, for example as described in
Example 8 or Example 9), or the reduction of C3 cleavage and C3b deposition (measured,
for example, as described in Example 11).
        In some embodiments, the MASP-2 inhibitory agents selectively inhibit MASP-2
complement activation (i.e., LEA-2), leaving the Clq-dependent complement activation
system functionally intact.
        In some embodiments, the MASP-2 inhibitory agents are antibodies, or fragments
thereof, including MASP-2 antibodies and MASP-2 binding fragments thereof, natural
and synthetic peptides, or small-molecules.         In some embodiments, the MASP-2
inhibitory agents are small-molecule protease inhibitors that are selective for MASP-2.
        iii.    Compositions for inhibiting LEA-1-mediated complement activation and
                LEA-2-mediated complement activation
        In another aspect, the invention provides methods for inhibiting the adverse
effects of LEA-i and inhibiting the adverse effects of LEA-2 in a subject suffering from
one or more aspects of PNH, or at risk for developing PNH.
        In one embodiment, this aspect of the invention is directed to a method of
increasing the survival of red blood cells in a subject suffering from PNH, comprising
administering to the subject a composition comprising an amount of at least one of a
MASP-1 inhibitory agent and/or a MASP-3 inhibitory agent effective to increase the
survival of red blood cells.
        In one embodiment, the composition comprises a MASP-1 inhibitory agent. In
one embodiment, the MASP-1 inhibitory agent inhibits MASP-3-mediated complement
activation and also inhibits MASP-2-mediated complement activation.
        In one embodiment, the composition comprises a MASP-3 inhibitory agent. In
one embodiment, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent inhibits at least one of: lectin MASP-3
dependent activation of factor B; lectin MASP-3-dependent activation of factor D;
MASP-3 -dependent, lectin-independent       activation of factor B; and/or MASP-3
dependent, lectin-independent, activation of factor D.
        In one embodiment, the composition comprises a MASP- 1 inhibitory agent and a
MASP-3 inhibitory agent.
        In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering to the subject
a composition comprising a MASP-2 inhibitory agent.
                                           -70-

        In another embodiment, this aspect of the invention comprises administering to a
subject suffering from PNH a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a
MASP-2 inhibitory agent effective to inhibit MASP-2-dependent complement activation
and an amount of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent effective to inhibit MASP-3-dependent
complement activation and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        In some embodiments, the composition comprises a single agent that inhibits both
LEA-i and LEA-2 (i.e., a dual MASP-2/MASP-3 inhibitory agent, a dual MASP
1/MASP-2 inhibitory agent, a bispecific MASP-2/MASP-3 inhibitory agent, a bispecific
MASP-1/MASP-2 inhibitory agent, or a pan-MASP-1/2/3 inhibitory agent or a trispecific
MASP-1/2/3 inhibitory agent).        In some embodiments, the composition comprises a
combination of LEA-1 and LEA-2 inhibitory agents, for example, a combination of dual
inhibitory agents plus a single inhibitory agent, a combination of bispecific inhibitory
agents plus a single inhibitory agent, or a combination of any of the MASP-1, MASP-2
and/or MASP-3 inhibitory agents as described herein that in combination inhibit both
LEA-I and LEA-2, as further described herein.
        In one embodiment, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for
inhibiting both LEA-i and LEA-2, comprising at least one MASP-3 inhibitory agent and
at least one MASP-2 inhibitory agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In one
embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a combination of a first
molecule that is a MASP-3 inhibitory agent and a second molecule that is a MASP-2
inhibitory agent. In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
single molecular entity that includes activity as a MASP-3 inhibitory agent and activity as
a MASP-2 inhibitory agent (i.e., an inhibitory agent that inhibits both MASP-2-mediated
LEA-2 activation and MASP-3-mediated LEA-i activation).             In one embodiment, the
inhibitory agent is a MASP-2/MASP-3 dual inhibitory agent that binds to an epitope
within an amino acid region that is conserved between MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) and
MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8), such as the seine protease domain, for example the N-terminal
region of the beta chain (e.g., the first 150 aa of the N-terminal region of the beta chain of
SEQ ID N05 and SEQ ID NO:8:), as shown in FIGURES 4, 6 and 7C.                         In one
embodiment, the inhibitory agent is a bispecific inhibitory agent, such as a bispecific
monoclonal antibody, that specifically binds to an epitope on the MASP-2 protein (SEQ
ID NO:5) and an epitope on the MASP-3 protein (SEQ ID NO:8). In some embodiments,
the inhibitory agent is a bispecific monoclonal antibody that binds to at least one of the
                                              -71-

CCP1-CCP2 domain of MASP-2 (aa 300-431 of SEQ ID NO:5) or the seine protease
domain of MASP-2 (aa 445-682 of SEQ ID NO:5) and also binds to an epitope in the
serine protease of MASP-3 (aa 450-711 of SEQ ID NO:8).
         In another embodiment, the invention provides a composition for inhibiting both
LEA-i and LEA-2, comprising an inhibitory agent that inhibits both MASP-2-mediated
LEA-2 activation and MASP-1-mediated activation of MASP-3, thereby inhibiting
MASP-3-mediated LEA-i          activation (and optionally also inhibiting the MASP-1
mediated maturation of factor D). In one embodiment, the inhibitory agent is a MASP
1/MASP-2 dual inhibitory agent that binds to an epitope within an amino acid region that
is conserved between MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10) and MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5), such as
the serine protease domain, as shown in FIGURES 4, 6 and 7A. In one embodiment, the
inhibitory agent is a bispecific inhibitory agent, such as a bispecific monoclonal antibody,
that specifically binds to an epitope on the MASP-1 protein (SEQ ID NO:10) and an
epitope on the MASP-2 protein (SEQ ID NO:5). In some embodiments, the inhibitory
agent is a bispecific monoclonal antibody that binds to the serine protease domain of
MASP-1 (aa 449-694 of SEQ ID NO:10) and also binds to at least one of the CCP1
CCP2 domain of MASP-2 (aa 300-431 of SEQ ID NO:5) or the serine protease domain of
MASP-2 (aa 445-682 of SEQ ID NO:5).
         In another embodiment, the invention provides a composition for inhibiting both
LEA-I and LEA-2, comprising an inhibitory agent that inhibits MASP-2-mediated LEA
2 activation, MASP-3-mediated LEA-i activation by directly binding to MASP-3 and
also inhibits MASP-1-mediated activation of MASP-3, thereby inhibiting MASP-3
mediated LEA-1 activation (and optionally also inhibiting the MASP-1-mediated
maturation of factor D).      In one embodiment, the inhibitory agent is a pan-MASP
inhibitor that binds to an amino acid region that is conserved between MASP-I (SEQ ID
NO:10), MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) and MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8), for example a
conserved region in the CUBI-EGF-CUB2 domain, as shown in FIGURES 4 and 5. As
illustrated in FIGURES 4 and 5, there are numerous patches of identity shared between
MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 in the CUBI-EGF-CUBII domains, thereby allowing for
the generation of pan-specific MASP antibodies. In some embodiments, the pan-specific
MASP antibody can bind to an epitope within the CUB2 domain of MASP-1 (aa 185-296
of SEQ ID NO: 10), MASP-2 (aa 184-295 of SEQ ID NO:5) and MASP-3 (aa 185-296 of
SEQ ID NO:8). It is noted that a pan-specific MASP inhibitor that binds to CUBI-EGF
                                             -72-

of MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 would also bind to MAp19 and MAp44, therefore the
effective therapeutic dosage of such an inhibitor would be adjusted to a higher level to
compensate for this binding. It is further noted that a pan-specific MASP inhibitor that
binds to the CUBII domain of MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 would also bind to
MAp44, therefore the effective therapeutic dosage of such an inhibitor would be adjusted
to a higher level to compensate for this binding.
        In one embodiment, the inhibitory agent is a trispecific MASP-1/2/3 inhibitor that
binds to an epitope on the MASP-1 protein (SEQ ID NO:10), an epitope on the MASP-2
protein (SEQ ID NO:5) and an epitope on the MASP-3 protein (SEQ ID NO:8). In some
embodiments, the inhibitory agent is a trispecific monoclonal antibody that binds to the
serine protease domain of MASP-1 (aa 449-694 of SEQ ID NO:10), binds to at least one
of the CCP1-CCP2 domain of MASP-2 (aa 300-431 of SEQ ID NO:5) or the serine
protease domain of MASP-2 (aa 445-682 of SEQ ID NO:5) and also binds to an epitope
in the serine protease of MASP-3 (aa 450-711 of SEQ ID NO:8).
        Exemplary inhibitory agents for inhibiting LEA-1, LEA-2 or LEA-i and LEA-2
are described below in TABLE 2.
                                            -73-

TABLE 2: MASP Inhibitory Agents
Type of MASP inhibitor Inhibitor   Cross-          Assay for          Therapeutic
                       Binding     reactivity*     inhibitory         Utility
                       domain(s)                   activity
MASP-3 specific        MASP-3      Binds to MASP-  Inhibition of      Inhibit LEA-I
                       serine      3; not to MASP- MASP-3 serine      mediated
                       protease    1; MASP-2;      protease           complement
                       domain      MAp44 or        substrate-specific activation
                       (aa 450-711 MAp19           cleavage; LEA-I    (inhibit lysis and
                       of SEQ ID                   inhibition, assay  opsonization)
                       NO:8)                       for inhibition of
                                                   factor D
                                                   activation;
                                                   inhibition of
                                                   hemolysis of non
                                                   human RBCs by
                                                   human serum
MASP-2 specific        MASP-2      Binds to MASP-  Inhibition of      Inhibit LEA-2
                       CCP1-CCP2   2; not to MASP- MASP-2-specific    mediated
                       domain (aa  1; MASP-3;      protease           complement
                       300-431 of  MAP19 or        substrate-specific activation
                       SEQ ID      MAp44           cleavage, LEA-2    (inhibit
                       NO:5); or                   inhibition         opsonization
                       MASP-2                                         and/or lysis)
                       serine
                       protease
                       domain (aa
                       445-682 of
                       SEQ ID
                       NO:5)
MASP-1 specific        MASP-1      Binds to MASP-  Inhibition of      Inhibit LEA-I and
                       serine      1; not to MASP- MASP-1-specific    LEA-2mediated
                       protease    2, MASP-3,      protease           complement
                       domain      MAp44 or        substrate-specific activation
                       (aa449-694  MAp19           cleavage; LEA-I    (inhibit lysis
                       of SEQ ID                   and LEA2           and/or
                       NO:10)                      inhibition,        opsonization)
                                                   Assay for
                                                   inhibition of
                                                   factor D
                                                   activation; assay
                                                   for restoration of
                                                   AP- 1 activity in
                                                   factor D depleted
                                                   serum
                                                   supplemented
                                                   with pro-factor D
MASP-2/MASP-3 dual     Region of   Binds MASP-2    Assay for MASP-    Inhibit LEA-I and
inhibitor              serine      and MASP-3;     2- and MASP-3      LEA-2-mediated
(one antibody binds to protease    not MASP-1,     protease           complement
conserved region)      domain      MAp44, or       substrate-specific activation
                       conserved   MAp 19.         cleavage,          (inhibit lysis
                       between                     inhibition of      and/or
                                      -74-

                        MASP-2                        LEA-I and LEA-     opsonization)
                        and MASP-                     2
                        3, especially
                        the N
                        terminal
                        region of
                        beta chain
                        (first 150aa)
MASP-1/3 dual           MASP-1/3      Binds MASP-1    Assay for MASP-    Inhibit LEA-I
inhibitor that excludes CCP2          and MASP-3;     3 and MASP-1       and LEA-2
MAp44                   domain (aa    not MAp44,      protease           mediated
                        367-432 of    MASP-2, or      substrate-specific complement
                        SEQ ID        MAp19           cleavage and       activation
                        NO: 10)                       inhibition of      (inhibit lysis
                                                      factor D           and/or
                                                      activation, LEA-I  opsonization)
                                                      and LEA-2
                                                      inhibition
MASP-1/3 dual           MASP-1/3      Binds MASP-l,   Assay for MASP-    Inhibit LEA-I
inhibitor that includes CUBI-CCPl     MASP-3, and     3 and MASP-1       and LEA-2
MAp44                   domain        MAp44; not      protease           mediated
                        (aa25-363 of  MASP-2 or       substrate-specific complement
                        SEQ ID        MAp19           cleavage and       activation (inhibit
                        NO: 10)                       inhibition of      lysis and/or
                                                      factor D           opsonization)
                                                      activation, LEA-I
                                                      and LEA-2
                                                      inhibition
MASP-1/2 dual           Region of     Binds MASP-1    Assay for          Inhibit LEA-I-and
inhibitor               serine        and MASP-2;     inhibition of      LEA-2-mediated
                        protease      not MASP-3,     MASP-1 and         complement
                        domain        MAp19 or        MASP-2 serine      activation
                        conserved     MAp44           protease           (inhibit lysis
                        between                       substrate-specific and/or
                        MASP-1                        cleavage; LEA-I    opsonization)
                        and MASP-                     and LEA-2
                        2                             inhibition
MASP-1/2/3 pan          Conserved     In addition to  Assay for MASP-    Inhibit LEA-I
inhibitor               region of     MASP-1/2/3      1-, MASP-2- and    and LEA-2
                        CUBI-EGF-     would bind to   MASP-3-specific    mediated
                        CUB2,         MAp44, and      protease           complement
                        especially    possibly Map 19 substrate-specific activation
                        CUB2                          cleavage and       (inhibit lysis
                        domain                        inhibition of      and/or
                        (common                       factor D           opsonization)
                        interaction                   activation;
                        site)                         inhibition of
                                                      LEA- 1 and LEA
                                                      2
                                         -75-

MASP-2/MASP-3        MASP-2-     Binds MASP-2   Assay for MASP-    Inhibit LEA-I
bispecific inhibitor specific    and MASP-3;    2- and MASP-3-     and LEA-2
                     binding to  not            specific protease  mediated
                     CCP1-CCP2   MASP-1,        substrate-specific complement
                     (aa 300-431 MAp44 or       cleavage,          activation
                     of SEQ ID   MAp19          inhibition of      (inhibit lysis
                     NO:5); or                  LEA-I and LEA-     and/or
                     MASP-2                     2                  opsonization)
                     serine
                     protease
                     domain (aa
                     445-682 of
                     SEQ ID
                     NO:5)
                     and MASP
                     3-specific
                     binding to
                     serine
                     protease
                     domain (aa
                     450-711 of
                     SEQ ID
                     NO:8)
MASP-1/MASP-2        MASP-1      Binds to MASP- Assay for          Inhibit LEA-I
bispecific inhibitor serine      1 and to MASP- inhibition of      and LEA-2
                     protease    2; not MASP-3, MASP-l- and        mediated
                     domain      MAp19 or       MASP-2-specific    complement
                     (aa449-694  MAp44          serine protease    activation
                     of SEQ ID                  substrate-specific (inhibit lysis
                     NO:10), and                cleavage; LEA-I    and/or
                     MASP-2-                    and LEA-2          opsonization)
                     specific                   inhibition
                     binding to
                     CCP1-CCP2
                     (aa 300-431
                     of SEQ ID
                     NO:5); or
                     MASP-2
                     serine
                     protease
                     domain (aa
                     445-682 of
                     SEQ ID
                     NO:5)
MASP-1/MASP-3        MASP-1      Binds to MASP- Assay for MASP-    Inhibit LEA-I
bispecific           serine      1 and MASP-3;  1 and MASP-3-      and LEA-2
                     protease    not to MASP-2, protease           mediated
                     domain      MAp44 or       substrate-         complement
                     (aa449-694  MAp19          specificeleavage   activation
                     of SEQ ID                  and inhibition of  (inhibit lysis
                     NO:10) and                 factor D           and/or
                     MASP-3-                    activation, LEA-I  opsonization)
                     specific                   and LEA-2
                                    -76-

                             binding to                       inhibition
                             serine
                             protease
                             domain (aa
                             450-711 of
                             SEQ ID
                             NO:8)
MASP-1/MASP-                 MASP-1        Binds to MASP-     Assay for MASP-      Inhibit LEA-I
2/MASP-3                     serine         1 and MASP-2       1-, MASP-2- and     and LEA-2
trispecific                  protease       and MASP-3;       MASP-3-              mediated
                             domain,       not MAp 19 or      protease             complement
                             MASP-2         MAp44             substrate-specific   activation
                             serine                           cleavage and         (inhibit lysis
                             protease                         inhibition of        and/or
                             domain or                        factor D             opsonization)
                             CCP-CCP2                         activation,
                             domain and                       inhibition of
                             MASP-3                           LEA-I and LEA
                             serine                           2
                             protease
                             domain
         *With regard to cross-reactivity column as set forth in TABLE 2, the designated
MASP inhibitor binds to the inhibitor binding domain with a binding affinity of at least
10 times greater (e.g., at least 20 times, at least 50 times or at least 100 times greater) than
to the other complement components (i.e., polypeptides or fragments thereof) listed as
"not" binding.
         In some embodiments, the composition comprises a combination of LEA-I and
LEA-2 inhibitory agents, for example, a combination of single inhibitory agents as
described above and shown in TABLE 2.                For example, in one embodiment, the
composition comprises a combination of a MASP-1 antibody and a MASP-2 antibody. In
one embodiment, the composition comprises a combination of a MASP-1 antibody and a
MASP-3 antibody. In one embodiment, the composition comprises a combination of a
MASP-2 antibody and a MASP-3 antibody.                 In one embodiment, the composition
comprises a combination of a MASP-1, and MASP-2 and a MASP-3 antibody. In some
embodiments, the methods of the invention comprise administration of a single
composition comprising a combination of inhibitory agents. In other embodiments, the
methods of the invention comprise co-administering separate compositions.
         In some embodiments, the compositions comprise a combination of a dual
inhibitory agent plus a single inhibitory agent (i.e., a MASP-2/3 dual inhibitor plus a
MASP-1 inhibitor; a MASP-1/3 dual inhibitor plus a MASP-2 inhibitor; or a MASP-1/2
                                               -77-

dual inhibitor plus a MASP-3 inhibitor).       In other embodiments, the methods of the
invention comprise co-administering separate compositions comprising a dual inhibitor
and a single inhibitor.
         In some embodiments, the compositions comprise a combination of a bispecific
inhibitory agent plus a single inhibitory agent (i.e., a MASP-2/3 bispecific inhibitor plus a
MASP-1 inhibitor; a MASP-1/3 bispecific inhibitor plus a MASP-2 inhibitor; or a
MASP-1/2 bispecific inhibitor plus a MASP-3 inhibitor).         In other embodiments, the
methods of the invention comprise co-administering separate compositions comprising a
bispecific inhibitor and a single inhibitor.
         In accordance with various embodiments of the invention, it is noted that MASP-3
inhibitory agents and/or MASP-2 inhibitory agents and/or MASP-1 inhibitory agents
would be used to clear the target protein from the plasma as compared to a C5 antibody
which must localize to the site of action.
         V.      MASP ANTIBODIES
         In some embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the MASP inhibitory agent
comprises a MASP antibody (e.g., a MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 antibody) that
inhibits at least one of the LEA-i and/or LEA-2 complement activation pathways. The
MASP antibodies useful in this aspect of the invention include polyclonal, monoclonal or
recombinant antibodies derived from any antibody producing mammal and may be
multispecific    (i.e., bispecific or trispecific), chimeric, humanized, fully human,
anti-idiotype, and antibody fragments. Antibody fragments include Fab, Fab', F(ab) 2 ,
F(ab') 2 , Fv fragments, scFv fragments and single-chain antibodies as further described
herein.
         MASP antibodies can be screened for the ability to inhibit the LEA-1 or LEA
2-dependent complement activation system using the assays described herein. Several
MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 antibodies have been described in the literature and
some have been newly generated, some of which are listed below in TABLE 3. These
exemplary MASP antibodies can be screened for the ability to inhibit the LEA-1- and/or
LEA-2-dependent complement activation system using the assays described herein. For
example, as described in Examples 11-13 herein, anti-rat MASP-2 Fab2 antibodies have
been identified that block MASP-2-dependent complement activation.               As further
described in Example 14, fully human MASP-2 scFv antibodies have been identified that
                                             -78-

 block MASP-2-dependent complement activation. As further described in Example 15,
 MASP-3 antibodies have been generated.           Once a MASP antibody is identified that
 functions as an inhibitor of LEA-] or LEA-2, it can be used in a pharmaceutical
 composition as descrbed herein, and it can also be used to generate bispecific and
 trispecific inhibitory agents, as set forth in TABLE 2 and further described herein (see
 e.g., Example 8).
            TABLE 3: MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 SPECIFIC ANTIBODIES
TARGET                ANTIGEN              ANTIBODY TYPE       REFERENCE
MASP-2                Recombinant          Rat Polyclonal      Peterson, S.V., et a]., Mol.
                      MASP-2                                   Immunol. 37:803-811, 2000
MASP-2                Recombinant          Rat MoAb            Moller-Kristensen, M., et al.,
                      human                (subclass IgGI)     J. ofininunol.Methods
                      CCPI/2-SP                                282:159-167, 2003
                      fragment (MoAb
                      8B5)
MASP-2                Recombinant          Rat MoAb            Moller-Kristensen, M., et al.,
                      human MAp 19         (subclass IgGI)     J. ofjIninunol. Methods
                      (MoAb 6G12)                              282:159-167, 2003
                      (cross-reacts with
                      MASP-2)
MASP-2                hMASP-2              Mouse MoAb (S/P)    Peterson, S.V., et al., Mol.
                                           Mouse MoAb          Ininol.35:409, April 1998
                                           (N-term)
MASP-2                hMASP-2              rat MoAb:           WO 2004/106384
                      (CCP1-CCP2-SP        Nimoab101,
                      domain               produced by
                                           hybridoma cell line
                                           03050904
                                           (ECACC)
                                               -79-

TARGET ANTIGEN        ANTIBODY TYPE       REFERENCE
MASP-2 hMASP-2 (full- murine MoAbs:       WO 2004/106384
       length his-    NimoAb104,
       tagged)        produced by
                      hybridoma cell line
                      M0545YM035
                      (DSMZ)
                      NimoAb108,
                      produced by
                      hybridoma cell line
                      M0545YM029
                      (DSMZ)
                      NimoAb109
                      produced by
                      hybridoma cell line
                      M0545YM046
                      (DSMZ)
                      NimoAb1 10
                      produced by
                      hybridoma cell line
                      M0545YM048
                      (DSMZ)
MASP-2 Rat MASP-2     MASP-2 Fab2         Examples 11-12
       (full-length)  antibody fragments
MASP-2 hMASP-2 (full- Fully human scFv    Example 14
       length)        clones
MASP-1 hMASP-1 (full- Mouse MoAbs:        Terai I. et al., Clin Exp
       length)        MoaAbslE2 and       Immunol 110:317-323
                      2B1 1 produced by   (1997);
                      hybridoma line 1E2  MoAb 1E2: Commercially
                      and 2B 11 (do not   available from Hycult
                      cross-react with    Biotech Cat#HM2092
                      MASP-2). Both AbS   MoAb2B 11: commercially
                      recognize the heavy available from Hycult
                      chain common to     Biotech: Cat#HM2093
                      both MASP-1 and
                      MASP-3
                          -80-

TARGET ANTIGEN        ANTIBODY TYPE      REFERENCE
MASP-1 hMASP-1 (full- Mouse MoAb 4C2     Endo M. et al., Nephrol Dial
       length)                           Transplant 13:1984-1990
                                         (1998)
MASP-1 hMASP-1 (full- MASP-1 chicken     Example 15
       length)        abs
MASP-3 hMASP-3 (full- Mouse MoAbs:       Skjoedt et al.,
       length)        MoAb-7D8;MoAb-     Iiiunobiology
                      7B7;MoAb-8B3;      215(11):921-31 (2010)
                      and MoAb-5H3
                      MoAb-7D8 and
                      mAb-5H3 are
                      MASP-3-specific,
                      others cross-react
                      with MASP- 1
MASP-3 hMASP-3 (full- Rat MoAb 38:12-3,  Moller-Kristensen et al., Int
       length)        Does not recognize Innunol 19:141 (2007);
                      MASP-1             Commercially available
                                         from Hycult Biotech: Cat
                                         #HM2216
MASP-3 hMASP-3 (full- MASP-3 chicken     Example 15
       length)        abs
                          -81-

        i.      MASP antibodies with reduced effector function
        In some embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the MASP antibodies
described herein have reduced effector function in order to reduce inflammation that may
arise from the activation of the classical complement pathway.         The ability of IgG
molecules to trigger the classical complement pathway has been shown to reside within
the Fc portion of the molecule (Duncan, A.R., et al., Nature 332:738-740 (1988)).       IgG
molecules in which the Fc portion of the molecule has been removed by enzymatic
cleavage are devoid of this effector function (see Harlow, Antibodies: A Laboratory
Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York, 1988).           Accordingly, antibodies
with reduced effector function can be generated as the result of lacking the Fc portion of
the molecule by having a genetically engineered Fc sequence that minimizes effector
function, or being of either the human IgG2 or IgG4 isotype.
        Antibodies with reduced effector function can be produced by standard molecular
biological manipulation of the Fe portion of the IgG heavy chains as described in Jolliffe
et al.,   Int'l  Rev.    Immunol. 10:241-250,      (1993),   and   Rodrigues    et al.,   J.
Jininunol. 151:6954-6961, (1998). Antibodies with reduced effector function also include
human IgG2 and IgG4 isotypes that have a reduced ability to activate complement and/or
interact with Fe receptors (Ravetch, J.V., et al., Annu. Rev. Immunol. 9:457-492, (1991);
Isaacs, J.D., et al., J. Immunol. 148:3062-3071,       1992; van de Winkel, J.G., et al.,
 ininunol. Today 14:215-221, (1993)). Humanized or fully human antibodies specific to
human MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 (including dual, pan, bispecific or trispecific
antibodies) comprised of IgG2 or IgG4 isotypes can be produced by one of several
methods known to one of ordinary skilled in the art, as described in Vaughan, T.J., et al.,
Nature Biotechnical 16:535-539, (1998).
        ii.     Production of MASP antibodies
        MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 antibodies can be produced using MASP-1,
MASP-2 or MASP-3 polypeptides (e.g., full-length MASP-1, MASP-1 or MASP-3) or
using antigenic MASP-1, 2 or 3 epitope-bearing peptides (e.g., a portion of the MASP-2
polypeptide). Immunogenic peptides may be as small as five amino acid residues. For
example, the MASP-2 polypeptide including the entire amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
NO:5 may be used to induce MASP-2 antibodies useful in the method of the invention.
Particular MASP domains known to be involved in protein-protein interactions, such as
the CUBI, and CUBI-EGF domains, as well as the region encompassing the
                                           -82-

serine-protease active site, for example, as set forth in TABLE 2, may be expressed as
recombinant polypeptides using methods well known in the art and used as antigens. In
addition, peptides comprising a portion of at least 6 amino acids of the MASP-1
polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:10), or of the MASP-2 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:5) or of the
MASP-3 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:8) are also useful to induce MASP-1, MASP-2 or
MASP-3 antibodies, respectively. The MASP peptides and polypeptides used to raise
antibodies may be isolated as natural polypeptides, or recombinant or synthetic peptides
and catalytically inactive recombinant polypeptides.       Antigens useful for producing
MASP antibodies also include fusion polypeptides, such as fusions of a MASP
polypeptide or a portion thereof with an immunoglobulin polypeptide or with
maltose-binding protein. The polypeptide immunogen may be a full-length molecule or a
portion thereof.    If the polypeptide portion is hapten-like, such portion may be
advantageously joined or linked to a macromolecular carrier (such as keyhole limpet
hemocyanin (KLH), bovine serum albumin (BSA) or tetanus toxoid) for immunization.
        iii.   Polyclonal antibodies
        Polyclonal antibodies against MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 can be prepared by
immunizing an animal with MASP-1,            MASP-2      or MASP-3 polypeptide or an
immunogenic portion thereof using methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the
art.    See, for example, Green et al.,       "Production of Polyclonal Antisera,"      in
 ininunochemicalProtocols (Manson, ed.). The immunogenicity of a MASP polypeptide
can be increased through the use of an adjuvant, including mineral gels, such as
aluminum hydroxide or Freund's adjuvant (complete or incomplete), surface active
substances such as lysolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions, oil emulsions, KLH and
dinitrophenol. Polyclonal antibodies are typically raised in animals such as horses, cows,
dogs, chicken, rats, mice, rabbits, guinea pigs, goats, or sheep. Alternatively, a MASP
antibody useful in the present invention may also be derived from a subhuman primate.
General techniques for raising diagnostically and therapeutically useful antibodies in
baboons may be found, for example, in Goldenberg et al., International Patent Publication
No. WO 91/11465, and in Losman, M.J., et al., Int. J. Cancer 46:310, (1990).          Sera
containing immunologically active antibodies are then produced from the blood of such
immunized animals using standard procedures well known in the art.
                                           -83-

         iv.    Monoclonal antibodies
         In some embodiments, the LEA-2 inhibitory agent is a MASP-2 monoclonal
antibody and/or the LEA-i inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 monoclonal antibody or a
MASP-1 monoclonal antibody. As described above, in some embodiments, MASP-1,
MASP-2 and MASP-3 monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, being directed against a
single MASP-1,       MASP-2 or MASP-3         epitope.    As used herein, the modifier
"monoclonal" indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a
substantially homogenous population of antibodies, and is not to be construed as
requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. Monoclonal antibodies
can be obtained using any technique that provides for the production of antibody
molecules by continuous cell lines in culture, such as the hybridoma method described by
Kohler, G., et al., Nature 256:495, (1975), or they may be made by recombinant DNA
methods (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567 to Cabilly). Monoclonal antibodies may
also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson,
T., et al., Nature 352:624-628, (1991), and Marks, J.D., et al., J Mol. Biol. 222:581-597,
(1991).    Such antibodies can be of any immunoglobulin class including IgG, IgM, IgE,
IgA, IgD and any subclass thereof.
         For example, monoclonal antibodies can be obtained by injecting a suitable
mammal (e.g., a BALB/c mouse) with a composition comprising a MASP-1 polypeptide,
a MASP-2 polypeptide or a MASP-3 polypeptide, or portion thereof.                  After a
predetermined period of time, splenocytes are removed from the mouse and suspended in
a cell culture medium. The splenocytes are then fused with an immortal cell line to form
a hybridoma. The formed hybridomas are grown in cell culture and screened for their
ability to produce a monoclonal antibody against MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3.            (See
also Current Protocols in Immunology, Vol. 1., John Wiley & Sons, pages 2.5.1-2.6.7,
1991.)
         Human monoclonal antibodies may be obtained through the use of transgenic
mice that have been engineered to produce specific human antibodies in response to
antigenic challenge. In this technique, elements of the human immunoglobulin heavy and
light chain locus are introduced into strains of mice derived from embryonic stem cell
lines that contain targeted disruptions of the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain
and light chain loci. The transgenic mice can synthesize human antibodies specific for
human antigens, such as the MASP-2 antigens described herein, and the mice can be used
                                            -84-

to produce human MASP-2 antibody-secreting hybridomas by fusing B-cells from such
animals to suitable myeloma cell lines using conventional Kohler-Milstein technology.
Methods for obtaining human antibodies from transgenic mice are described, for
example, by Green, L.L., et al., Nature Genet. 7:13, 1994; Lonberg, N., et al., Nature
368:856, 1994; and Taylor, L.D., et al., Int. Imun. 6:579, 1994.
        Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and purified from hybridoma cultures by a
variety of well-established techniques.          Such isolation techniques include affinity
chromatography      with Protein-A       Sepharose,   size-exclusion   chromatography,    and
ion-exchange chromatography (see, for example, Coligan at pages 2.7.1-2.7.12 and
pages 2.9.1-2.9.3; Baines et al., "Purification of Immunoglobulin G (IgG)," in Methods in
MolecularBiology, The Humana Press, Inc., Vol. 10, pages 79-104, 1992).
        Once produced, polyclonal, monoclonal or phage-derived antibodies are first
tested for specific MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 binding or, where desired, dual MASP
1/3, MASP-2/3 or MASP-1/2 binding. Methods for determining whether an antibody
binds to a protein antigen and/or the affinity for an antibody to a protein antigen are
known in the art. For example, the binding of an antibody to a protein antigen can be
detected and/or quantified using a variety of techniques such as, but not limited to,
Western blot, dot blot, plasmon surface resonance method (e.g., BlAcore system;
Pharmacia Biosensor AB, Uppsala, Sweden and Piscataway, NJ), or enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assays (ELISA). See, e.g., Harlow and Lane (1988) "Antibodies: A
Laboratory Manual" Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N. Y.;
Benny K. C. Lo (2004) "Antibody Engineering: Methods and Protocols," Humana Press
(ISBN: 1588290921); Borrebaek (1992) "Antibody Engineering, A Practical Guide,"
W.H. Freeman and Co., NY; Borrebaek (1995) "Antibody Engineering,"               2 "d Edition,
Oxford University Press, NY, Oxford; Johne et al. (1993), Immunol. Meth. 160:191-198;
Jonsson et al. (1993) Ann. Biol. Clin. 51: 19-26; and Jonsson et al. (1991) Biotechniques
11:620-627. See also, U.S. Patent No. 6,355,245.
        The affinity of MASP monoclonal antibodies can be readily determined by one of
ordinary skill in the art (see, e.g., Scatchard, A., NY Acad. Sci. 51:660-672, 1949). In one
embodiment, the MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 monoclonal antibodies useful for the
methods of the invention bind to MASP-1, MASP-2, or MASP-3 with a binding affinity
of <1 00 nM, preferably <10 nM and most preferably <2 nM.
                                               -85-

         Once antibodies are identified that specifically bind to MASP-1, MASP-2 or
MASP-3, the MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 antibodies are tested for the ability to
function as a LEA-i inhibitory agent or a LEA-2 inhibitory agent in one of several
functional assays, for example as described in TABLE 2.            For example, antibodies
identified that specifically bind to MASP-2 are tested for the ability to function as a LEA
2 inhibitory agent in one of several assays, such as, for example, as described in TABLE
2 (e.g., a lectin-specific C4 cleavage assay (such as the assay described in Example 8 or
Example 9), or a C3b deposition assay (such as the assay described in Example 4 or
Example 11)).      As a further example, antibodies identified that specifically bind to
MASP-1 or MASP-3 are tested for the ability to function as a LEA-I inhibitory agent in
one of several assays, such as, for example, as described in TABLE 2 (e.g., the reduction
of hemolysis, measured, for example as described in Example 5, or the reduction of C3
cleavage and C3b deposition, measured, for example, as described in Example 4 and
Example 11).
         v.      Chimeric/humanized antibodies
         Monoclonal antibodies useful in the method of the invention include chimeric
antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and/or light chain is identical with or
homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species
or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of the chain(s)
is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from
another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass, as well as fragments
of such antibodies (U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567, to Cabilly; and Morrison, S.L., et al.,
Proc.Nat'l Acad. Sci. USA 81:6851-6855, (1984)).
         One form of a chimeric antibody useful in the invention is a humanized
monoclonal MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 antibody. Humanized forms of non-human
(e.g., murine) antibodies are chimeric antibodies, which contain minimal sequence
derived from non-human immunoglobulin.            Humanized monoclonal antibodies are
produced by transferring the non-human (e.g., mouse) complementarity determining
regions (CDR), from the heavy and light variable chains of the mouse immunoglobulin
into a human variable domain.         Typically, residues of human antibodies are then
substituted in the framework regions of the non-human counterparts.             Furthermore,
humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody
or in the donor antibody.       These modifications are made to further refine antibody
                                            -86-

performance. In general, the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at
least one, and typically two, variable domains in which all or substantially all of the
hypervariable loops correspond to those of a non-human immunoglobulin and all or
substantially all of the Fv framework regions are those of a human immunoglobulin
sequence. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least a portion of an
immunoglobulin constant region (Fc), typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For
further details, see Jones, P.T., et al., Nature 321:522-525, (1986); Reichmann, L., et al.,
Nature 332:323-329, (1988); and Presta, Curr. Op. Struct. Biol. 2:593-596, (1992).
         The humanized antibodies useful in the invention include human monoclonal
antibodies including at least a MASP-1, MASP-2, or MASP-3 binding CDR3 region. In
addition, the Fc portions may be replaced so as to produce IgA or IgM as well as human
IgG antibodies. Such humanized antibodies will have particular clinical utility because
they will specifically recognize human MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 but will not evoke
an immune response in humans against the antibody itself. Consequently, they are better
suited for in vivo administration in humans, especially when repeated or long-term
administration is necessary.
         Techniques for producing humanized monoclonal antibodies are also described,
for example, by Jones, P.T., et al., Nature 321:522, (1986); Carter, P., et al., Proc. Nat'l.
Acad. Sci. USA 89:4285, (1992); Sandhu, J.S., Crit.Rev. Biotech. 12:437, (1992); Singer,
I.I., et al., J. Immun. 150:2844, (1993); Sudhir (ed.), Antibody Engineering Protocols,
Humana Press, Inc., (1995); Kelley, "Engineering Therapeutic Antibodies," in Protein
Engineering: Principles and Practice, Cleland et al. (eds.), John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
pages 399-434, (1996); and by U.S. Patent No. 5,693,762, to Queen, 1997. In addition,
there are commercial entities that will synthesize humanized antibodies from specific
murine antibody regions, such as Protein Design Labs (Mountain View, CA).
         vi.      Recombinant antibodies
         MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 antibodies can also be made using recombinant
methods. For example, human antibodies can be made using human immunoglobulin
expression libraries (available for example, from Stratagene, Corp., La Jolla, CA) to
produce fragments of human antibodies (VH, VL, Fv, Factor D, Fab or F(ab') 2 ). These
fragments are then used to construct whole human antibodies using techniques similar to
those for producing chimeric antibodies.
                                              -87-

        vii.     Anti-idiotype antibodies
        Once MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 antibodies are identified with the desired
inhibitory activity, these-antibodies can be used to generate anti-idiotype antibodies that
resemble a portion of MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 using techniques that are well
known in the art.       See, e.g., Greenspan, N.S., et al., FASEB.J. 7:437, (1993).     For
example, antibodies that bind to MASP-2 and competitively inhibit a MASP-2 protein
interaction required for complement activation can be used to generate anti-idiotypes that
resemble the MBL binding site on MASP-2 protein and therefore bind and neutralize a
binding ligand of MASP-2 such as, for example, MBL.
        viii.    Immunoglobulin fragments
        The MASP-2 and MASP-3 inhibitory agents useful in the method of the invention
encompass not only intact immunoglobulin molecules but also the well known fragments
including Fab, Fab', F(ab) 2 , F(ab') 2 and Fv fragments, scFv fragments, diabodies, linear
antibodies, single-chain antibody molecules and multispecific (e.g., bispecific and
trispecific) antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
        It is well known in the art that only a small portion of an antibody molecule, the
paratope, is involved in the binding of the antibody to its epitope (see, e.g., Clark, W.R.,
The Experimental Foundationsof Modern Immunology, Wiley & Sons, Inc., NY, 1986).
The pFc' and Fc regions of the antibody are effectors of the classical complement
pathway but are not involved in antigen binding. An antibody from which the pFc' region
has been enzymatically cleaved, or which has been produced without the pFc' region, is
designated an F(ab') 2 fragment and retains both of the antigen binding sites of an intact
antibody. An isolated F(ab') 2 fragment is referred to as a bivalent monoclonal fragment
because of its two antigen binding sites. Similarly, an antibody from which the Fc region
has been enzymatically cleaved, or which has been produced without the Fe region, is
designated a Fab fragment, and retains one of the antigen binding sites of an intact
antibody molecule.
        Antibody fragments can be obtained by proteolytic hydrolysis, such as by pepsin
or papain digestion of whole antibodies by conventional methods. For example, antibody
fragments can be produced by enzymatic cleavage of antibodies with pepsin to provide a
5S fragment denoted F(ab') 2 . This fragment can be further cleaved using a thiol reducing
agent to produce 3.5S Fab' monovalent fragments. Optionally, the cleavage reaction can
be performed using a blocking group for the sulfhydryl groups that result from cleavage
                                             -88-

of disulfide linkages. As an alternative, an enzymatic cleavage using pepsin produces
two monovalent Fab fragments and an Fc fragment directly.             These methods are
described, for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,331,647 to Goldenberg; Nisonoff, A., et al.,
Arch. Biochen. Biophys. 89:230, (1960); Porter, R.R., Biochem. J 73:119, (1959);
Edelman, et al., in M1ethods in Enzymology 1:422, Academic Press, (1967); and by
Coligan at pages 2.8.1-2.8.10 and 2.10.-2.10.4.
         In some embodiments, the use of antibody fragments lacking the Fc region are
preferred to avoid activation of the classical complement pathway which is initiated upon
binding Fe to the Fey receptor. There are several methods by which one can produce a
monoclonal antibody that avoids Fey receptor interactions. For example, the Fc region of
a monoclonal antibody can be removed chemically using partial digestion by proteolytic
enzymes (such as ficin digestion), thereby generating, for example, antigen-binding
antibody fragments such as Fab or F(ab) 2 fragments (Mariani, M., et al., Mol.
Immunol. 28:69-71, (1991)).     Alternatively, the human Y4 IgG isotype, which does not
bind Fey receptors, can be used during construction of a humanized antibody as described
herein. Antibodies, single chain antibodies and antigen-binding domains that lack the Fc
domain can also be engineered using recombinant techniques described herein.
         ix.     Single-chain antibody fragments
         Alternatively, one can create single peptide chain binding molecules specific for
MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 in which the heavy and light chain Fv regions are
connected.      The Fv fragments may be connected by a peptide linker to form a
single-chain antigen binding protein (scFv). These single-chain antigen binding proteins
are prepared by constructing a structural gene comprising DNA sequences encoding the
VH and VL domains which are connected by an oligonucleotide. The structural gene is
inserted into an expression vector, which is subsequently introduced into a host cell, such
as E. coli. The recombinant host cells synthesize a single polypeptide chain with a linker
peptide bridging the two V domains.       Methods for producing scFvs are described for
example, by Whitlow, et al., "Methods: A Companion to Methods in Enzymology" 2:97,
(1991); Bird, et al., Science 242:423, (1988); U.S. Patent No. 4,946,778, to Ladner; Pack,
P., et al., Bio/Technology 11:1271, (1993).
         As an illustrative example, a MASP-3-specific scFv can be obtained by exposing
lymphocytes to MASP-3 polypeptide in vitro and selecting antibody display libraries in
                                             -89-

phage or similar vectors (for example, through the use of immobilized or labeled
MASP-3 protein or peptide).      Genes encoding polypeptides having potential MASP-3
polypeptide binding domains can be obtained by screening random peptide libraries
displayed on phage or on bacteria such as E. coli. These random peptide display libraries
can be used to screen for peptides which interact with MASP-3. Techniques for creating
and screening such random peptide display libraries are well known in the art (U.S.
Patent No. 5,223,409, to Lardner; U.S. Patent No. 4,946,778, to Ladner; U.S. Patent
No. 5,403,484, to Lardner; U.S. Patent No. 5,571,698, to Lardner; and Kay et al., Phage
Display of Peptides and Proteins Academic Press, Inc., 1996) and random peptide
display libraries and kits for screening such libraries are available commercially, for
instance from CLONTECH Laboratories, Inc. (Palo Alto, Calif), Invitrogen Inc. (San
Diego, Calif), New England Biolabs, Inc. (Beverly, Mass.), and Pharmacia LKB
Biotechnology Inc. (Piscataway, N.J.).
        Another form of a MASP-3 antibody fragment useful in this aspect of the
invention is a peptide coding for a single complementarity-determining region (CDR) that
binds to an epitope on a MASP-3 antigen and inhibits MASP-3-dependent complement
activation (i.e., LEA-1).  Another form of a MASP-1 antibody fragment useful in this
aspect of the invention is a peptide coding for a single complementarity-determining
region (CDR) that binds to an epitope            on a MASP-1       antigen and inhibits
MASP-3-dependent complement activation (i.e., LEA-1). Another form of a MASP-2
antibody fragment useful in this aspect of the invention is a peptide coding for a single
complementarity-determining region (CDR) that binds to an epitope on a MASP-2
antigen and inhibits MASP-2-dependent complement activation (i.e., LEA-2).
        CDR peptides ("minimal recognition units") can be obtained by constructing
genes encoding the CDR of an antibody of interest.         Such genes are prepared, for
example, by using the polymerase chain reaction to synthesize the variable region from
RNA of antibody-producing        cells (see, for example, Larrick et al., Methods: A
Companion to Methods in Enzymology 2:106, (1991);              Courtenay-Luck,  "Genetic
Manipulation of Monoclonal Antibodies," in Monoclonal Antibodies: Production,
Engineering and Clinical Application, Ritter et al. (eds.), page 166, Cambridge
University Press, (1995); and Ward et al., "Genetic Manipulation and Expression of
Antibodies," in Monoclonal Antibodies: Principles and Applications, Birch et al. (eds.),
page 137, Wiley-Liss, Inc., 1995).
                                            -90-

        The MASP antibodies described herein are administered to a subject in need
thereof to inhibit LEA-1, LEA-2 or a combination of LEA-I and LEA-2 complement
activation. In some embodiments, the MASP inhibitory agent is a high-affinity human or
humanized monoclonal MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3 antibody with reduced effector
function.
        x.      Bispecific antibodies
        The MASP-2 and MASP-3 inhibitory agents useful in the method of the invention
encompass multispecific (i.e., bispecific and trispecific) antibodies. Bispecific antibodies
are monoclonal, preferably human or humanized, antibodies               that have binding
specificities for at least two different antigens.     As described above and shown in
TABLE 2, in one embodiment, the method comprises the use of a bispecific antibody
comprising a binding specificity for MASP-2 (e.g., binding to at least one of CCP1-CCP2
or serine protease domain of MASP-2) and a binding specificity for MASP-3 (e.g.,
binding to the serine protease domain of MASP-3). In another embodiment, the method
comprises the use of a bispecific antibody comprising a binding specificity for MASP-1
(e.g., binding to the serine protease domain of MASP-1) and a binding specificity for
MASP-2 (e.g., binding to at least one of CCP1-CCP2 or serine protease domain of
MASP-2). In another embodiment, the method comprises the use of a bispecific antibody
comprising a binding specificity for MASP-1 (e.g., binding to the seine protease domain
of MASP-1) and a binding specificity for MASP-3 (e.g., binding to the serine protease
domain of MASP-3).        In another embodiment, the method comprises the use of a
trispecific antibody comprising a binding specificity for MASP-1 (e.g., binding to the
serine protease domain of MASP-1), a binding specificity for MASP-2 (e.g., binding to at
least one of CCP1-CCP2 or serine protease domain of MASP-2) and a binding specificity
for MASP-3 (e.g., binding to the seine protease domain of MASP-3).
        Methods for making bispecific antibodies are within the purview of those skilled
in the art. Traditionally, the recombinant production of bispecific antibodies is based on
the co-expression of two immunoglobulin heavy-chain/light-chain pairs, where the two
heavy chains have different specificities (Milstein and Cuello, Nature 305:537-539
(1983)). Antibody variable domains with the desired binding specificities (antibody
antigen combining sites) can be fused to immunoglobulin constant domain sequences.
The fusion preferably is with an immunoglobulin heavy-chain constant domain, including
at least part of the hinge, CH2 , and CH3 regions. DNAs encoding the immunoglobulin
                                            -91-

heavy-chain fusions and, if desired, the immunoglobulin light chain, are inserted into
separate expression vectors, and are co-transfected into a suitable host organism.        For
further details of illustrative currently known methods for generating bispecific antibodies
see, e.g., Suresh et al., Methods in Enzynology 121:210 (1986); W096/2701 1; Brennan et
al., Science 229:81 (1985); Shalaby et al., . Exp. Med. 175:217-225 (1992); Kostelny et
al., J. Immunol. 148(5):1547-1553 (1992); Hollinger et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA
90:6444-6448 (1993); Gruber et al., J. Immunol. 152:5368 (1994); and Tutt et al., J.
Immunol.     147:60 (1991).         Bispecific   antibodies also   include cross-linked    or
heteroconjugate antibodies.        Heteroconjugate antibodies may be made using any
convenient cross -linking methods. Suitable crosslinking agents are well known in the
art, and are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,676,980, along with a number of cross-linking
techniques.
         Various techniques for making and isolating bispecific antibody fragments
directly from recombinant cell culture have also been described. For example, bispecific
antibodies have been produced using leucine zippers. (See, e.g., Kostelny et al.
J.Immunol. 148(5):1547-1553 (1992)). The "diabody" technology described by Hollinger
et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 90:6444-6448 (1993), has provided an alternative
mechanism for making bispecific antibody fragments. The fragments comprise a heavy
chain variable domain (VH) connected to a light-chain variable domain (VL) by a linker
which is too short to allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain.
Accordingly, the VH and VL domains of one fragment are forced to pair with the
complementary VL and VH domains of another fragment, thereby forming two antigen
binding sites. Bispecific diabodies, as opposed to bispecific whole antibodies, may also
be particularly useful because they can be readily constructed and expressed in E. coli.
Diabodies (and many other polypeptides such as antibody fragments) of appropriate
binding specificities can be readily selected using phage display (W094/13804) from
libraries. If one arm of the diabody is to be kept constant, for instance, with a specificity
directed against antigen X, then a library can be made where the other arm is varied and
an antibody of appropriate specificity selected.
         Another strategy for making bispecific antibody fragments by the use of single
chain Fv (scFv) dimers has also been reported. (See, e.g., Gruber et al. .J. Immunol.,
152:5368 (1994)).      Alternatively, the antibodies can be "linear antibodies" as described
in, e.g., Zapata et al., Protein Eng. 8(10):1057-1062 (1995).        Briefly described, these
                                               -92-

antibodies comprise a pair of tandem Factor D segments (VH-CHI-VH-CHI) which form a
pair of antigen binding regions. Linear antibodies can be bispecific or monospecific. The
methods of the invention also embrace the use of variant forms of bispecific antibodies
such as the tetravalent dual variable domain immunoglobulin (DVD-Ig) molecules
described in Wu et al., Nat Biotechnol 25:1290-1297 (2007). The DVD-Ig molecules are
designed such that two different light chain variable domains (VL) from two different
parent antibodies are linked in tandem directly or via a short linker by recombinant DNA
techniques, followed by the light chain constant domain. Methods for generating DVD
Ig molecules from two parent antibodies are further described in, e.g., W008/024188 and
W007/024715, the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety.
        VI.     NON-PEPTIDE INHIBITORS
        In some embodiments, the MASP-3 or MASP-2 inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 or
a MASP-2 or a MASP-1 inhibitory peptide or a non-peptide inhibitor of MASP-3, or of
MASP-2 or of MASP-1.        Non-peptide MASP inhibitory agents may be administered to
the   subject systemically,    such   as by    intra-arterial, intravenous,  intramuscular,
subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or by oral administration. The MASP
inhibitory agent may be administered periodically over an extended period of time for
treatment or control of a chronic condition, or may be by single or repeated
administration in the period before, during or following acute trauma or injury.
        VII. PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS AND DELIVERY
METHODS
        Dosing
        In another aspect, the invention provides compositions for inhibiting the adverse
effects of MASP-3-dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from a
hemolytic disease, such as PNH, comprising administering to the subject a composition
comprising an amount of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent effective to inhibit MASP-3
dependent complement activation and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.         In some
embodiments, the method further comprises administering a composition comprising a
MASP-2 inhibitory agent.        The MASP-3 and MASP-2 inhibitory agents can be
administered to a subject in need thereof, at therapeutically effective doses to treat or
ameliorate conditions associated with MASP-3-dependent complement activation (LEA
                                            -93-

1), and optionally also MASP-2-dependent             complement activation (LEA-2).       A
therapeutically effective dose refers to the amount of the MASP-3 inhibitory agent, or a
combination of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent and a MASP-2 inhibitory agent sufficient to
result in amelioration of symptoms of the condition.
         Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of MASP-3 and MASP-2 inhibitory agents can
be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures employing experimental animal
models. Using such animal models, the NOAEL (no observed adverse effect level) and
the MED (the minimally effective dose) can be determined using standard methods. The
dose ratio between NOAEL and MED effects is the therapeutic ratio, which is expressed
as the ratio NOAEL/MED.         MASP-3 inhibitory agents and MASP-2 inhibitory agents
that exhibit large therapeutic ratios or indices are most preferred. The data obtained from
the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosages
for use in humans. The dosage of the MASP-3 inhibitory agent and MASP-2 inhibitory
agent preferably lies within a range of circulating concentrations that include the MED
with little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the
dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized.
         For any compound formulation, the therapeutically effective dose can be
estimated using animal models. For example, a dose may be formulated in an animal
model to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the MED.
Quantitative levels of the MASP-3 inhibitory agent or MASP-2 inhibitory agent in
plasma may also be measured, for example, by high performance liquid chromatography.
         In addition to toxicity studies, effective dosage may also be estimated based on
the amount of target MASP protein present in a living subject and the binding affinity of
the MASP-3 or MASP-2 inhibitory agent.
         It has been reported that MASP-1 levels in normal human subjects is present in
serum in levels in the range of from 1.48 to 12.83 pg/mL (Terai I. et al, Clin Exp
Imnunol 110:317-323 (1997); Theil et al., Clin. Exp. Immunol. 169:38 (2012)).           The
mean serum MASP-3 concentrations in normal human subjects has been reported to be in
the range of about 2.0 to 12.9 ptg/mL (Skjoedt M ct al., Immunobiology 215(11):921-31
(2010); Degn et al., J. hnniunol Methods, 361-37 (2010); Csuka et al., Mot. Immunol.
54:271 (2013).     It has been shown that MASP-2 levels in normal human subjects is
present in serum in low levels in the range of 500 ng/mL, and MASP-2 levels in a
particular subject can be determined using a quantitative assay for MASP-2 described in
                                              -94-

Moller-Kristensen M., et al., J Inmunol. Methods 282:159-167 (2003) and Csuka et al.,
Mol. Immunol. 54:271 (2013).
        Generally,   the dosage of administered compositions          comprising    MASP-3
inhibitory agents or MASP-2 inhibitory agents varies depending on such factors as the
subject's age, weight, height, sex, general medical condition, and previous medical
history. As an illustration, MASP-3 inhibitory agents or MASP-2 inhibitory agents (such
as MASP-3 antibodies, MASP-1 antibodies or MASP-2 antibodies), can be administered
in dosage ranges from about 0.010 to 100.0 mg/kg, preferably 0.010 to 10 mg/kg,
preferably 0.010 to 1.0 mg/kg, more preferably 0.010 to 0.1 mg/kg of the subject body
weight. In some embodiments, MASP-2 inhibitory agents (such as MASP-2 antibodies)
are administered     in dosage   ranges   from about preferably      0.010 to 10 mg/kg,
preferably 0.010 to 1.0 mg/kg, more preferably 0.010 to 0.1 mg/kg of the subject body
weight. In some embodiments, MASP-1 inhibitory agents (such as MASP-1 antibodies)
or MASP-3 inhibitory agents (such as MASP-3 antibodies) are administered in dosage
ranges from about 0.010 to 100.0 mg/kg, preferably 0.010 to 10 mg/kg, preferably 0.010
to 1.0 mg/kg, more preferably 0.010 to 0.1 mg/kg of the subject body weight.
        Therapeutic    efficacy  of MASP-3       inhibitory   compositions,   optionally     in
combination     with   MASP-2    inhibitory   compositions,    or of MASP-1        inhibitory
compositions, optionally in combination with MASP-2 inhibitory compositions, and
methods of the present invention in a given subject, and appropriate dosages, can be
determined in accordance with complement assays well known to those of skill in the art.
Complement generates numerous specific products. During the last decade, sensitive and
specific assays have been developed and are available commercially for most of these
activation products, including the small activation fragments C3a, C4a, and C5a and the
large activation fragments iC3b, C4d, Bb, and sC5b-9.         Most of these assays utilize
monoclonal antibodies that react with new antigens (neoantigens) exposed on the
fragment, but not on the native proteins from which they are formed, making these assays
very simple and specific. Most rely on ELISA technology, although radioimmunoassay
is still sometimes used for C3a and C5a.          These latter assays measure both the
unprocessed fragments and their 'desArg' fragments, which are the major forms found in
the circulation. Unprocessed fragments and C5ad      sArg are rapidly cleared by binding to
cell surface receptors and are hence present in very low concentrations, whereas    C 3 adesArg
does not bind to cells and accumulates in plasma.          Measurement of C3a provides a
                                            -95-

sensitive, pathway-independent indicator of complement activation. Alternative pathway
activation can be assessed by measuring the Bb fragment and/or measurement of factor D
activation.    Detection of the fluid-phase product of membrane attack pathway
activation, sC5b-9, provides evidence that complement is being activated to completion.
Because both the lectin       and classical    pathways generate the same      activation
products, C4a and C4d, measurement of these two fragments does not provide any
information about which of these two pathways has generated the activation products.
        The inhibition of MASP-3-dependent complement activation is characterized by
at least one of the following changes in a component of the complement system that
occurs as a result of administration of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent in accordance with the
methods of the invention:      the inhibition of LEA-1-mediated complement activation
(inhibition of hemolysis and opsonization); inhibition of MASP-3 serine protease
substrate-specific cleavage, the reduction of hemolysis (measured, for example as
described in Example 5) or the reduction of C3 cleavage and C3b deposition (measured,
for example, as described in Example 4 or Example 11).
        The inhibition of MASP-2-dependent complement activation is characterized by
at least one of the following changes in a component of the complement system that
occurs as a result of administration of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in accordance with the
methods of the invention: the inhibition of the generation or production of MASP-2
dependent complement activation system products C4b, C3a, C5a and/or C5b-9 (MAC)
(measured, for example, as described in measured, for example, as described in Example
2 of US Patent No. 7,919,094), the reduction of C4 cleavage and C4b deposition
(measured, for example as described in Example 8 or Example 9), or the reduction of C3
cleavage and C3b deposition (measured, for example, as described in Example 11).
        i.      Pharmaceutical carriers and delivery vehicles
        In general, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent compositions and the MASP-2 inhibitory
agent compositions of the present invention, or compositions comprising a combination
of MASP-2 and MASP-3 inhibitory agents, may be combined with any other selected
therapeutic agents, are suitably contained in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The
carrier is non-toxic, biocompatible and is selected so as not to detrimentally affect the
biological activity of the MASP-3 inhibitory agent or the MASP-2 inhibitory agent (and
any other therapeutic agents combined therewith).            Exemplary pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers for peptides are described in U.S. Patent No. 5,211,657 to Yamada.
                                            -96-

The MASP antibodies useful in the invention, as described herein, may be formulated
into preparations in solid, semi-solid, gel, liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets,
capsules, powders, granules, ointments, solutions, depositories, inhalants and injections
allowing for oral, parenteral or surgical administration. The invention also contemplates
local administration of the compositions by coating medical devices and the like.
        Suitable carriers for parenteral delivery via injectable, infusion or irrigation and
topical delivery include distilled water, physiological phosphate-buffered saline, normal
or lactated Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution, Hank's solution, or propanediol.        In
addition, sterile, fixed oils may be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this
purpose any biocompatible oil may be employed including synthetic mono- or
diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of
injectables.    The carrier and agent may be compounded as a liquid, suspension,
polymerizable or non-polymerizable gel, paste or salve.
        The carrier may also comprise a delivery vehicle to sustain (i.e., extend, delay or
regulate) the delivery of the agent(s) or to enhance the delivery, uptake, stability or
pharmacokinetics of the therapeutic agent(s). Such a delivery vehicle may include, by
way of non-limiting example, microparticles, microspheres, nanospheres or nanoparticles
composed of proteins, liposomes, carbohydrates, synthetic organic compounds, inorganic
compounds, polymeric or copolymeric hydrogels and polymeric micelles.                Suitable
hydrogel and micelle delivery systems include the PEO:PHB:PEO copolymers and
copolymer/cyclodextrin complexes disclosed in WO 2004/009664 A2 and the PEO and
PEO/cyclodextrin       complexes   disclosed   in U.S.    Patent Application     Publication
No. 2002/0019369 Al.        Such hydrogels may be injected locally at the site of intended
action, or subcutaneously or intramuscularly to form a sustained release depot.
        Compositions of the present invention may be formulated for delivery
subcutaneously, intra-muscularly, intravenously, intra-arterially or as an inhalant.
        For intra-articular delivery, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent or the MASP-2
inhibitory agent may be carried in above-described liquid or gel carriers that are
injectable, above-described sustained-release delivery vehicles that are injectable, or a
hyaluronic acid or hyaluronic acid derivative.
        For oral administration of non-peptidergic agents, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent or
MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be carried in an inert filler or diluent such as sucrose,
cornstarch, or cellulose.
                                             -97-

        For topical administration, the MASP-3 inhibitory agent or MASP-2 inhibitory
agent may be carried in ointment, lotion, cream, gel, drop, suppository, spray, liquid or
powder, or in gel or microcapsular delivery systems via a transdermal patch.
        Various nasal and pulmonary delivery systems, including aerosols, metered-dose
inhalers, dry powder inhalers, and nebulizers, are being developed and may suitably be
adapted for delivery of the present invention in an aerosol, inhalant, or nebulized delivery
vehicle, respectively.
        For intrathecal (IT) or intracerebroventricular (ICV) delivery, appropriately sterile
delivery systems (e.g., liquids; gels, suspensions, etc.) can be used to administer the
present invention.
        The compositions of the present invention may also include biocompatible
excipients, such as dispersing or wetting agents, suspending agents, diluents, buffers,
penetration enhancers, emulsifiers, binders, thickeners, flavoring agents (for oral
administration).
        ii.     Pharmaceutical carriers for antibodies and peptides
        More specifically with respect to MASP antibodies, as described herein,
exemplary formulations can be parenterally administered as injectable dosages of a
solution or suspension of the compound in a physiologically acceptable diluent with a
pharmaceutical carrier that can be a sterile liquid such as water, oils, saline, glycerol or
ethanol.    Additionally, auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents,
surfactants, pH buffering substances and the like can be present in compositions
comprising MASP antibodies. Additional components of pharmaceutical compositions
include petroleum (such as of animal, vegetable or synthetic origin), for example,
soybean oil and mineral oil. In general, glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene
glycol are preferred liquid carriers for injectable solutions.
        The MASP antibodies can also be administered in the form of a depot injection or
implant preparation that can be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained or
pulsatile release of the active agents.
        VIII. MODES OF ADMINISTRATION
        The pharmaceutical compositions comprising the MASP-3 inhibitory agents or
MASP-2 inhibitory agents may be administered in a number of ways depending on
whether a local or systemic mode of administration is most appropriate for the condition
                                              -98-

being treated. Further, the compositions of the present invention can be delivered by
coating or incorporating the compositions on or into an implantable medical device.
        i.      Systemic delivery
        As used herein, the terms "systemic delivery" and "systemic administration" are
intended to include but are not limited to oral and parenteral routes including
intramuscular (IM), subcutaneous, intravenous (IV), intraarterial, inhalational, sublingual,
buccal, topical, transdermal, nasal, rectal, vaginal and other routes of administration that
effectively result in dispersement of the delivered agent to a single or multiple sites of
intended therapeutic action.      Preferred routes of systemic delivery for the present
compositions     include intravenous,      intramuscular,    subcutaneous,     intraarterial   and
inhalational.   It will be appreciated that the exact systemic administration route for
selected agents utilized in particular compositions of the present invention will be
determined in part to account for the agent's susceptibility to metabolic transformation
pathways associated with a given route of administration.             For example, peptidergic
agents may be most suitably administered by routes other than oral.
        The MASP inhibitory antibodies, as described herein, can be delivered into a
subject in need thereof by any suitable means. Methods of delivery of MASP antibodies
and polypeptides       include   administration     by oral,    pulmonary,     parenteral    (e.g.,
intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous injection), inhalation
(such as via a fine powder formulation), transdermal, nasal, vaginal, rectal, or sublingual
routes of administration, and can be formulated in dosage forms appropriate for each
route of administration.
        By way of representative example, MASP inhibitory antibodies and peptides can
be introduced into a living body by application to a bodily membrane capable of
absorbing the polypeptides, for example the nasal, gastrointestinal and rectal membranes.
The polypeptides are typically applied to the absorptive membrane in conjunction with a
permeation enhancer. (See, e.g., Lee, V.H.L., Crit. Rev. Ther. Drug Carrier Sys. 5:69,
(1988); Lee, V.H.L., J. Controlled Release 13:213, (1990); Lee, V.H.L., Ed., Peptide and
Protein Drug Delivery, Marcel Dekker, New York (1991); DeBoer, A.G., ct al.,
J. Controlled Release 13:241, (1990).      For example, STDHF is a synthetic derivative of
fusidic acid, a steroidal surfactant that is similar in structure to the bile salts, and has been
used as a permeation enhancer for nasal delivery. (Lee, W.A., Biophari. 22, Nov./Dec.
1990.)
                                               -99-

        The MASP inhibitory antibodies as described herein may be introduced in
association with another molecule, such as a lipid, to protect the polypeptides from
enzymatic degradation. For example, the covalent attachment of polymers, especially
polyethylene glycol (PEG), has been used to protect certain proteins from enzymatic
hydrolysis in the body and thus prolong half-life (Fuertges, F., et al., J. Controlled
Release 11:139, (1990)). Many polymer systems have been reported for protein delivery
(Bae, Y.H., et al., J. ControlledRelease 9:271, (1989); Hori, R., et al., Pharm. Res. 6:813,
(1989); Yamakawa, I., et al., J. Pharm. Sci. 79:505, (1990);            Yoshihiro, I., et al.,
J. Controlled Release 10:195, (1989); Asano, M., et al., J. Controlled Release 9:111,
(1989);   Rosenblatt,    J., et al., J Controlled Release 9:195,     (1989);  Makino, K.,
J. Controlled Release 12:235, (1990); Takakura, Y., et al., J. Pharm. Sci. 78:117, (1989);
Takakura, Y., et al., J. Pharmn. Sci. 78:219, (1989)).
        Recently, liposomes have been developed with improved serum stability and
circulation half-times (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,741,516, to Webb).        Furthermore,
various methods of liposome and liposome-like preparations as potential drug carriers
have been reviewed (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,567,434, to Szoka; U.S. Patent
No. 5,552,157,     to Yagi;   U.S.    Patent No. 5,565,213,   to Nakamori; U.S.       Patent
No. 5,738,868, to Shinkarenko; and U.S. Patent No. 5,795,587, to Gao).
        For transdermal applications, the MASP inhibitory antibodies, as described
herein, may be combined with other suitable ingredients, such as carriers and/or
adjuvants. There are no limitations on the nature of such other ingredients, except that
they must be pharmaceutically acceptable for their intended administration, and cannot
degrade the activity of the active ingredients of the composition. Examples of suitable
vehicles include ointments, creams, gels, or suspensions, with or without purified
collagen. The MASP inhibitory antibodies may also be impregnated into transdermal
patches, plasters, and bandages, preferably in liquid or semi-liquid form.
        The compositions of the present invention may be systemically administered on a
periodic basis at intervals determined to maintain a desired level of therapeutic effect.
For example, compositions may be administered, such as by subcutaneous injection,
every two to four weeks or at less frequent intervals.       The dosage regimen will be
determined by the physician considering various factors that may influence the action of
the combination of agents.       These factors will include the extent of progress of the
condition being treated, the patient's age, sex and weight, and other clinical factors. The
                                             -100-

dosage for each individual agent will vary as a function of the MASP-3 inhibitory agent
or the MASP-2 inhibitory agent that is included in the composition, as well as the
presence and nature of any drug delivery vehicle (e.g., a sustained release delivery
vehicle). In addition, the dosage quantity may be adjusted to account for variation in the
frequency of administration and the pharmacokinetic behavior of the delivered agent(s).
         ii.    Local delivery
         As used herein, the term "local" encompasses application of a drug in or around a
site of intended localized action, and may include for example topical delivery to the skin
or other affected tissues, ophthalmic delivery, intrathecal (IT), intracerebroventricular
(ICV), intra-articular, intracavity, intracranial or intravesicular administration, placement
or irrigation. Local administration may be preferred to enable administration of a lower
dose, to avoid systemic side effects, and for more accurate control of the timing of
delivery and concentration of the active agents at the site of local delivery.           Local
administration provides a known concentration at the target site, regardless of interpatient
variability in metabolism, blood flow, etc. Improved dosage control is also provided by
the direct mode of delivery.
         Local delivery of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent or a MASP-2 inhibitory agent may
be achieved in the context of surgical methods for treating a disease or condition, such as
for example during procedures such as arterial bypass surgery, atherectomy, laser
procedures, ultrasonic procedures, balloon angioplasty and stent placement. For example,
a MASP-3 inhibitory agent or a MASP-2 inhibitory agent can be administered to a
subject in conjunction with a balloon angioplasty procedure.           A balloon angioplasty
procedure involves inserting a catheter having a deflated balloon into an artery.         The
deflated balloon is positioned in proximity to the atherosclerotic plaque and is inflated
such that the plaque is compressed against the vascular wall. As a result, the balloon
surface is in contact with the layer of vascular endothelial cells on the surface of the
blood vessel. The MASP-3 inhibitory agent or MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be attached
to the balloon angioplasty catheter in a manner that permits release of the agent at the site
of the atherosclerotic plaque.     The agent may be attached to the balloon catheter in
accordance with standard procedures known in the art. For example, the agent may be
stored in a compartment of the balloon catheter until the balloon is inflated, at which
point it is released into the local environment.           Alternatively, the agent may be
impregnated on the balloon surface, such that it contacts the cells of the arterial wall as
                                             -101-

the balloon is inflated. The agent may also be delivered in a perforated balloon catheter
such as those disclosed in Flugelman, M.Y., et al., Circulation85:1110-1117, (1992).
See also published PCT Application WO 95/23161 for an exemplary procedure for
attaching a therapeutic protein to a balloon angioplasty catheter. Likewise, the MASP-3
inhibitory agent or MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be included in a gel or polymeric
coating applied to a stent, or may be incorporated into the material of the stent, such that
the stent elutes the MASP-3 inhibitory agent or MASP-2 inhibitory agent after vascular
placement.
         MASP-3 inhibitory agents or MASP-2 inhibitory agents used in the treatment of
arthritides and other musculoskeletal disorders may be locally delivered by intra-articular
injection. Such compositions may suitably include a sustained release delivery vehicle.
As a further example of instances in which local delivery may be desired, MASP-2
inhibitory compositions used in the treatment of urogenital conditions may be suitably
instilled intravesically or within another urogenital structure.
         IX.     TREATMENT REGIMENS
         In prophylactic applications, the pharmaceutical compositions are administered to
a subject susceptible to, or otherwise at risk of, PNH in an amount sufficient to eliminate
or reduce the risk of developing symptoms of the condition. In therapeutic applications,
the pharmaceutical compositions are administered to a subject suspected of, or already
suffering from, PNH in a therapeutically effective amount sufficient to relieve, or at least
partially reduce, the symptoms of the condition.
         In one embodiment, the subject's red blood cells are opsonized by fragments of
C3 in the absence of the composition, and administration of the composition to the
subject increases the survival of red blood cells in the subject. In one embodiment, the
subject exhibits one or more symptoms in the absence of the composition selected from
the group consisting of (i) below normal levels of hemoglobin, (ii) below normal levels of
platelets; (iii) above normal levels of reticulocytes, and (iv) above normal levels of
bilirubin, and administration of the composition to the subject improves at least one or
more of the symptoms, resulting in (i) increased, normal, or nearly normal levels of
hemoglobin (ii) increased, normal or nearly normal levels of platelets, (iii) decreased,
normal or nearly normal levels of reticulocytes, and/or (iv) decreased, normal or nearly
normal levels of bilirubin.
                                             -102-

        In both prophylactic and therapeutic regimens, compositions comprising MASP-3
inhibitory agents and optionally MASP-2 inhibitory agents may be administered in
several dosages until a sufficient therapeutic outcome has been achieved in the subject.
In one embodiment of the invention, the MASP-3 and/or MASP-2 inhibitory agent
comprises a MASP-1 antibody, a MASP-2 antibody or a MASP-3 antibody, which
suitably may be administered to an adult patient (e.g., an average adult weight of 70 kg)
in a dosage of from 0.1 mg to 10,000 mg, more suitably from 1.0 mg to 5,000 mg, more
suitably 10.0 mg to 2,000 mg, more suitably 10.0 mg to 1,000 mg and still more suitably
from 50.0 mg to 500 mg, or 10 to 200 mg. For pediatric patients, dosage can be adjusted
in proportion to the patient's weight.
        Application of the MASP-3 inhibitory compositions and optional MASP-2
inhibitory compositions of the present invention may be carried out by a single
administration of the composition (e.g., a single composition comprising MASP-2 and
MASP-3 inhibitory agents, or bispecific or dual inhibitory agents, or co-administration of
separate compositions), or a limited sequence of administrations, for treatment of PNH.
Alternatively, the composition may be administered at periodic intervals such as daily,
biweekly, weekly, every other week, monthly or bimonthly over an extended period of
time for treatment of PNH.
        In some embodiments, a first composition comprising at least one MASP-3
inhibitory agent and a second composition comprising at least one MASP-2 inhibitory
agent are administered to a subject suffering from PNH. In one embodiment, the first
composition comprising at least one MASP-3 inhibitory agent and a second composition
comprising at least one MASP-2 inhibitory agent are administered simultaneously (i.e.,
within a time separation of no more than about 15 minutes or less, such as no more than
any of 10, 5 or 1 minute). In one embodiment, the first composition comprising at least
one MASP-3 inhibitory agent and a second composition comprising at least one MASP-2
inhibitory agent are administered sequentially (i.e., the first composition is administered
either prior to or after the administration of the second composition, wherein the time
separation of administration is more than 15 minutes). In some embodiments, the first
composition comprising at least one MASP-3 inhibitory agent and a second composition
comprising at least one MASP-2 inhibitory agent are administered concurrently (i.e., the
administration period of the first composition overlaps with the administration of the
second composition). For example, in some embodiments, the first composition and/or
                                           -103-

the second composition are administered for a period of at least one, two, three or four
weeks or longer. In one embodiment, at least one MASP-3 inhibitory agent and at least
one MASP-2 inhibitory agent are combined in a unit dosage form. In one embodiment, a
first composition comprising at least one MASP-3 inhibitory agent and a second
composition comprising at least one MASP-2 inhibitory agent are packaged together in a
kit for use in treatment of PNH.
         In some embodiments, the subject suffering from PNH has previously undergone,
or is currently undergoing treatment with a terminal complement inhibitor that inhibits
cleavage of complement protein C5.         In some embodiments, the method comprises
administering to the subject a composition of the invention comprising a MASP-3 and
optionally a MASP-2 inhibitor and further administering to the subject a terminal
complement inhibitor that inhibits cleavage of complement protein C5.             In some
embodiments, the terminal complement inhibitor is a humanized anti-C5 antibody or
antigen-binding fragment thereof.      In some embodiments, the terminal complement
inhibitor is eculizumab.
         X.      EXAMPLES
         The following examples merely illustrate the best mode now contemplated for
practicing the invention, but should not be construed to limit the invention. All literature
citations herein are expressly incorporated by reference.
                                       EXAMPLE 1
         This Example demonstrates that MASP-2 deficient mice are protected from
Neisseria meningitidis induced mortality after infection with either N. meningitidis
serogroup A or N. meningitidis serogroup B.
         Methods:
         MASP-2 knockout mice (MASP-2 KO mice) were generated as described in
Example 1 of US 7,919,094, hereby incorporated herein by reference.           10-week-old
MASP-2 KO mice (n=10) and wild-type (WT) C57/BL6 mice (n=10) were inoculated by
intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection with a dosage of 2.6 x 107 CFU of N. meningitidis
serogroup A Z2491 in a volume of 100 pl. The infective dose was administered to mice
in conjunction with iron dextran at a final concentration of 400 mg/kg. Survival of the
mice after infection was monitored over a 72-hour time period.
         In a separate experiment, 10-week-old MASP-2 KO mice (n=10) and WT
C57/BL6 mice (n=10) were inoculated by i.p. injection with a dosage of 6 x 106 CFU of
                                            -104-

N. meningitidis serogroup B strain MC58 in a volume of 100 li. The infective dose was
administered to mice in conjunction with iron dextran at a final dose of 400 mg/kg.
Survival of the mice after infection was monitored over a 72-hour time period. An illness
score was also determined for the WT and MASP-2 KO mice during the 72-hour time
period after infection, based on the illness scoring parameters described below in TABLE
4, which is based on the scheme of Fransen et al. (2010) with slight modifications.
        TABLE 4: Illness Scoring associated with clinical signs in infected mice
Signs                                            Score
Normal                                           0
Slightly ruffled fur                             1
Ruffled fur, slow and sticky eyes                2
Ruffled fur, lethargic and eyes shut             3
Very sick and no movement after                  4
stimulation
Dead                                             5
        Blood samples were taken from the mice at hourly intervals after infection and
analyzed to determine the serum level (log cfu/mL) of N. meningitidis in order to verify
infection and determine the rate of clearance of the bacteria from the serum.
        Results:
        FIGURE 8 is a Kaplan-Meyer plot graphically illustrating the percent survival of
MASP-2 KO and WT mice after administration of an infective dose of 2.6 x 107 cfu of N.
meningitidis serogroup A Z2491. As shown in FIGURE 8, 100% of the MASP-2 KO
mice survived throughout the 72-hour period after infection. In contrast, only 80% of the
WT mice (p=0.012) were still alive 24 hours after infection, and only 50% of the WT
mice were still alive at 72 hours after infection. These results demonstrate that MASP-2
deficient mice are protected from N. meningitidis serogroup A Z249 1-induced mortality.
        FIGURE 9 is a Kaplan-Meyer plot graphically illustrating the percent survival of
MASP-2 KO and WT mice after administration of an infective dose of 6 x 106 efu of N.
meningitidis serogroup B strain MC58. As shown in FIGURE 9, 90% of the MASP-2
KO mice survived throughout the 72-hour period after infection. In contrast, only 20% of
                                             -105-

the WT mice (p=0.002 2 ) were still alive 24 hours after infection.         These results
demonstrate that MASP-2-deficient mice are protected from N. meningitidis serogroup B
strain MC58-induced mortality.
        FIGURE 10 graphically illustrates the log cfu/mL of N. meningitidis serogroup B
strain MC58 recovered at different time points in blood samples taken from the MASP-2
KO and WT mice after i.p. infection with 6x10 6 cfu of N. meningitidis serogroup B strain
MC58 (n=3 at different time points for both groups of mice). The results are expressed as
Means+SEM. As shown in FIGURE 10, in WT mice the level of N. meningitidis in the
blood reached a peak of about 6.0 log cfu/nL at 24 hours after infection and dropped to
about 4.0 log cfu/mL by 36 hours after infection. In contrast, in the MASP-2 KO mice,
the level of N. meningitidis reached a peak of about 4.0 log cfu/mL at 12 hours after
infection and dropped to about 1.0 log cfu/mL by 36 hours after infection (the symbol "*"
indicates p<0.05; the symbol "**" indicates p=0.0043). These results demonstrate that
although the MASP-2 KO mice were infected with the same dose of N. meningitidis
serogroup B strain MC58 as the WT mice, the MASP-2 KO mice have enhanced
clearance of bacteraemia as compared to WT.
        FIGURE 11 graphically illustrates the average illness score of MASP-2 KO and
WT mice at 3, 6, 12 and 24 hours after infection with 6x10 6 cfu of N. meningitidis
serogroup B strain MC58.       As shown in FIGURE 11, the MASP-2-deficient mice
showed high resistance to the infection, with much lower illness scores at 6 hours
(symbol "*" indicates p=0.0411), 12 hours (symbol "**" indicates p=0.0049) and 24
hours (symbol "***" indicates p=0.0049) after infection, as compared to WT mice. The
results in FIGURE 11 are expressed as means+SEM.
        In summary, the results in this Example demonstrate that MASP-2-deficient mice
are protected from N. neningitides-inducedmortality after infection with either N.
meningitidis serogroup A or N. meningitidis serogroup B.
                                       EXAMPLE 2
        This Example demonstrates that the administration of MASP-2 antibody after
infection with N. meningitidis increases the survival of mice infected with N.
meningitidis.
        Background/Rationale:
        As described in Example 24 of US Patent 7,919,094, incorporated herein by
reference, rat MASP-2 protein was utilized to pan a Fab phage display library, from
                                           -106-

which Fab2 #11 was identified as a functionally active antibody. Full-length antibodies
of the rat IgG2c and mouse IgG2a isotypes were generated from Fab2 #11.               The full
length MASP-2        antibody of the mouse IgG2a isotype was characterized                  for
pharmacodynamic parameters (as described in Example 38 of US Patent 7,919,094).
         In this Example, the mouse MASP-2 full-length antibody derived from Fab2 #11
was analyzed in the mouse model of N. meningitidis infection.
         Methods:
         The mouse IgG2a full-length MASP-2 antibody isotype derived from Fab2 #11,
generated as described above, was tested in the mouse model of N. meningitidis infection
as follows.
         1.   Administration of mouse-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) after
infection
         9-week-old C57/BL6 Charles River mice were treated with inhibitory mouse
MASP-2 antibody (1.0 mg/kg) (n=12) or control isotype antibody (n=10) at 3 hours after
i.p. injection with a high dose (4x10 6 efu) of N. meningitidis serogroup B strain MC58.
         Results:
         FIGURE 12 is a Kaplan-Meyer plot graphically illustrating the percent survival
of mice after administration of an infective dose of 4x10 6 cfu of N. meningitidis
serogroup B strain MC58, followed by administration 3 hours post-infection of either
inhibitory MASP-2 antibody (1.0 mg/kg) or control isotype antibody.               As shown in
FIGURE 12, 90% of the mice treated with MASP-2 antibody survived throughout the
72-hour period after infection. In contrast, only 50% of the mice treated with isotype
control antibody survived throughout the 72-hour period after infection. The symbol        "*"
indicates p=0.0301, as determined by comparison of the two survival curves.
         These results demonstrate that administration of a MASP-2 antibody is effective
to treat and improve survival in subjects infected with N. meningitidis.
         As demonstrated herein, the use of MASP-2 antibody in the treatment of a subject
infected with N. meningitidis is effective when administered within 3 hours post
infection, and is expected to be effective within 24 hours to 48 hours after infection.
Meningococcal disease (either meningococcemia or meningitis) is a medical emergency,
and therapy will typically be initiated immediately if meningococcal disease is suspected
(i.e., before N. meningitidis is positively identified as the etiological agent).
                                              -107-

        In view of the results in the MASP-2 KO mouse demonstrated in EXAMPLE 1, it
is believed that administration of MASP-2          antibody prior to infection with IV.
meningitidis would also be effective to prevent or ameliorate the severity of infection.
                                        EXAMPLE 3
        This Example demonstrates the complement-dependent killing of N. meningitidis
in human sera is MASP-3-dependent.
        Rationale:
        Patients with decreased serum levels of functional MBL display increased
susceptibility to recurrent bacterial and fungal infections (Kilpatrick et al., Biochim
Biophys Acta 1572:401-413 (2002)). It is known that N. meningitidis is recognized by
MBL, and it has been shown that MBL-deficient sera do not lyse N. mneningitidis.
        In view of the results described in Examples 1 and 2, a series of experiments were
carried out to determine the efficacy of administration of MASP-2 antibody to treat N.
meningitidis infection in complement-deficient and control human sera.         Experiments
were carried out in a high concentration of serum (20%) in order to preserve the
complement pathway.
        Methods:
        1. Serum bactericidal activity in various complement-deficient human sera and
in human sera treated with human MASP-2 antibody
        The following complement-deficient human sera and control human sera were
used in this experiment:
        TABLE 5: Human serum samples tested (as shown in FIGURE 13)
Sample       Serum type
A           Normal human sera (NHS) + human MASP-2 Ab
B           NHS + isotype control Ab
C           MBL -/- human serum
D           NHS
E           Heat-Inactivated (HI) NHS
        A   recombinant antibody       against human    MASP-2     was isolated     from a
combinatorial Antibody Library (Knappik, A., et al., J. Mol. Biol. 296:57-86 (2000)),
using recombinant human MASP-2A as an antigen (Chen, C.B. and Wallis, J Biol.
Chem. 276:25894-25902 (2001)). An anti-human scFv fragment that potently inhibited
                                            -108-

lectin pathway-mediated activation of C4 and C3 in human plasma (IC50~20 nM) was
identified and converted to a full-length human IgG4 antibody.
         N. meningitidis serogroup B-MC58 was incubated with the different sera show in
TABLE 5, each at a serum concentration of 20%, with or without the addition of
inhibitory human MASP-2 antibody (3 ptg in 100 pl total volume) at 370 C with shaking.
Samples were taken at the following time points: 0-, 30-, 60- and 90-minute intervals,
plated out and then viable counts were determined. Heat-inactivated human serum was
used as a negative control.
        Results:
        FIGURE 13 graphically illustrates the log cfu/mL of viable counts of N.
meningitidis serogroup B-MC58 recovered at different time points in the human sera
samples shown in TABLE 5.            TABLE 6 provides the Student's t-test results for
FIGURE 13.
        TABLE 6: Student's t-test Results for FIGURE 13 (time point 60 minutes)
                       Mean Diff. (Log)        Significant?       P value summary
                                               P<0.05?
A vs B                 -0.3678                 Yes                ***(0.0002)
A vs C                 -1.1053                 Yes                ***(p<0.000l)
A vs D                 -0.2111                 Yes                **(0.0012)
C vs D                   1.9                   Yes                ***(p<0.0001)
        As shown in FIGURE 13 and TABLE 6, complement-dependent killing of N.
meningitidis in human 20% serum was significantly enhanced by the addition of the
human MASP-2 inhibitory antibody.
                                            -109-

        2. Serum bactericidal activity in various complement-deficient human sera
        The following complement-deficient human sera and control human sera were
used in this experiment:
        TABLE 7: Human serum samples tested (as shown in FIGURE 14)
Sample                     Serum Type
A                          Normal human serum (NHS)
B                          Heat-inactivated NHS
C                          MBL -/
D                          MASP-3 -/- (MASP-1 +)
Note: The MASP-3 -/- (MASP-1 +) serum in sample D was taken from a subject with
3MC syndrome, which is a unifying term for the overlapping Carnevale, Mingarelli,
Malpuech and Michels syndromes. As further described in Example 4, the mutations in
exon 12 of the MASP-1/3 gene render the serine protease domain of MASP-3, but not
MASP-1 dysfunctional. It is also known that factor D is intact in 3MC serum.
        N. meningitidis serogroup B-MC58 was incubated with different complement
deficient human sera, each at a serum concentration of 20%, at 370 C with shaking.
Samples were taken at the following time points: 0-, 15-, 30-, 45-, 60-, 90- and 120
minute intervals, plated out and then viable counts were determined. Heat-inactivated
human serum was used as a negative control.
        Results:
        FIGURE 14 graphically illustrates the log cfu/mL of viable counts of N.
meningitidis serogroup B-MC58 recovered at different time points in the human sera
samples shown in TABLE 7. As shown in FIGURE 14, the WT (NHS) serum has the
highest level of bactericidal activity for N. meningitidis. In contrast, the MBL -/- and
MASP-3 -/- (which is MASP-1-sufficient) human sera do not have any bactericidal
activity. These results indicate that complement-dependent killing of N. meningitidis in
human 20% (v/v) serum is MASP-3- and MBL-dependent.              TABLE 8 provides the
Student's t-test results for FIGURE 14.
                                             -110-

        TABLE 8: Student's t-test Results for FIGURE 14
Comparison         Time         Mean Diff.       Significant?          P value
                   Point         (Log)           P<0.05?               Summary
                   (min)
A vs B             60            -0.8325        Yes                    ***(p<0.0001)
A vs B             90            -1.600         Yes                    ***(p<0.0001)
A vs C             60            -1.1489        Yes                    ***(p<0.0001)
A vs C             90            -1.822         Yes                    ***(p<0.0001)
A vs D             60            -1.323         Yes                    ***(0.0005)
AvsD               90            -2.185         Yes                    ***(p<0.0001)
        In summary, the results shown in FIGURE 14 and TABLE 8 demonstrate that
complement-dependent killing of N. meningitidis in 20% human serum is MASP-3- and
MBL-dependent.
        3. Complement-dependent killing of N. meningitidis in 20% (v/v) mouse sera
deficient of MASP-2, MASP-1/3 or MBL A/C.
        The following complement-deficient mouse sera and control mouse sera were
used in this experiment:
        TABLE 9: Mouse serum samples tested (as shown in FIGURE 15)
Sample                   Serum Type
A                        WT
B                        MASP-2 -/
C                        MASP-1/3    -/
D                        MBL A/C    -/
E                        WT heat-inactivated (HIS)
        N. meningitidis serogroup B-MC58 was incubated with different complement
deficient mouse sera, each at a serum concentration of 20%, at 370 C with shaking.
Samples were taken at the following time points: 0-, 15-, 30-, 60-, 90- and 120-minute
intervals, plated out and then viable counts were determined.   Heat-inactivated human
serum was used as a negative control.
                                          -111-

        Results:
        FIGURE 15 graphically illustrates the log cfu/mL of viable counts of A.
meningitidis serogroup B-MC58 recovered at different time points in the mouse serum
samples shown in TABLE 9. As shown in FIGURE 15, the MASP-2 -/- mouse sera
have a higher level of bactericidal activity for V. meningitidis than WT mouse sera. In
contrast, the MASP-1/3 -/- mouse sera do not have any bactericidal activity. The symbol
"**" indicates p=0.0058, the symbol "***" indicates p=0.001. TABLE 10 provides the
Student's t-test results for FIGURE 15.
        TABLE 10: Student's t-test Results for FIGURE 15
Comparison Time point           Mean Diff.   Significant?    P value summary
                                (LOG)        (p<0.05)?
A vs. B          60 min.        0.39        yes              ** (0.0058)
Avs. B           90 min.        0.6741      yes              *** (0.001)
        In summary, the results in this Example demonstrate that MASP-2 -/- serum has a
higher level of bactericidal activity for N. meningitidis than WT serum and that
complement-dependent killing of N. meningitidis in 20% serum is MASP-3- and MBL
dependent.
                                       EXAMPLE 4
        This Example describes a series of experiments that were carried out to determine
the mechanism of the MASP-3-dependent            resistance to N. meningitidis infection
observed in MASP-2 KO mice, as described in Examples 1-3.
        Rationale:
        In order to determine the mechanism of MASP-3-dependent resistance to N.
meningitidis infection observed in MASP-2 KO mice (described in Examples 1-3 above),
a series of experiments were carried out as follows.
        1.   MASP-1/3-deficient mice are not deficient of lectin pathway functional
activity (also referred to as "LEA-2'9
                                           -112-

        Methods:
        In order to determine whether MASP-1/3-deficient mice are deficient of lectin
pathway functional activity (also referred to as LEA-2), an assay was carried out to
measure the kinetics of C3 convertase activity in plasma from various complement
deficient mouse strains tested under lectin activation pathway-specific assay conditions
(1% plasma), as described in Schwaeble W. et al., PNAS vol 108(18):7523-7528 (2011),
hereby incorporated herein by reference.
        Plasma was tested from WT, C4-/-, MASP-1/3-/-; Factor B-/-, and MASP-2-/
mice as follows.
        To measure C3 activation, microtiter plates were coated with mannan (1 pg/well),
zymosan (1 ptg/well) in coating buffer (15 nM Na2 Co 3 , 35 mM NaHCO 3), or immune
complexes, generated in situ by coating with 1% human serum albumin (HSA) in coating
buffer then adding sheep anti-HAS serum (2 ptg/mL) in TBS (10mM Tris, 140 mM NaC,
pH 7.4) with 0.05% Tween 20 and 5 mM Ca7. Plates were blocked with 0.1% HSA in
TBS and washed three times with TBS/Tween20/ Ca7. Plasma samples were diluted in 4
mM barbital, 145 mM NaCl, 2 mM CaCl 2, 1 mM MgCl 2 , pH 7.4, added to the plates and
incubated for 1.5 h at 370 C. After washing, bound C3b was detected using rabbit anti
human C3c (Dako), followed by alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG
and p-nitrophenyl phosphate.
        Results:
        The kinetics of C3 activation (as measured by C3b deposition on mannan-coated
plates with 1% serum) under lectin pathway-specific conditions is shown in FIGURE 16.
No C3 cleavage was seen in MASP-2-/- plasma.          Factor B-/- (Factor B -/-) plasma
cleaved C3 at half the rate of WT plasma, likely due to the loss of the amplification loop.
A significant delay in the lectin pathway-dependent conversion of C3 to C3b was seen in
C4-/- (T u2=33min) as well as in MASP-1/3-/- deficient plasma (T/2=49 min). This delay
of C3 activation in MASP-1/3 -/- plasma has been shown to be MASP-1- rather than
MASP-3-dependent. (See Takahashi M. et al., J Immunol 180:6132-6138 (2008)). These
results demonstrate that MASP-1/3-deficient mice are not deficient of lectin pathway
functional activity (also referred to as "LEA-2").
        2. Effect of hereditary MASP-3 deficiency on alternative pathway activation.
                                            -113-

        Rationale:
        The effect of hereditary MASP-3 deficiency on alternative pathway activation was
determined by testing serum of a MASP-3-deficient patient with 3MC syndrome caused
by a frame-shift mutation in the exon encoding the serine protease of MASP-3. The 3MC
syndrome is a unifying term for the overlapping Cameavale, Mingarelli, Malpuech and
Michels syndromes. These rare autosomal recessive disorders exhibit a spectrum of
developmental features, including characteristic facial dysmorphism, cleft lip and/or
palate,   craniosynostosis,   learning  disability and genital,   limb  and   vesicorenal
abnormalities. Rooryck et al., Nature Genetics 43:197-203 (2011) studied 11 families
with 3MC syndrome and identified two mutated genes, COLEC 11 and MASP-1.             The
mutations in the MASP-1 gene render the exon encoding the shrine protease domain of
MASP-3, but not the exons encoding the serine protease of MASP-1, dysfunctional.
Therefore, 3MC patients with mutations in the exon encoding the serine protease of
MASP-3 are deficient of MASP-3 but sufficient in MASP- 1.
        Methods:
        MASP-3-deficient serum was obtained from a 3MC patient, the mother and father
of the 3MC patient (both heterozygous for the allele bearing a mutation that renders the
exon encoding the MASP-3 serine protease domain dysfunctional), as well as from a C4
deficient patient (deficient in both human C4 genes) and an MBL-deficient subject. An
alternative pathway assay was carried out under traditional AP-specific conditions (BBS/
Mg++/EGTA, without Ca++, wherein BBS = barbital buffered saline containing sucrose),
as described in Bitter-Suermann et al., Eur. J. Immunol 11:291-295 (1981)), on zymosan
coated microtiter plates at serum concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 25% and C3b
deposition was measured over time.
        Results:
        FIGURE 17 graphically illustrates the level of alternative pathway-driven C3b
deposition on zymosan-coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in
serum samples obtained from MASP-3-deficient, C4-deficient and MBL-deficient
subjects.   As shown in FIGURE 17, MASP-3-deficient patient serum has residual
alternative pathway (AP) activity at high serum concentrations (25%, 12.5%, 6.25%
serum concentrations), but a significantly higher AP50 (i.e.. 9.8% of serum needed to
achieve 50% of maximum C3 deposition).
                                            -114-

        FIGURE 18 graphically illustrates the level of alternative pathway-driven C3b
deposition on zymosan-coated microtiter plates under "traditional" alternative pathway
specific (AP-specific) conditions (i.e., BBS/EGTA/Mg + without Ca++) as a function of
time in 10% human serum samples obtained from MASP-3-deficient, C4-deficient and
MBL-deficient human subjects.
        TABLE 11 below summarizes the AP50 results shown in FIGURE 17 and the
half-times for C3b deposition shown in FIGURE 18.
TABLE 11: Summary of Results shown in FIGURES 17 and 18
Serum type                      AP50  (%)                   T  2 (min)
MASP-3-deficient                9.8                         37.4
(3MC patient)
Mother    of 3MC       patient 4.3                          17.2
(heterozygous)
Father    of   3MC     patient 4.3                          20.9
(heterozygous)
C4-deficient                    4.0                         11.6
MBL-deficient                   4.8                         11.0
Note: In BBS/ Mg7*/EGTA buffer, the lectin pathway-mediated effects are deficient due
to absence of Ca+- in this buffer.
        While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that the
lower alternative pathway activity observed in the MASP-3-deficient serum is caused
because the 3MC patient has active factor D in his serum, and since this patient still
expresses MASP-1 and HTRA1, conversion of pro-factor D is still able to occur in the
absence of MASP-3, although at a lower level
        3. Measurement of C3b deposition on mannan, zymosan and S. pneumonia
D39 in mouse sera deficient of MASP-2 or MASP-1/3.
        Methods:
        C3b deposition was measured on mannan, zymosan and S. pneumonia D39-coated
microtiter plates using mouse serum concentrations ranging from 0% to 20% obtained
from MASP-2-/-, MASP-1/3-/- and WT mice. The C3b deposition assays were carried
                                           -115-

out    under   either    "traditional"   alternative   pathway-specific     conditions   (i.e.
BBS/EGTA/Mg"        without Ca ), or under physiological conditions allowing both the
lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to function (i.e., BBS/Mg"/Ca+*).
        Results:
        FIGURE 19A graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition on mannan
coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum samples obtained
from WT, MASP-2-deficient, and MASP-1/3-deficient mice under traditional alternative
pathway-specific conditions (i.e., BBS/EGTA/Mg" without Ca"), or under physiological
conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to function
(BBS/Mg/Ca"). FIGURE 19B graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum samples
from WT, MASP-2-deficient, and MASP-1/3 -deficient mice under traditional AP-specific
conditions (i.e., BBS/EGTA/Mg"         without Ca"), or under physiological conditions
allowing both     the   lectin    pathway   and    the   alternative   pathway  to   function
(BBS/Mg/Ca"). FIGURE 19C graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition on S.
pneumoniae D39-coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum
samples from WT, MASP-2-deficient, and MASP-1/3-deficient mice under traditional
AP-specific conditions (i.e., BBS/EGTA/Mg"           without Ca'), or under physiological
conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to function
(BBS/Mg/Ca).
        FIGURE 20A graphically illustrates the results of a C3b deposition assay in
highly diluted sera carried out on mannan-coated microtiter plates under traditional AP
specific conditions    (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"          without Ca") or under physiological
conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to function
(BBS/Mg/Ca), using serum concentrations ranging from 0 % up to 1.25%. FIGURE
20B graphically illustrates the results of a C3b deposition assay carried out on zymosan
coated microtiter plates under traditional AP-specific conditions (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"
without Ca") or under physiological conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the
alternative pathway to function (BBS/EGTA/Mg/Ca"), using serum concentrations
ranging from 0 % up to 1.25%. FIGURE 20C graphically illustrates the results of a C3b
deposition assay carried out on S. pneumoniae           D39-coated microtiter plates under
traditional AP-specific conditions (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg"               without Car') or under
physiological conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the alternative pathway to
                                             -116-

function (BBS/EGTA/Mg"/Ca ), using serum concentrations ranging from 0 % up to
1.25%.
        As shown in FIGURES 20A-C, C3b deposition assays were also carried out
under traditional alternative pathway-specific conditions (i.e. BBS/EGTA/Mg+* without
Ca ) or under physiological conditions allowing both the lectin pathway and the
alternative pathway to function (BBS/Mg+*/Ca7*), using higher dilutions ranging from 0
% up to 1.25% serum on mannan-coated plates (FIGURE 20A); zymosan-coated plates
(FIGURE 20B) and S. pneumoniae D39-coated plates (FIGURE 20C). The alternative
pathway tails off under higher serum dilutions, so the activity observed in the MASP-1/3
deficient serum in the presence of Ca++ is MASP-2-mediated LP activity, and the activity
in MASP-2-deficient serum in the presence of Ca++ is MASP-1/3-mediated residual
activation of the AP.
        Discussion:
        The results described in this Example demonstrate that a MASP-2 inhibitor (or
MASP-2     KO) provides significant protection from N. meningitidis infection by
promoting MASP-3-driven alternative pathway activation. The results of the mouse
serum bacteriolysis assays and the human serum bacteriolysis assays further show, by
monitoring the serum bactericidal activity against N. meningitidis, that bactericidal
activity against N. meningitidis is absent in MBL-deficient (mouse MBL A and MBL C
double-deficient and human MBL-deficient sera).
        FIGURE 1 illustrates the new understanding of the lectin pathway and alternative
pathway based on the results provided herein. FIGURE 1 delineates the role of LEA-2
in both opsonization and lysis. While MASP-2 is the initiator of "downstream" C3b
deposition    (and   resultant  opsonization)     in multiple    lectin-dependent settings
physiologically (FIGURE 20A, 20B, 20C), it also plays a role in lysis of serum-sensitive
bacteria. As illustrated in FIGURE 1, the proposed molecular mechanism responsible
for the increased bactericidal activity of MASP-2-deficient or MASP-2-depleted
serum/plasma for serum-sensitive pathogens such as N. ineningitidis is that, for the lysis
of bacteria, lectin pathway recognition complexes associated with MASP-1 and MASP-3
have to bind in close proximity to each other on the bacterial surface, thereby allowing
MASP-1 to cleave MASP-3.        In contrast to MASP-1 and MASP-2, MASP-3 is not an
auto-activating enzyme, but, in many instances, requires activation/cleavage by MASP-1
to be converted into its enzymatically active form.
                                            -117-

         As further shown in FIGURE 1, activated MASP-3 can then cleave C3b-bound
factor B on the pathogen surface to initiate the alternative pathway activation cascade by
formation of the enzymatically active alternative pathway C3 and C5 convertase C3bBb
and C3bBb(C3b)n, respectively. MASP-2-bearing lectin-pathway activation complexes
have no part in the activation of MASP-3 and, in the absence or after depletion of MASP
2, all-lectin pathway activation complexes will either be loaded with MASP-1 or MASP
3. Therefore, in the absence of MASP-2, the likelihood is markedly increased that on the
microbial surface MASP-1 and MASP-3-bearing lectin-pathway activation complexes
will come to sit in close proximity to each other, leading to more MASP-3 being activated
and thereby leading to a higher rate of MASP-3-mediated cleavage of C3b-bound factor
B to form the alternative pathway C3 and C5 convertases C3bBb and C3bBb(C3b)n on
the microbial surface. This leads to the activation of the terminal activation cascades
C5b-C9 that forms the Membrane Attack Complex, composed of surface-bound C5b
associated with C6, C5bC6 associated with C7, C5bC6C7 associated with C8, and
C5bC6C7C8, leading to the polymerization of C9 that inserts into the bacterial surface
structure and forms a pore in the bacterial wall, which will lead to osmolytic killing of the
complement-targeted bacterium.
         The core of this novel concept is that the data provided herein clearly show that
the lectin-pathway activation complexes drive the following two distinct activation
routes, as illustrated in FIGURE 1:
                                       EXAMPLE 5
         This Example demonstrates the inhibitory effect of MASP-2 deficiency and/or
MASP-3 deficiency on lysis of red blood cells from blood samples obtained from a
mouse model of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH).
         Back2round/Rationale:
         Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), also referred to as Marchiafava
Micheli syndrome, is an acquired, potentially life-threatening disease of the blood,
characterized by complement-induced intravascular hemolytic anemia. The hallmark of
PNH is the chronic complement-mediated intravascular hemolysis that is a consequence
of unregulated activation of the alternative pathway of complement due to the absence of
the complement regulators CD55 and CD59 on PNH erythrocytes, with subsequent
hemoglobinuria and anemia. Lindorfer, M.A., et al., Blood 115(11) (2010), Risitano,
                                            -118-

A.M, Mini-Reviews in Medicinal Chemistry, 11:528-535 (2011). Anemia in PNH is due
to destruction of red blood cells in the bloodstream. Symptoms of PNH include red urine,
due to appearance of hemoglobin in the urine, back pain, fatigue, shortness of breath and
thrombosis. PNH may develop on its own, referred to as "primary PNH" or in the context
of other bone marrow disorders such as aplastic anemia, referred to as "secondary PNH".
Treatment for PNH includes blood transfusion for anemia, anticoagulation for thrombosis
and the use of the monoclonal antibody eculizumab (Soliris), which protects blood cells
against immune destruction by inhibiting the complement system (Hillmen P. et al., N.
Engl. J. Med. 350(6):552-9 (2004)). Eculizumab (Soliris@) is a humanized monoclonal
antibody that targets the complement component C5, blocking its cleavage by C5
convertases, thereby preventing the production of C5a and the assembly of MAC.
Treatment of PNH patients with eculizumab has resulted in a reduction of intravascular
hemolysis, as measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), leading to hemoglobin
stabilization and transfusion independence in about half of the patients (Hillmen P, et al.,
Mini-Reviews in Medicinal Chemistry, vol 11(6) (2011)).          While nearly all patients
undergoing therapy with eculizumab achieve normal or almost normal LDH levels (due
to control of intravascular hemolysis), only about one third of the patients reach a
hemoglobin value about 11 gr/dL, and the remaining patients on eculizumab continue to
exhibit moderate to severe (i.e., transfusion-dependent)         anemia, in about equal
proportions (Risitano A.M. et al., Blood 113:4094-100 (2009)). As described in Risitano
et al., Mini-Reviews in Medicinal Chemistry 11:528-535 (2011), it was demonstrated that
PNH patients on eculizumab contained C3 fragments bound to a substantial portion of
their PNH erythrocytes (while untreated patients did not), leading to the conclusion that
membrane-bound C3 fragments work as opsonins on PNH erythrocytes, resulting in their
entrapment in the reticuloendothelial cells through specific C3 receptors and subsequent
extravascular hemolysis.      Therefore, therapeutic strategies in addition to the use of
eculizumab are needed for those patients developing C3 fragment-mediated extravascular
hemolysis because they continue to require red cell transfusions.
         This Example describes methods to assess the effect of MASP-2- and MASP-3
deficient serum on lysis of red blood cells from blood samples obtained from a mouse
model of PNH and demonstrates the efficacy of MASP-2 inhibition and/or MASP-3
inhibition to treat subjects suffering from PNH, and also supports the use of inhibitors of
MASP-2 and/or inhibitors of MASP-3 (including dual or bispecific MASP-2/MASP-3
                                             -119-

inhibitors) to ameliorate the effects of C3 fragment-mediated extravascular hemolysis in
PNH subjects undergoing therapy with a C5 inhibitor such as eculizumab.
        Methods:
        PNH animal model:
        Blood samples were obtained from gene-targeted mice with deficiencies of Crry
and C3 (Crry/C3-/-) and CD55/CD59-deficient mice.            These mice are missing the
respective surface complement regulators on their erythrocytes and these erythrocytes
are, therefore, susceptible to spontaneous complement autolysis as are PNH human blood
cells.
        In order to sensitize these erythrocytes even more, these cells were used with and
without coating by mannan and then tested for hemolysis in WT C56/BL6 plasma, MBL
null plasma, MASP-2 -/- plasma, MASP-1/3 -/- plasma, human NHS, human MBL -/
plasma, and NHS treated with human MASP-2 antibody.
        1.    Hemolysis assay of Crry/C3 and CD55/CD59 double-deficient murine
erythrocytes in MASP-2-deficient/depleted sera and controls
Day 1. Preparation of murine RBC ( mannan coating).
        Materials included: fresh mouse blood, BBS/Mg"' Ca_ (4.4 mM barbituric acid,
1.8 mM sodium barbitone, 145 mM NaCl, pH 7.4, 5mM Mg", 5mM Ca"), chromium
chloride, CrCI 3 6H 20 (0.5mg/mL in BBS/Mg7/ Ca+)            and mannan, 100 pg/mL in
BBS/Mg      /Ca".
        Whole blood (2 niL) was spun down for 1-2 min at 2000xg in a refrigerated
centrifuge at 4'C. The plasma and buffy coat were aspirated off. The sample was then
washed 3x by re-suspending RBC pellet in 2 mL ice-cold BBS/gelatin/Mg"/Ca"             and
repeating centrifugation step. After the third wash, the pellet was re-suspended in 4 mL
BBS/Mg/Ca". A 2 mL aliquot of the RBC was set aside as an uncoated control. To the
remaining 2 mL, 2 mL CrCl3 and 2 mL mannan were added and the sample was
incubated with gentle mixing at RT for 5min. The reaction was terminated by adding 7.5
mL BBS/gelatin/Mg"/Ca". The sample was spun down as above, re-suspended in 2 mL
BBS/gelatin/Mg/Ca" and washed a further two times as above, then stored at 4'C.
Day 2. Hemolysis assay
                                            -120-

        Materials included BBS/gelatin/Mg/Ca'          (as above), test sera, 96-well round
bottomed and flat-bottomed plates and a spectrophotometer that reads 96-well plates at
410-414 nm.
        The concentration of the RBC was first determined and the cells were adjusted to
 109/mL,   and stored at this concentration.    Before use, the cells were diluted in assay
buffer to 108/mL, and then 100 ul per well was used. Hemolysis was measured at 410
414 nm (allowing for greater sensitivity than 541nm).           Dilutions of test sera were
prepared in ice-cold BBS/gelatin/Mg"/Ca".          100 l of each serum dilution was pipetted
into round-bottomed plate. 100 tl of appropriately diluted RBC preparation was added
(i.e., 108/mL), incubated at 37'C for about 1 hour, and observed for lysis. (The plates
may be photographed at this point.) The plate was then spun down at maximum speed for
5 minutes. 100 pl of the fluid phase was aspirated, transferred to flat-bottom plates, and
the OD was recorded at 410-414 nm. The RBC pellets were retained (these can be
subsequently lysed with water to obtain an inverse result).
        Experiment #1
        Fresh blood was obtained from CD55/CD59 double-deficient mice and blood of
Crry/C3 double-deficient mice and erythrocytes were prepared as described in detail in
the above protocol. The cells were split and half of the cells were coated with mannan
and the other half were left untreated, adjusting the final concentration to 108/mL, of
which 100 pl was used in the hemolysis assay, which was carried out as described above.
        Results of Experiment #1: The lectin pathway is involved in erythrocyte lysis
in the PNH animal model
        In an initial experiment, it was determined that non-coated WT mouse
erythrocytes were not lysed in any mouse serum. It was further determined that mannan
coated Crry-/- mouse erythrocytes were slowly lysed (more than 3 hours at 37 degrees) in
WT mouse serum, but they were not lysed in MBL null serum. (Data not shown).
        It was determined that mannan-coated Crry-/- mouse erythrocytes were rapidly
lysed in human serum but not in heat-inactivated NHS.           Importantly, mannan-coated
Crry-/- mouse erythrocytes were lysed in NHS diluted down to 1/640 (i.e., 1/40, 1/80,
1/160, 1/320 and 1/640 dilutions all lysed). (Data not shown).          In this dilution, the
alternative pathway does not work (AP functional activity is significantly reduced below
8% serum concentration).
                                             -121-

        Conclusions from Experiment #1
        Mannan-coated Crry-/- mouse erythrocytes are very well lysed in highly diluted
human serum with MBL but not in that without MBL. The efficient lysis in every serum
concentration tested implies that the alternative pathway is not involved or needed for this
lysis.   The inability of MBL-deficient mouse serum and human serum to lyse the
mannan-coated Cry-/- mouse erythrocytes indicates that the classical pathway also has
nothing to do with the lysis observed.       As lectin pathway recognition molecules are
required (i.e., MBL), this lysis is mediated by the lectin pathway.
        Experiment #2
        Fresh blood was obtained from the Crry/C3 and CD55/CD59 double-deficient
mice and mannan-coated Crry-/- mouse erythrocytes were analyzed in the haemolysis
assay as described above in the presence of the following human serum: MASP-3            -/
MBL null; WT; NHS pretreated with human MASP-2 antibody; and heat-inactivated
NHS as a control.
        Results of Experiment #2: MASP-2 inhibitors and MASP-3 deficiency prevents
erythrocyte lysis in PNH animal model
        With the mannan-coated Crry-/- mouse erythrocytes, NHS was incubated in the
dilutions diluted down to 1/640 (i.e., 1/40, 1/80, 1/160, 1/320 and 1/640), human MBL-/
serum, human MASP-3-deficient serum (from 3MC patient), and NHS pretreated with
MASP-2 mAb, and heat-inactivated NHS as a control.
        The ELISA microtiter plate was spun down and the non-lysed erythrocytes were
collected on the bottom of the round-well plate.         The supernatant of each well was
collected and the amount of hemoglobin released from the lysed erythrocytes was
measured by reading the OD415 nm in an ELISA reader.
        It was observed that MASP-3-/- serum did not lyse mannan-coated mouse
erythrocytes at all. In the control heat-inactivated NHS (negative control), as expected,
no lysis was observed. MBL-/- human serum lysed mannan-coated mouse erythrocytes at
1/8 and 1/16 dilutions. MASP-2-antibody-pretreated NHS lysed mannan-coated mouse
erythrocytes at 1/8 and 1/16 dilutions while WT human serum lysed mannan-coated
mouse erythrocytes down to dilutions of 1/32.
        FIGURE 21 graphically illustrates hemolysis (as measured by hemoglobin
release of lysed mouse erythrocytes (Crry/C3-/-) into the supernatant measured by
                                            -122-

photometry) of mannan-coated murine erythrocytes by human serum over a range of
serum dilutions in serum from MASP-3-/-, heat-inactivated (HI) NHS, MBL-/-, NHS
pretreated with MASP-2 antibody, and NHS control.
        FIGURE 22 graphically illustrates hemolysis (as measured by hemoglobin
release of lysed mouse erythrocytes (Crry/C3-/-) into the supernatant measured by
photometry) of mannan-coated urine erythrocytes by human serum over a range of
serum concentration in serum from MASP-3-/-, heat-inactivated (HI) NHS, MBL-/-, NHS
pretreated with MASP-2 antibody, and NHS control.
        From the results shown in FIGURE 21 and 22, it is demonstrated that inhibiting
MASP-3 will prevent any complement-mediated lysis of sensitized erythrocytes with
deficient protection from autologous complement activation.    MASP-2 inhibition with
MASP-2 antibody significantly shifted the CH 50 and was protective to some extent, but
MASP-3 inhibition was more effective.
        Experiment #3
        Non-coated Crry-/- mouse erythrocytes obtained from fresh blood from the
Crry/C3 and CD55/CD59 double-deficient mice were analyzed in the hemolysis assay as
described above in the presence of the following sera: MASP-3-/-; MBL-/-; WT; NHS
pretreated with human MASP-2 antibody, and heat-inactivated NHS as a control.
        Results:
        FIGURE 23 graphically illustrates hemolysis (as measured by hemoglobin
release of lysed WT mouse erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by photometry) of
non-coated murine erythrocytes over a range of serum concentrations in human sera from
a 3MC (MASP-3-/-) patient, heat inactivated (HI) NHS, MBL-/-, NHS pretreated with
MASP-2 antibody, and NHS control.       As shown in FIGURE 23 and summarized in
TABLE 12, it is demonstrated that inhibiting MASP-3 inhibits complement-mediated
lysis of non-sensitized WT mouse erythrocytes.
        FIGURE 24 graphically illustrates hemolysis (as measured by hemoglobin
release of lysed mouse erythrocytes (CD55/59 -/-) into the supernatant measured by
photometry) of non-coated murine erythrocytes by human serum over a range of serum
concentrations in human sera from heat-inactivated (HI) NHS, MBL-/-, NHS pretreated
with MASP-2 antibody, and NHS control. As shown in FIGURE 24 and summarized in
TABLE 12, it is demonstrated that inhibiting MASP-2 was protective to a limited extent.
                                         -123-

        TABLE 12: CH 50 values expressed as serum concentrations
Serum                            WT                            CD55/59 -/
3MC patient                      No lysis                     No lysis
Heat-inactivated NHS             No lysis                     No lysis
MBL AO/XX donor                  7.2%                          2.1%
(MBL deficient)
NHS + MASP-2 antibody            5.4%                          1.5%
NHS                              3.1%                          0.73%
        Note: "CH 50 " is the point at which complement-mediated hemolysis reachs 50%.
        In summary, the results in this Example demonstrate that inhibiting MASP-3
prevents any complement lysis of sensitized and non-sensitized erythrocytes with
deficient protection from autologous complement activation. MASP-2 inhibition also is
protective to some extent.      Therefore, MASP-2 and MASP-3 inhibitors alone or in
combination (i.e., co-administered, administered sequentially) or MASP-2/MASP-3
bispecific or dual inhibitors may be used to treat subjects suffering from PNH, and may
also be used to ameliorate (i.e., inhibit, prevent or reduce the severity of) extravascular
hemolysis in PNH patients undergoing treatment with a C5 inhibitor such as eculizumab
(Soliris@).
                                        EXAMPLE 6
        This Example describes a hemolysis assay testing mannan-coated rabbit
erythrocytes for lysis in the presence of WT or MASP-1/3-/- mouse sera.
        Methods:
        1.  Hemolysis assay of rabbit RBC (mannan coated) in mouse MASP-1/3
            deficient sera and WT control sera
        Day 1. Preparation of rabbit RBC.
        Materials included: fresh rabbit blood, BBS/ MgU*/Ca+* (4.4 mM barbituric acid,
1.8 mM sodium barbitone, 145 mM NaCl, pH 7.4, 5 mM Mg", 5 mM Ca7), BBS/
Mg"/Ca'     with 0. 1% gelatin, chromium chloride contained in buffer; i.e., CrCl 3.6 H 2 0
(0.5 mg /mL in BBS/ Mg/Ca") and mannan, 100 ptg/mL in BBS/ Mg/Ca".
        1.      Rabbit whole blood (2 mL) was split into two 1.5 mL eppendorf tubes and
centrifuged for 3 minutes at 8000 rpm (approximately 5.9 rcf) in a refrigerated eppendorf
                                             -124-

centrifuge at 4'C. The RBC pellet was washed three times after re-suspending in ice-cold
BBS/Mg      /Ca H.    After the third wash, the pellet was re-suspended in 4 mL
BBS/Mg7+/Ca7+. Two mL of this aliquot were added to a 15-mL falcon tube to be used
as the uncoated control. The remaining 2 mL of the RBCs aliquot were diluted in 2 mL
of CrCl 3 buffer, 2 mL of the mannan solution were added and the suspension was
incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes with gentle mixing.        The reaction was
terminated by adding 7.5 mL of BBS/0.1% gelatin/Mg m /Ca+* to the mixture.            The
erythrocytes were pelleted and the RBCs were washed twice with BBS/0.1%
gelatin/Mg+*/Ca** as described above. The RBCs suspension was stored in BBS/0.1%
gelatin/ MgU+/Ca++ at 4 0C.
        2.      100 pl of suspended RBCs were diluted with 1.4 mL water and spun down
at 8000 rpm (approximately 5.9 rcf) for 3 minutes and the OD of the supernatant was
adjusted to 0.7 at 541nm (an OD of 0.7 at 541nm corresponds to approximately 109
erythrocytes/mL).
        3.      The re-suspended RBCs were diluted with BBS/0.1% gelatin/Mg+*/Ca+* to
a concentration of I08 /L.
        4.      Dilutions of the test sera were prepared in ice-cold BBS/gelatin/
Mg/Ca' and 100 pl of each serum dilution were pipetted into the corresponding well of
round-bottom plate. 100 pl of appropriately diluted RBC (108/mL) were added to each
well. As a control for complete lysis, purified water (100 tL) was mixed with the diluted
RBC (100 pL) to cause 100% lysis, while BBS/0.1% gelatin/ MgU*/Ca** without serum
(100 pL) was used as a negative control. The plate was then incubated for 1 hour at 370 C.
         5.     The round-bottom plate was centrifuged at 3250 rpm for 5 minutes. The
supernatant from each well (100 pL) was transferred into the corresponding wells of a
flat-bottom plate and OD was read in an ELISA reader at 415-490nm. Results are
reported as the ratio of the OD at 415 nm to that at 49 Onm.
Results:
        FIGURE 25 graphically illustrates hemolysis (as measured by hemoglobin
release of lysed rabbit erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by photometry) of
mannan-coated rabbit erythrocytes by mouse serum over a range of serum concentrations
in serum from MASP-1/3-/- and WT control.              As shown in FIGURE 25, it is
demonstrated that inhibiting MASP-3 prevents complement-mediated lysis of mannan
                                           -125-

coated WT rabbit erythrocytes.        These results further support the use of MASP-3
inhibitors for the treatment of one or more aspects of PNH as described in Example 5.
                                       EXAMPLE 7
        This Example demonstrates that the alternative pathway is activated in factor D
deficient serum in the presence of Ca>*.
        Experiment #1: C3b deposition assay under alternative pathway specific
conditions
        Methods:
        A C3b deposition assay on a zymosan-coated microtiter plate was carried out
under alternative pathway-specific conditions (BBS/EGTA/Mg7*,            no Ca++) using
increasing dilutions of the following mouse sera: factor D-/-; MASP- -/-; and WT.
        Results:
        FIGURE 26 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition (OD 405 nm) as a
function of serum concentration in serum samples from factor D-/-, MASP-2 -/-; and WT
mice sera in a C3 deposition assay carried out under alternative pathway specific
conditions. As shown in FIGURE 26, under these conditions, factor D -/- mouse serum
does not activate C3 at all and the alternative pathway is not working. MASP-2-/- serum
shows alternative pathway activation at a similar rate as WT serum.          These results
confirm that, in the absence of Ca7-, factor D is required for C3b deposition. This is
consistent with the evidence that MASP-3 cannot be converted into its enzymatically
active form under these conditions because the interactions of MASP-1, the MASP-3
activating enzyme, and MASP-3           with their respective carbohydrate recognition
components is Ca**-dependent.
        Experiment #2: C3b deposition assay under physiological conditions
        Methods:
        A    C3b     deposition  assay   was    carried under   physiological   conditions
(BBS/Ca7'/Mg7*) (allowing both the LP and AP to function) using increasing dilutions of
the following mouse sera: factor D -/-; MASP-2 -/-; and WT.
                                            -126-

        Results:
        FIGURE 27 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition (OD 405 nm) as a
function of serum concentration using samples of sera from factor D-/-; MASP-2-/-; and
WT mice in a C3b deposition assay carried out under physiological conditions (in the
presence of Ca++). As shown in FIGURE 27, factor D-/- mouse serum activates C3 via
both the lectin and the alternative pathway with no difference as compared to WT serum
through the serum dilutions indicated. MASP- -/- serum shows the turnover of C3 in
lower serum dilutions by the alternative pathway only (i.e., MASP-3-driven alternative
pathway activation). These results indicate that in the presence of Ca+*, factor D is not
required given that MASP-3 can drive alternative pathway activity.
        Experiment #3: C3b Deposition Assay Using Mouse Sera deficient in factor B
or factor D in the presence or absence ofMASP-2 mAb
        Methods:
        A C3b deposition assay was carried out under physiological conditions
(BBS/CaU+/Mg++) on mannan coated microtiter plates as follows:
        1. Micro-titer ELISA plates were coated overnight at 4'C with mannan (1
            pg/mL) in coating buffer (15 mM Na 2 CO 3 , 35 mM NaHCo 3 , 0.02% sodium
           azide, pH 9.6).
        2. The next day, residual protein binding sites were blocked for 2 hours at room
           temperature with 250 pl/well with 0.1% HSA in BBS (4 mM barbital, 145
           mM NaCl, 2 mM CaCl 2, 1 mM MgC 2 , pH 7.4).
        3. Plates were washed three times with wash buffer (TBS with 0.05% Tween 20
           and 5 mM CaCl 2 ).
        4. 1:10 diluted serum samples in BBS were added to the wells at the specified
           time points. Wells receiving only buffer were used as negative controls. The
           plate was incubated at 370 C for up to 40 minutes.
        5. The plates were then washed 3 times with the wash buffer.
        6. Then 100 pl of rabbit anti-human C3c (Dako) diluted 1:5000 in washing
           buffer was added to the wells and plates were incubated for 90 minutes at
           370C.
        7. After being washed for three times with washing buffer, 100 pl of alkaline
           phosphatase-conjugated anti-rabbit diluted 1:5000 in washing buffer was
           added to the wells followed by incubation for 90 minutes at room temperature.
                                           -127-

        8. After washing, alkaline phosphatase was detected by adding 100 pl of
            substrate solution.
        9. After incubation for 15 minutes, the optical density was measured at OD 405
            nm.
        Results:
        FIGURE 28 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition (OD 405 nm) as a
function of serum incubation time (minutes) in mouse serum samples obtained from
factor D-/- or factor B-/- mice in the presence or absence of MASP-2 mAb in a C3b
deposition assay carried out under physiological conditions (in the presence of Ca"). As
shown in FIGURE 28, there is no difference in the amount of C3b deposition in WT and
factor D-/- serum, providing strong support for the conclusion that MASP-3 can initiate
alternative pathway activation, even in the absence of factor D. The observed signal is
thought to be due to both lectin pathway and alternative pathway activation. As further
shown in FIGURE 28, factor D-/- plus MASP-2 mAb shows MASP-3-mediated
alternative pathway activation only. The factor B-/- plus MASP-2 mAb was background
only (data not shown). Heat-inactivated serum was used as the background control value,
which was identical to factor D-/- and factor B-/- with MASP-2 (data not shown).
        In summary, the results in this Example demonstrate that factor D is only essential
under non-physiological conditions (i.e. when testing for alternative pathway activation in
BBS/EGTA/ Mg" in the absence of Ca").            In contrast, when testing for alternative
pathway activation under physiological conditions (in the presence of Ca"), which
allows the alternative pathway to be activated via MASP-3, factor D-deficient serum is
not at all deficient in alternative pathway activity as compared to the WT control.
Therefore, under physiological conditions, factor D is redundant, in that the initiation of
alternative pathway activation is driven by MASP-3.            These results support the
conclusion that the lectin pathway directs AP activation through a MASP-3-dependent
activation event.
                                           -128-

                                       EXAMPLE 8
        This example describes exemplary methods for producing murine monoclonal
antibodies against human MASP-1,          MASP-2     or MASP-3 polypeptides, and for
generating dual, bispecific or pan-specific MASP antibodies.
        1. Methods for generating MASP antibodies
        Male A/J mice (Harlan, Houston, Tex.), 8 to 12 weeks of age, are injected
subcutaneously with 100 [tg human full-length polypeptides: rMASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10),
rMASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5) or rMASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8), or antigen fragments thereof, for
example as set forth in TABLE 2, in complete Freund's adjuvant (Difco Laboratories,
Detroit, Mich.) in 200 il of phosphate buffered saline (PBS) pH 7.4. Two weeks later,
themice are injected subcutaneously with 50 [ig of the same human polypeptide in
incomplete Freund's adjuvant. At the sixth week, the mice are injected with 50 ptg of the
same human polypeptide in PBS and are fused 4 days later.
        For each fusion, single-cell suspensions are prepared from the spleen of an
immunized mouse and used for fusion with Sp2/0 myeloma cells. 5x10 8 of the Sp2/0 and
5x10 8 spleen cells are fused in a medium containing 50% polyethylene glycol
(M.W. 1450) (Kodak, Rochester, N.Y.) and 5% dimethylsulfoxide (Sigma Chemical Co.,
St. Louis, Mo.). The cells are then adjusted to a concentration of 1.5x 105 spleen cells per
200 pil of the suspension in Iscove medium (Gibco, Grand Island, N.Y.), supplemented
with 10% fetal bovine serum, 100 units/mL of penicillin, 100 p.g/mL of streptomycin,
0.1 mM hypoxanthine, 0.4 pLM aminopterin and 16 piM thymidine.               Two hundred
microliters of the cell suspension are added to each well contained in roughly twenty
96-well microculture plates. After about ten days, culture supernatants are withdrawn for
screening for reactivity with the target purified antigen (MASP-1, MASP-2 or MASP-3,
or the antigen fragment from TABLE 2) in an ELISA assay.
        ELISA Assay (described with reference to MASP-2):            Wells of Immulon 2
(Dynatech Laboratories, Chantilly, Va.) microtest plates are coated by adding 50 p1l of
purified hMASP-2 at 50 ng/mL overnight at room temperature. The low concentration of
MASP-2 used for coating enables the selection of high-affinity antibodies. After the
coating solution is removed by flicking the plate, 200 pil of BLOTTO (non-fat dry milk)
in PBS is added to each well for one hour to block the non-specific sites. An hour later,
the wells are then washed with a buffer PBST (PBS containing 0.05% Tween 20). The
culture supernatants from each fusion well (50 uL) are mixed with 50 pl of BLOTTO and
                                            -129-

then added to individual MASP-2-coated wells of the microtest plates. After one hour of
incubation, the wells are washed with PBST and antibody binding to MASP-2 is detected
by adding horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Fc specific)
(Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, Pa.). The HRP-conjugated anti
mouse IgG is diluted appropriately in BLOTTO to provide an appropriate signal to noise
ratio, and added to each sample-containing well.       After washing, the bound HRP
conjugated antibody is detected with the peroxidase substrate solution. Peroxidase
substrate solution containing 0.1% 3,3,5,5 tetramethyl benzidine (Sigma, St. Louis, Mo.)
and 0.0003% hydrogen peroxide (Sigma) is added to the wells for color development for
30 minutes. The reaction is terminated by addition of 50 pl of 2M H2 SO 4 per well and
the optical density at 450 nm of the reaction mixture is measured with a BioTek ELISA
Reader (BioTek Instruments, Winooski, Vt.).
        Binding Assay (described with reference to MASP-2):
        Culture supernatants that test positive in the MASP-2 ELISA assay described
above can be tested in a binding assay to determine the binding affinity that the MASP-2
inhibitory agents have for MASP-2. A similar assay can also be used to determine if the
inhibitory agents bind to other antigens in the complement system.
        Polystyrene microtiter plate wells (96-well medium binding plates, Coming
Costar, Cambridge, MA) are coated with MASP-2              (20 ng/100 pil/well, Advanced
Research Technology, San Diego, CA) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) pH 7.4
overnight at 4'C. After aspirating the MASP-2 solution, wells are blocked with PBS
containing 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA; Sigma Chemical) for 2 hours at room
temperature. Wells without MASP-2 coating serve as the background controls. Aliquots
of hybridoma supematants or purified MASP-2 MoAbs, at varying concentrations in BSA
PBS blocking solution, are added to the wells. Following a two-hour incubation at room
temperature, the wells are extensively rinsed with PBS. MASP-2-bound MASP-2 MoAb
is detected by the addition of peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Sigma
Chemical) in blocking solution, which is allowed to incubate for Ihour at room
temperature.      The plate is rinsed again thoroughly with PBS, and 100 pl of
3,3',5,5'-tetramethyl benzidine (TMB) substrate (Kirkegaard and Perry Laboratories,
Gaithersburg, MD) is added. The reaction of TMB is quenched by the addition of 100 pl
of 1M phosphoric acid, and the plate is read at 450 nm in a microplate reader (SPECTRA
MAX 250, Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA).
                                            -130-

        The culture supernatants from the positive wells are then tested for the ability to
inhibit complement activation in a functional assay such as the C4 cleavage assay as
described herein (Example 9).      The cells in positive wells are then cloned by limiting
dilution. The MoAbs are tested again for reactivity with hMASP-2 in an ELISA assay as
described above. The selected hybridomas are grown in spinner flasks and the spent
culture   supernatant    collected  for antibody purification     by   protein A    affinity
chromatography.
        MASP-2 antibodies may be assayed for LEA-2 inhibitory activity in a C4
cleavage assay, for example as described in Example 9.
        While the ELISA and Binding Assay above are described with reference to
MASP-2, it will be understood by those of skill in the art that the same ELISA and
binding assays may be carried out using MASP-1 or MASP-3 polypeptides and antigen
fragments thereof (e.g., as described in TABLE 2). MASP-3 antibodies may be assayed
for inhibition of MASP-3 serine protease cleavage of a MASP-3 substrate and for LEA-I
inhibitory activity in a C3b deposition assay, for example as described in Example 4, in a
hemolysis assay as described in Example 5. MASP-1 antibodies may be assayed for
inhibition of MASP-1 serine protease cleavage of a MASP-1 substrate, for inhibition of
MASP-3 activation, and for LEA-i inhibitory activity in a C3b deposition assay, for
example as described in Example 4, and in a hemolysis assay as described in Example 5.
        2. Methods for Generating Dual-MASP antibodies
        MASP-2/3 dual inhibitory antibodies: As shown in FIGURES 4, 6 and 7C, there
are regions conserved between MASP-2 and MASP-3 in the serine protease domain,
encoded by the beta chain of SEQ ID NO:5 and SEQ ID NO:8. Therefore, a dual MASP
2/3 antibody can be generated using an antigen comprising or consisting of the serine
protease domain of MASP-2 (or MASP-3), such as the beta chain of SEQ ID NO:5 (or
SEQ ID NO:8) to generate a monoclonal antibody as described above, or alternatively,
these antigen(s) may be used to screen a phage library for clones that specifically bind to
these antigen(s), followed by screening for dual binding to MASP-3 (or MASP-1).         The
dual MASP-2/3 antibodies are then screened for inhibitory activity in a functional assay,
for example as described in TABLE 2.
        MASP-1/3 dual inhibitory antibodies: As shown in FIGURES 3-5, MASP-1 and
MASP-3 share an identical conserved region in the CUBI-CCP2 domain (aa 25-432 of
SEQ ID NO:10), which is also shared by MAp44. As shown in FIGURE 3, MAp44 does
                                            -131-

not contain a CCP2 domain. Therefore, a dual MASP-1/3 antibody inclusive of MAp44
is generated using an antigen comprising or consisting of the CUBI-CCP-2 domain of
MASP-1 (or MASP-3) to generate a monoclonal antibody as described above, or
alternatively, this antigen is used to screen a phage library for clones that specifically
bind to this antigen, followed by screening for dual binding to MASP-3 (or MASP-1). A
dual MASP-1/3 antibody exclusive of MAp44 is generated in a similar manner, using an
antigen comprising or consisting of the CCP2 domain of MASP-1 (or MASP-3).             The
dual MASP-1/3 antibodies are then screened for inhibitory activity in a functional assay,
for example as described in TABLE 2.
        MASP-1/2 dual inhibitory antibodies: As shown in FIGURES 4, 6 and 7A, the
serine protease domain of MASP-1 and MASP-2 contains regions that are conserved.
Therefore, a dual MASP-1/2 antibody is generated using an antigen comprising or
consisting of the serine protease domain of MASP-1 (or MASP-2) to generate a
monoclonal antibody as described above, or alternatively, this antigen is used to screen a
phage library for clones that specifically bind to this antigen, followed by screening for
dual binding to MASP-2 (or MASP-1). The dual MASP-1/2 antibodies are then screened
for inhibitory activity in a functional assay, for example as described in TABLE 2.
                    3. Methods for Generating Pan-specific MASP antibodies:
        Alpha Chain: Numerous patches of identity between MASP-2 and MASP-1/3
suggest that it may be possible to generate monoclonal antibodies that bind MASP-1/3
and MASP-2.       In particular, most of the identity lies within the CUB1-EGF-CUB2
domains, as shown in FIGURE 5. The various domains illustrated in FIGURE 5 were
identified according to Yongqing, et al., Biochemica et Biophysica Acta 1824:253-262
(2012); Teillet et al., J. Biol. Chem. 283:25715-25724 (2008); and Marchler-Bauer et al.,
Nucleic Acids Res. 39:D225-229 (2011).
        Beta Chain: Numerous patches of identity between MASP-2 and MASP-1/3, as
shown in FIGURE 6, would allow for the generation of a pan-specific MASP-1/2/3
inhibitor.
        Methods:
        Pan-specific MASP inhibitory antibodies (i.e., antibodies that inhibit MASP-1, 2
and 3 activity) are generated as follows:
         1. Screen a library against MASP-1/3 and MASP-2 Alpha-chain CUBl-EGF
CUB2 domains and select clones that cross-react to both MASP-1/3 and MASP-2.
                                             -132-

        2. Screen the clones for the ability to inhibit functional activity, for example as
described in TABLE 2.
        3. Use the DTLacO affinity/functionality maturation technology (Yabuki et al.,
PLoS ONE, 7(4):e36032 (2012)) to optimize both binding to all three proteins and
inhibitory function.
        4. As described in TABLE 2, pan-MASP inhibitors can be used to inhibit LEA
1- and LEA-2-mediated complement activation.
        4. Methods for generating bispecific MASP-2/3 antibodies
        Bispecific MASP-2/3 inhibitory antibodies are generated as follows:
        1. Exemplary MASP-2 specific inhibitory antibodies that bind to the CCP1
domain and inhibit MASP-2-dependent complement activation have been identified, as
described in Examples 11-14.
        2. A MASP-3 specific inhibitory antibody is generated by screening a library
against the MASP-3 polypeptide and identifying MASP-3 antibodies, as described in
Example 15, followed by assaying the antibodies for LEA-i inhibitory activity in a
functional assay, for example as described in TABLE 2. Exemplary MASP-3 antibodies
are described in Example 15.
        3. The antigen binding region specific for MASP-2 and MASP-3 are cloned into
a framework to generate a bi-specific antibody. Numerous bispecific antibody formats
have been described, including immunoglobulin G-like formats as well as various fusion
protein and single chain variable fragment configurations (Holmes, Nature Reviews, Drug
Discovery 10:798-800 (2011), Miller and Kontermann, Biodrugs 24:89-98 (2010)). In
one example, bispecific antibodies can be generated by fusing two hybridomas expressing
antibodies against two distinct antigens, resulting in various heavy and light chain
pairings, a percentage of which comprise a heavy and light chain specific for one antigen
paired with a heavy and light chain specific for the other antigen (Milstein and Cuello,
Nature 305:537-539 (1983)).         A similar bispecific antibody may be generated
recombinantly, by co-expressing two immunoglobulin heavy-chain/light-chain pairs,
where the two heavy chains have different specificities Antibody variable domains with
the desired binding specificities (antibody-antigen combining sites) (e.g. MASP-2
antibodies as described in Examples 11-14, MASP-3 antibodies as described in Example
15) can be fused to immunoglobulin constant domain sequences. The fusion preferably is
with an immunoglobulin heavy-chain constant domain, including at least part of the
                                           -133-

hinge, CH2 , and CH3 regions. DNAs encoding the immunoglobulin heavy-chain fusions
and, if desired, the immunoglobulin light chain, are inserted into separate expression
vectors, and are co-transfected into a suitable host organism.
        In addition to paired immunoglobulin heavy and light chains, linkage of single
chain variable fragments specific for two different targets is exemplified in Kipriyanov et
al., J. Mol. Biol. 293:41 (1999)).     In this example, a single polynucleotide expression
construct is designed to encode two pairs of heavy and light chain variable regions
separated by linker peptides, with each pair imparting specificity for a distinct protein
target. Upon expression, the polypeptide assembles in a configuration in which the heavy
and light chain pair specific for one target forms one antigen-binding surface of the
protein, and the other pair forms a separate antigen-binding surface, creating a molecule
termed a single chain diabody. Depending on the length of the linker between the central
heavy and light chain variable region pair, the polypeptide can also be forced to dimerize,
resulting in the formation of a tandem diabody.
        For example, DNA encoding the following immunoglobulin polypeptides may be
inserted into one or more vectors and expressed in a suitable host organism to generate
the following illustrative, non-limiting examples of a bi-specific antibodies.
        MASP-2/3 bispecific antibodies
        In one embodiment, a bispecific antibody is provided that binds human MASP-2
and human MASP-3 and comprises:
        (I) a MASP-2 specific binding region comprising at least one or more of the
following:a) a heavy chain variable region comprising: i) a heavy chain CDR1
comprising the amino acid sequence from 31-35 of SEQ ID NO:21; and ii) a heavy chain
CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence from 50-65 of SEQ ID NO:21; and iii) a
heavy chain CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence from 95-102 of SEQ ID NO:21;
and/or at least one or more of the following:b) a light chain variable region comprising: i)
a light chain CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence from 24-34 of either SEQ ID
NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:27; and ii) a light chain CDR2 comprising the amino acid
sequence from 50-56 of either SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:27; and iii) a light chain
CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence from 89-97 of either SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ
ID NO:27; and
        (II) a MASP-3 specific binding region, optionally a MASP-3 specific binding
region comprising at least one of a) a heavy chain variable region comprising: i) a heavy
                                             -134-

chain CDRI comprising the amino acid sequence from 31-35 of SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ
ID NO:26; and ii) a heavy chain CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence from 50-65
of SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:26; and iii) a heavy chain CDR3 comprising the amino
acid sequence from 95-102 of SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:26; and
        b) a light chain variable region comprising: i) a light chain CDR] comprising the
amino acid sequence from 24-34 of either SEQ ID NO:28 or SEQ ID NO:29; and ii) a
light chain CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence from 50-56 of either SEQ ID
NO:28 or SEQ ID NO:29; and iii) a light chain CDR3 comprising the amino acid
sequence from 89-97 of either SEQ ID NO:28 or SEQ ID NO:29.
        MASP-1/2 bispecific antibodies
        In one embodiment, a bispecific antibody is provided that binds human MASP-1
and human MASP-2 and comprises:
        (I) a MASP-2 specific binding region comprising at least one or more of the
following:a) a heavy-chain variable region comprising:           i) a heavy-chain CDR1
comprising the amino acid sequence from 31-35 of SEQ ID NO:21; and ii) a heavy-chain
CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence from 50-65 of SEQ ID NO:21; and iii) a
heavy-chain CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence from 95-102 of SEQ ID NO:21;
and/or at least one or more of the following:b) a light-chain variable region comprising: i)
a light-chain CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence from 24-34 of either SEQ ID
NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:27; and ii) a light chain CDR2 comprising the amino acid
sequence from 50-56 of either SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:27; and iii) a light-chain
CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence from 89-97 of either SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ
ID NO:27; and
        (II) a MASP- 1 specific binding region.
        4. Testing for functional inhibitory activity against MASP-2 and/or MASP-3 is
carried out, for example as described in TABLE 2, and as further described herein.
                                        EXAMPLE 9
        This example describes an in vitro C4 cleavage assay used as a functional screen
to identify MASP-2        inhibitory   agents capable    of blocking MASP-2-dependent
complement activation via L-ficolin/P35, H-ficolin, M-ficolin or mannan.
        C4 Cleavage Assay:        A C4 cleavage assay has been described by Petersen,
S.V., et al., J. Immunol. Methods 257:107, 2001, which measures lectin pathway
activation resulting from lipoteichoic acid (LTA) on S. aureus, which binds to L-ficolin.
                                            -135-

        Reagents:     Formalin-fixed S. aureus (DSM20233) is prepared as follows:
bacteria is grown overnight at 37'C in tryptic soy blood medium, washed three times with
PBS, then fixed for 1 hour at room temperature in PBS/0.5% formalin, and washed a
further three times with PBS, before being resuspended in coating buffer (15 mM
Na 2 CO 3 , 35 mM NaHCO 3 , pH 9.6).
        Assay:     The wells of a Nunc MaxiSorb microtiter plate (Nalgene Nunc
International, Rochester, NY) are coated with: 100 I of formalin-fixed S. aureus
DSM20233 (OD      55 0 = 0.5) in coating buffer with 1 pig of L-ficolin in coating buffer.
After overnight incubation, wells are blocked with 0.1% human serum albumin (HSA) in
TBS (10 mM Tris-HCI, 140 mM NaCl, pH 7.4), then are washed with TBS containing
0.05% Tween 20 and 5 mM CaCl 2 (wash buffer). Human serum samples are diluted in
20 mM Tris-HCl, 1 M NaCI, 10 mM CaCl 2 , 0.05% Triton X-100, 0.1% HSA, pH 7.4,
which prevents activation of endogenous C4 and dissociates the C1 complex (composed
of Clq, Clr and Cis). MASP-2 inhibitory agents, including MASP-2 MoAbs, are added
to the serum samples in varying concentrations.      The diluted samples are added to the
plate and incubated overnight at 4'C. After 24 hours, the plates are washed thoroughly
with wash buffer, then 0.1 ptg of purified human C4 (obtained as described in Dodds,
A.W., Methods Enzynol. 223:46, 1993) in 100 pl of 4 mM barbital, 145 mM NaCl, 2 mM
CaCl 2 , 1 mM MgCl 2 , pH 7.4 is added to each well. After 1.5 hours at 370 C, the plates
are washed again and C4b deposition is detected using alkaline phosphatase-conjugated
chicken anti-human C4c (obtained from Immunsystem, Uppsala, Sweden) and measured
using the colorimetric substrate p-nitrophenyl phosphate.
        C4 Assay on mannan: The assay described above is adapted to measure lectin
pathway activation via MBL by coating the plate with LSP and mannan prior to adding
serum mixed with various MASP-2 inhibitory agents.
        C4 assay on H-ficolin (Hakata Ag): The assay described above is adapted to
measure lectin pathway activation via H-ficolin by coating the plate with LPS and
H-ficolin prior to adding serum mixed with various MASP-2 inhibitory agents.
                                       EXAMPLE 10
        The following assay is used to test whether a MASP inhibitory agent blocks the
classical pathway by analyzing the effect of a MASP inhibitory agent under conditions in
which the classical pathway is initiated by immune complexes.
                                           -136-

         Methods:    To test the effect of a MASP inhibitory agent on conditions of
complement activation where the classical pathway is initiated by immune complexes,
triplicate 50 pl samples containing 90% NHS are incubated at 370 C in the presence of
10 pg/mL immune complex or PBS, and parallel triplicate samples (+/- immune
complexes) are also included containing 200 nM anti-properdin monoclonal antibody
during the 370 C incubation. After a two-hour incubation at 370 C, 13 mM EDTA is added
to all samples to stop further complement activation and the samples are immediately
cooled to 5'C.      The samples are then stored at -70'C prior to being assayed for
complement activation products (C3a and sC5b-9) using ELISA kits (Quidel, Catalog
Nos. AO 15 and A009) following the manufacturer's instructions.
                                      EXAMPLE 11
         This example describes the identification of high-affinity MASP-2 Fab2 antibody
fragments that block MASP-2 activity.
         Background and rationale: MASP-2 is a complex protein with many separate
functional domains, including: binding site(s) for MBL and ficolins, a serine protease
catalytic site, a binding site for proteolytic substrate C2, a binding site for proteolytic
substrate C4, a MASP-2 cleavage site for autoactivation of MASP-2 zymogen, and two
Ca- binding sites. Fab2 antibody fragments were identified that bind with high affinity
to MASP-2, and the identified Fab2 fragments were tested in a functional assay to
determine if they were able to block MASP-2 functional activity.
         To block MASP-2 functional activity, an antibody or Fab2 antibody fragment
must bind and interfere with a structural epitope on MASP-2 that is required for MASP-2
functional activity. Therefore, many or all of the high-affinity binding MASP-2 Fab2s
may not inhibit MASP-2 functional activity unless they bind to structural epitopes on
MASP-2 that are directly involved in MASP-2 functional activity.
         A functional assay that measures inhibition of lectin pathway C3 convertase
formation was used to evaluate the "blocking activity" of MASP-2 Fab2s. It is known
that the primary physiological role of MASP-2 in the lectin pathway is to generate the
next functional component of the lectin-mediated complement pathway, namely the lectin
pathway C3 convertase.       The lectin pathway C3 convertase is a critical enzymatic
complex (C4bC2a) that proteolytically cleaves C3 into C3a and C3b. MASP-2 is not a
structural component of the lectin pathway C3 convertase (C4bC2a); however, MASP-2
                                            -137-

functional activity is required in order to generate the two protein components (C4b, C2a)
that comprise the lectin pathway C3 convertase.            Furthermore, all of the separate
functional activities of MASP-2 listed above appear to be required in order for MASP-2
to generate the lectin pathway C3 convertase. For these reasons, a preferred assay to use
in evaluating the "blocking activity" of MASP-2 Fab2s is believed to be a functional
assay that measures inhibition of lectin pathway C3 convertase formation.
        Generation of High Affinity Fab2s: A phage display library of human variable
light and heavy chain antibody sequences and automated antibody selection technology
for identifying Fab2s that react with selected ligands of interest was used to create high
affinity Fab2s to rat MASP-2 protein (SEQ ID NO:13). A known amount of rat MASP-2
(-1 mg, >85% pure) protein was utilized for antibody screening.            Three rounds of
amplification were utilized for selection of the antibodies with the best affinity.
Approximately 250 different hits expressing antibody fragments were picked for ELISA
screening. High affinity hits were subsequently sequenced to determine uniqueness of
the different antibodies.
        Fifty unique MASP-2 antibodies were purified and 250 pg of each purified Fab2
antibody was used for characterization of MASP-2 binding affinity and complement
pathway functional testing, as described in more detail below.
        Assays used to Evaluate the Inhibitory (blocking) Activity of MASP-2 Fab2s
        1.      Assay to Measure Inhibition of Formation of Lectin Pathway C3
Convertase:
        Background:      The lectin pathway C3 convertase is the enzymatic complex
(C4bC2a) that proteolytically cleaves C3 into the two potent proinflammatory fragments,
anaphylatoxin C3a and opsonic C3b. Formation of C3 convertase appears to be a key
step in the lectin pathway in terms of mediating inflammation.           MASP-2 is not a
structural component of the lectin pathway C3 convertase (C4bC2a); therefore MASP-2
antibodies (or Fab2) will not directly inhibit activity of preexisting C3 convertase.
However, MASP-2 serine protease activity is required in order to generate the two protein
components (C4b, C2a) that comprise the lectin pathway C3 convertase.            Therefore,
MASP-2 Fab2, which inhibits MASP-2 functional activity (i.e., blocking MASP-2 Fab2)
will inhibit de novo formation of lectin pathway C3 convertase. C3 contains an unusual
and highly reactive thioester group as part of its structure. Upon cleavage of C3 by C3
convertase in this assay, the thioester group on C3b can form a covalent bond with
                                             -138-

hydroxyl or amino groups on macromolecules immobilized on the bottom of the plastic
wells via ester or amide linkages, thus facilitating detection of C3b in the ELISA assay.
        Yeast mannan is a known activator of the lectin pathway.            In the following
method to measure formation of C3 convertase, plastic wells coated with mannan were
incubated for 30 minutes at 37'C with diluted rat serum to activate the lectin pathway.
The wells were then washed and assayed for C3b immobilized onto the wells using
standard ELISA methods.        The amount of C3b generated in this assay is a direct
reflection of the de novo formation of lectin pathway C3 convertase. MASP-2 Fab2s at
selected concentrations were tested in this assay for their ability to inhibit C3 convertase
formation and consequent C3b generation.
        Methods:
        96-well Costar Medium Binding plates were incubated overnight at 5'C with
mannan diluted in 50 mM carbonate buffer, pH 9.5 at 1 pg/50 pl/well. After overnight
incubation, each well was washed three times with 200 pl PBS. The wells were then
blocked with 100 pl/well of 1%bovine serum albumin in PBS and incubated for one hour
at room temperature with gentle mixing. Each well was then washed three times with
200 p1l of PBS. The MASP-2 Fab2 samples were diluted to selected concentrations in
Ca_ and Mg+ containing GVB buffer (4.0 mM barbital, 141 mM NaCl, 1.0 mM MgCl 2,
2.0 mM CaCl 2, 0.1% gelatin, pH 7.4) at 5'C. A 0.5% rat serum was added to the above
samples at 5OC and 100 ptl was transferred to each well.           Plates were covered and
incubated for 30 minutes in a 37'C waterbath to allow complement activation.             The
reaction was stopped by transferring the plates from the 37'C waterbath to a container
containing an ice-water mix.      Each well was washed five times with 200 pl with
PBS-Tween 20 (0.05% Tween 20 in PBS), then washed two times with 200 pl PBS. A
100 pl/well of 1:10,000 dilution of the primary antibody (rabbit anti-human C3c, DAKO
A0062) was added in PBS containing 2.0 mg/mL bovine serum albumin and incubated 1
hour at room temperature with gentle mixing. Each well was washed 5 times with 200 pl
PBS. 100 pl/well of 1:10,000 dilution of the secondary antibody (peroxidase-conjugated
goat anti-rabbit IgG, American Qualex A102PU) was added in PBS containing
2.0 mg/mL bovine serum albumin and incubated for one hour at room temperature on a
shaker with gentle mixing. Each well was washed five times with 200 pl with PBS. 100
pl/well of the peroxidase substrate TMB (Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories) was added
                                            -139-

and incubated at room temperature for 10 minutes. The peroxidase reaction was stopped
by adding 100 TL/well of 1.0 M H 3P0     4 and the OD 450 was measured.
        2.      Assay to Measure Inhibition of MASP-2-dependent C4 Cleavage
        Background: The serine protease activity of MASP-2 is highly specific and only
two protein substrates for MASP-2 have been identified; C2 and C4. Cleavage of C4
generates C4a and C4b. MASP-2 Fab2 may bind to structural epitopes on MASP-2 that
are directly involved in C4 cleavage (e.g., MASP-2 binding site for C4; MASP-2 serine
protease catalytic site) and thereby inhibit the C4 cleavage functional activity of
MASP-2.
        Yeast mannan is a known activator of the lectin pathway.          In the following
method to measure the C4 cleavage activity of MASP-2, plastic wells coated with
mannan were incubated for 30 minutes at 37'C with diluted rat serum to activate the
lectin pathway. Since the primary antibody used in this ELISA assay only recognizes
human C4, the diluted rat serum was also supplemented with human C4 (1.0            tg/mL).
The wells were then washed and assayed for human C4b immobilized onto the wells
using standard ELISA methods. The amount of C4b generated in this assay is a measure
of MASP-2-dependent C4 cleavage activity. MASP-2 Fab2 at selected concentrations
was tested in this assay for ability to inhibit C4 cleavage.
        Methods:     96-well Costar Medium Binding plates were incubated overnight at
5'C with mannan diluted in 50 mM carbonate buffer, pH 9.5 at 1.0 Tg/50 tl/well. Each
well was washed 3 times with 200 p1l PBS. The wells were then blocked with 100 pl/well
of 1% bovine serum albumin in PBS and incubated for one hour at room temperature
with gentle mixing. Each well was washed 3 times with 200 pl of PBS. MASP-2 Fab2
samples were diluted to selected concentrations in Ca+ and Mg+ containing GVB buffer
(4.0 mM barbital, 141 mM NaCl, 1.0 mM MgCl 2 , 2.0 mM CaCl 2 , 0.1% gelatin, pH 7.4) at
5'C. 1.0 gg/mL human C4 (Quidel) was also included in these samples. 0.5% rat serum
was added to the above samples at 5'C and 100 pl was transferred to each well. The
plates were covered and incubated for 30 minutes in a 37'C waterbath to allow
complement activation. The reaction was stopped by transferring the plates from the
37'C waterbath to a container containing an ice-water mix.          Each well was washed
5 times with 200 pl with PBS-Tween 20 (0.05% Tween 20 in PBS), then each well was
washed with 2 times with 200 il PBS. 100 pl/well of 1:700 dilution of biotin-conjugated
chicken anti-human C4c (Immunsystem AB, Uppsala, Sweden) was added in PBS
                                             -140-

containing 2.0 mg/mL bovine serum albumin (BSA) and incubated one hour at room
temperature with gentle mixing. Each well was washed 5 times with 200 p1l PBS. 100
pl/well of 0.1 pg/mL of peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin (Pierce Chemical #21126)
was added in PBS containing 2.0 mg/mL BSA and incubated for one hour at room
temperature on a shaker with gentle mixing. Each well was washed 5 x 200 p] with PBS.
100 p1/well of the peroxidase substrate TMB (Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories) was
added and incubated at room temperature for 16 min. The peroxidase reaction was
stopped by adding 100 pl/well of 1.0 M H 3 PO 4 and the OD 4 5 0 was measured.
        3.      Binding Assay of anti-rat MASP-2 Fab2 to 'Native' rat MASP-2
        Background: MASP-2 is usually present in plasma as a MASP-2 dimer complex
that also includes specific lectin molecules (mannose-binding protein (MBL) and
ficolins). Therefore, if one is interested in studying the binding of MASP-2 Fab2 to the
physiologically relevant form of MASP-2, it is important to develop a binding assay in
which the interaction between the Fab2 and 'native' MASP-2 in plasma, rather than
purified recombinant MASP-2, is used. In this binding assay, the 'native' MASP-2-MBL
complex from 10% rat serum was first immobilized onto mannan-coated wells.             The
binding affinity of various MASP-2 Fab2s to the immobilized 'native' MASP-2 was then
studied using a standard ELISA methodology.
        Methods: 96-well Costar High Binding plates were incubated overnight at 5'C
with mannan diluted in 50 mM carbonate buffer, pH 9.5 at 1 ptg/50 pil/well. Each well
was washed 3 times with 200 pl PBS. The wells were blocked with 100 pl/well of 0.5%
nonfat dry milk in PBST (PBS with 0.05% Tween 20) and incubated for one hour at room
temperature with gentle mixing.        Each well was washed 3 times with 200 p1 of
TBS/Tween/Ca++ Wash Buffer (Tris-buffered saline, 0.05% Tween 20, containing
5.0 mM CaCl 2, pH 7.4. 10% rat serum in High Salt Binding Buffer (20 mM Tris, 1.0 M
NaCl, 10 mM CaCl 2, 0.05% Triton-XIOO, 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, pH 7.4)
was prepared on ice. 100 pl/well was added and incubated overnight at 50C. Wells were
washed 3 times with 200 ul of TBS/Tween/Ca + Wash Buffer. Wells were then washed 2
times with 200 pl PBS. 100 pl/well of selected concentration of MASP-2 Fab2 diluted in
Ca' and Mg' containing GVB Buffer (4.0mM barbital, 141 mM NaCl, 1.0 mM MgCl 2 ,
2.0 mM CaC 2 , 0.1% gelatin, pH 7.4) was added and incubated for one hour at room
temperature with gentle mixing. Each well was washed 5 times with 200          ul PBS. 100
pl/well of HRP-conjugated goat anti-Fab2 (Biogenesis Cat No 0500-0099) diluted 1:5000
                                            -141-

in 2.0 mg/mL bovine serum albumin in PBS was added and incubated for one hour at
room temperature with gentle mixing. Each well was washed 5 times with 200 pl PBS.
100 pl/well of the peroxidase substrate TMB (Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories) was
added and incubated at room temperature for 70 minutes. The peroxidase reaction was
stopped by adding 100 pl/well of 1.0 M H3 PO 4 and OD45 0 was measured.
       RESULTS:
       Approximately 250 different Fab2s that reacted with high affinity to the rat
MASP-2 protein were picked for ELISA screening.            These high-affinity Fab2s were
sequenced to determine the uniqueness of the different antibodies, and 50 unique
MASP-2 antibodies were purified for further analysis.        250 ug of each purified Fab2
antibody was used for characterization of MASP-2 binding affinity and complement
pathway functional testing. The results of this analysis are shown below in TABLE 13.
  TABLE 13: MASP-2 FAB2 THAT BLOCK LECTIN PATHWAY COMPLEMENT
                                       ACTIVATION
   Fab2 antibody #        C3 Convertase                  Kd               C4 Cleavage
                            (IC 5 0 (nM)               (nM)                IC 5 0 (nM)
         88                     0.32                    4.1                    ND
         41                     0.35                    0.30                   0.81
         11                     0.46                    0.86                  <2nM
         86                     0.53                     1.4                   ND
         81                     0.54                    2.0                    ND
         66                     0.92                    4.5                    ND
         57                     0.95                     3.6                  <2nM
         40                      1.1                     7.2                   0.68
         58                      1.3                    2.6                    ND
         60                      1.6                     3.1                   ND
         52                      1.6                     5.8                  <2nM
         63                      2.0                     6.6                   ND
         49                      2.8                     8.5                  <2nM
         89                      3.0                     2.5                   ND
         71                      3.0                    10.5                   ND
         87                      6.0                    2.5                    ND
         67                     10.0                     7.7                   ND
                                          -142-

         As shown above in TABLE 13, of the 50 MASP-2 Fab2s tested, 17 were
identified as MASP-2-blocking Fab2s that potently inhibit C3 convertase formation with
IC5 0 equal to or less than 10 nM Fab2s (a 34% positive hit rate). Eight of the 17 Fab2s
identified have IC5 0 s in the subnanomolar range.    Furthermore, all seventeen of the
MASP-2 blocking Fab2s shown in TABLE 13 gave essentially complete inhibition of C3
convertase formation in the lectin pathway C3 convertase assay. This is an important
consideration, since it is theoretically possible that a "blocking" Fab2 may only
fractionally inhibit MASP-2 function even when each MASP-2 molecule is bound by the
Fab2.
        Although mannan is a known activator of the lectin pathway, it is theoretically
possible that the presence of anti-mannan antibodies in the rat serum might also activate
the classical pathway and generate C3b via the classical pathway C3 convertase.
However, each of the seventeen blocking MASP-2 Fab2s listed in this example potently
inhibits C3b generation (>95 %), thus demonstrating the specificity of this assay for
lectin pathway C3 convertase.
        Binding assays were also performed with all seventeen of the blocking Fab2s in
order to calculate an apparent Kd for each. The results of the binding assays of anti-rat
MASP-2 Fab2s to native rat MASP-2 for six of the blocking Fab2s are also shown in
TABLE 13. Similar binding assays were also carried out for the other Fab2s, the results
of which are shown in TABLE 13. In general, the apparent Kds obtained for binding of
each of the six Fab2s to 'native' MASP-2 corresponds reasonably well with the IC5 0 for
the Fab2 in the C3 convertase functional assay.        There is evidence that MASP-2
undergoes a conformational change from an 'inactive' to an 'active' form upon activation
of its protease activity (Feinberg et al., EMBO J 22:2348-59 (2003); Gal et al., J. Biol.
Chem. 280:33435-44 (2005)).       In the normal rat plasma used in the C3 convertase
formation assay, MASP-2 is present primarily in the 'inactive' zymogen conformation. In
contrast, in the binding assay, MASP-2 is present as part of a complex with MBL bound
to immobilized mannan; therefore, the MASP-2 would be in the 'active' conformation
(Petersen et al., J. Immunol Methods 257:107-16, 2001). Consequently, one would not
necessarily expect an exact correspondence between the IC 5 0 and Kd for each of the
seventeen blocking Fab2 tested in these two functional assays because, in each assay, the
Fab2 would be binding a different conformational form of MASP-2. Nevertheless, with
the exception of Fab2 #88, there appears to be a reasonably close correspondence
                                            -143-

between the IC5 0 and apparent Kd for each of the other sixteen Fab2 tested in the two
assays (see TABLE 13).
        Several of the blocking Fab2s were evaluated for inhibition of MASP-2-mediated
cleavage of C4. As shown in TABLE 13, all of the Fab2s tested were found to inhibit C4
cleavage with IC5 0s similar to those obtained in the C3 convertase assay.
        Although mannan is a known activator of the lectin pathway, it is theoretically
possible that the presence of anti-mannan antibodies in the rat serum might also activate
the classical pathway and thereby generate C4b by Cls-mediated cleavage of C4.
However, several MASP-2 Fab2s have been identified that potently inhibit C4b
generation (>95 %), thus demonstrating the specificity of this assay for MASP-2
mediated C4 cleavage. C4, like C3, contains an unusual and highly reactive thioester
group as part of its structure.     Upon cleavage of C4 by MASP-2 in this assay, the
thioester group on C4b can form a covalent bond with hydroxyl or amino groups on
macromolecules immobilized on the bottom of the plastic wells via ester or amide
linkages, thus facilitating detection of C4b in the ELISA assay.
        These studies clearly demonstrate the creation of high-affinity FAB2s to rat
MASP-2 protein that functionally block both C4 and C3 convertase activity, thereby
preventing lectin pathway activation.
                                       EXAMPLE 12
        This Example describes the epitope mapping for several of the blocking anti-rat
MASP-2 Fab2 antibodies that were generated as described in Example 11.
        Methods:
        The following proteins, all with N-terminal 6X His tags were expressed in CHO
cells using the pED4 vector:
        rat MASP-2A, a full-length MASP-2 protein, inactivated by altering the serine at
the active center to alanine (S613A);
        rat MASP-2K, a full-length MASP-2 protein altered to reduce autoactivation
(R424K);
        CUBI-Il, an N-terminal fragment of rat MASP-2 that contains the CUBI,
EGF-like and CUBIT domains only; and
        CUBI/EGF-like, an N-terminal fragment of rat MASP-2 that contains the CUBI
and EGF-like domains only.
                                            -144-

        These proteins were purified from culture supernatants by nickel-affinity
chromatography, as previously described (Chen et al., .1. Biol. Chem. 276:25894-02
(2001)).
        A C-terminal polypeptide (CCPII-SP), containing CCPII and the serine protease
domain of rat MASP-2, was expressed in E. coli as a thioredoxin fusion protein using
pTrxFus (Invitrogen).     Protein was purified from cell lysates using Thiobond affinity
resin. The thioredoxin fusion partner was expressed from empty pTrxFus as a negative
control.
        All recombinant proteins were dialyzed into TBS buffer and their concentrations
determined by measuring the OD at 280 nm.
        Dot Blot Analysis:
         Serial dilutions of the five recombinant MASP-2 polypeptides described above
(and the thioredoxin polypeptide as a negative control for CCPII-serine protease
polypeptide) were spotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane.          The amount of protein
spotted ranged from 100 ng to 6.4 pg, in five-fold steps. In later experiments, the amount
of protein spotted ranged from 50 ng down to 16 pg, again in five-fold steps. Membranes
were blocked with 5% skimmed milk powder in TBS (blocking buffer) then incubated
with 1.0 pig/mL MASP-2 Fab2s in blocking buffer (containing 5.0 mM Ca7). Bound
Fab2s were detected using HRP-conjugated anti-human Fab (AbD/Serotec; diluted
1/10,000) and an ECL detection kit (Amersham).        One membrane was incubated with
polyclonal rabbit-anti human MASP-2 Ab (described in Stover et al., J Immunol
163:6848-59 (1999)) as a positive control. In this case, bound Ab was detected using
HRP-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (Dako; diluted 1/2,000).
        MASP-2 Binding Assay:
        ELISA plates were coated with 1.0 pig/well of recombinant MASP-2A or CUBI-II
polypeptide in carbonate buffer (pH 9.0) overnight at 40 C. Wells were blocked with 1%
BSA in TBS, then serial dilutions of the MASP-2 Fab2s were added in TBS containing
5.0 mM Ca.       The plates were incubated for one hour at RT. After washing three times
with TBS/tween/Ca7, HRP-conjugated anti-human Fab (AbD/Serotec) diluted 1/10,000
in TBS/Ca'      was added and the plates incubated for a further one hour at room
temperature.     Bound antibody was detected using a TMB peroxidase substrate kit
(Biorad).
                                           -145-

         Results:
         Results of the dot blot analysis demonstrating the reactivity of the Fab2s with
various MASP-2 polypeptides are provided below in TABLE 14. The numerical values
provided in TABLE 14 indicate the amount of spotted protein required to give
approximately half-maximal signal strength. As shown, all of the polypeptides (with the
exception of the thioredoxin fusion partner alone) were recognized by the positive control
Ab (polyclonal anti-human MASP-2 sera, raised in rabbits).
     TABLE 14: REACTIVITY WITH VARIOUS RECOMBINANT RAT MASP-2
                             POLYPEPTIDES ON DOT BLOTS
     Fab2          MASP-2A      CUBI-II CUBI/EGF-like          CCPII-SP      Thioredoxin
 Antibody #
      40             0.16 ng       NR              NR            0.8 ng           NR
      41             0.16 ng       NR              NR            0.8 ng           NR
      11             0.16 ng       NR              NR            0.8 ng           NR
      49             0.16 ng       NR              NR           >20 ng            NR
      52             0.16 ng       NR              NR            0.8 ng           NR
      57            0.032 ng       NR              NR              NR             NR
      58              0.4 ng       NR              NR            2.0 ng           NR
      60              0.4 ng      0.4 ng           NR              NR             NR
      63              0.4 ng       NR              NR            2.0 ng           NR
      66              0.4 ng       NR              NR            2.0 ng           NR
      67              0.4 ng       NR              NR            2.0 ng           NR
      71              0.4 ng       NR              NR            2.0 ng           NR
      81              0.4 ng       NR              NR            2.0 ng           NR
      86              0.4 ng       NR              NR             10 ng           NR
      87              0.4 ng       NR              NR            2.0 ng           NR
   Positive        <0.032 ng     0.16 ng         0.16 ng       <0.032 ng          NR
   Control
NR = No reaction. The positive control antibody is polyclonal anti-human MASP-2 sera,
raised in rabbits.
         All of the Fab2s reacted with MASP-2A as well as MASP-2K (data not shown).
The majority of the Fab2s recognized the CCPII-SP polypeptide but not the N-terminal
                                           -146-

fragments.    The two exceptions are Fab2 #60 and Fab2 #57.           Fab2 #60 recognizes
MASP-2A and the CUBI-Il fragment, but not the CUBI/EGF-like polypeptide or the
CCPII-SP polypeptide, suggesting it binds to an epitope in CUBIT, or spanning the CUBII
and the EGF-like domain. Fab2 # 57 recognizes MASP-2A but not any of the MASP-2
fragments tested, perhaps indicating that this Fab2 recognizes an epitope in CCPl. Fab2
#40 and #49 bound only to complete MASP-2A. In the ELISA binding assay, Fab2 #60
also bound to the CUBI-II polypeptide, albeit with a slightly lower apparent affinity (data
not shown).
        These finding demonstrate the identification of unique blocking Fab2s to multiple
regions of the MASP-2 protein.
                                     EXAMPLE 13
        This Example describes the pharmacodynamic analysis of representative high
affinity MASP-2 Fab2 antibodies that were identified as described in Example 11.
        Background/Rationale:
        As described in Example 11, in order to identify high-affinity antibodies that
block the rat lectin pathway, rat MASP-2 protein was utilized to pan a phage display
library. This library was designed to provide for high immunological diversity and was
constructed using entirely human immunoglobin gene sequences.                As shown in
Example 11, approximately 250 individual phage clones were identified that bound with
high affinity to the rat MASP-2 protein by ELISA screening. Sequencing of these clones
identified 50 unique MASP-2 antibody-encoding phage. Fab2 protein was expressed
from these clones, purified and analyzed for MASP-2 binding affinity and lectin
complement pathway functional inhibition.
        As shown in TABLE 13 of Example 11, 17 MASP-2 Fab2s with functional
blocking activity were identified as a result of this analysis (a 34% hit rate for blocking
antibodies).   Functional inhibition of the lectin complement pathway by Fab2s was
apparent at the level of C4 deposition, which is a direct measure of C4 cleavage by
MASP-2. Importantly, inhibition was equally evident when C3 convertase activity was
assessed, demonstrating functional blockade of the lectin complement pathway. The 17
MASP-2 blocking Fab2s identified as described in Example 11 potently inhibit C3
convertase formation with IC5 0 values equal to or less than 10 nM. Eight of the 17 Fab2s
identified have IC5 0 values in the sub-nanomolar range.        Furthermore, all 17 of the
MASP-2 blocking Fab2s gave essentially complete inhibition of the C3 convertase
                                           -147-

formation in the lectin pathway C3 convertase assay, as summarized in TABLE 13 of
Example 11. Moreover, each of the 17 blocking MASP-2 Fab2s shown in TABLE 13
potently inhibit C3b generation (>95%), thus demonstrating the specificity of this assay
for lectin pathway C3 convertase.
         Rat IgG2c and mouse IgG2a full-length antibody isotype variants were derived
from Fab2 #11.     This Example describes the in vivo characterization of these isotypes for
pharmacodynamic parameters.
         Methods:
         As described in Example 11, rat MASP-2 protein was utilized to pan a Fab phage
display library, from which Fab2 #11 was identified. Rat IgG2c and mouse IgG2a full
length antibody isotype variants were derived from Fab2 #11.     Both rat IgG2c and mouse
IgG2a full-length antibody isotypes were characterized in vivo for pharmacodynamic
parameters as follows.
         In vivo study in mice:
         A pharmacodynamic study was carried out in mice to investigate the effect of
MASP-2 antibody dosing on the plasma lectin pathway activity in vivo. In this study, C4
deposition was measured ex vivo in a lectin pathway assay at various time points
following subcutaneous (sc) and intraperitoneal (ip) administration of 0.3 mg/kg or 1.0
mg/kg of the mouse MASP-2 MoAb (mouse IgG2a full-length antibody isotype derived
from Fab2#1 1).
         FIGURE 29A graphically illustrates lectin pathway specific C4b deposition on a
zymosan-coated microtiter plate, measured ex vivo in undiluted serum samples taken
from mice (n=3 mice/group) at various time points after subcutaneous dosing of either
0.3 mg/kg or 1.0 mg/kg of the mouse MASP-2 MoAb.               Serum samples from mice
collected prior to antibody dosing served as negative controls (100% activity), while
serum supplemented in vitro with 100 nM of the same blocking MASP-2 antibody was
used as a positive control (0% activity).
         The results shown in FIGURE 29A demonstrate a rapid and complete inhibition
of C4b deposition following subcutaneous administration of 1.0 mg/kg dose of mouse
MASP-2 MoAb. A partial inhibition of C4b deposition was seen following subcutaneous
administration of a dose of 0.3 mg/kg of mouse MASP-2 MoAb.
         The time course of lectin pathway recovery was followed for three weeks
following a single ip administration of mouse MASP-2 MoAb at 0.6 mg/kg in mice. As
                                           -148-

shown in FIGURE 29B, a precipitous drop in lectin pathway activity occurred after
antibody dosing followed by complete lectin pathway inhibition that lasted for about 7
days after i.p. administration. Slow restoration of lectin pathway activity was observed
over the second and third weeks, with complete lectin pathway restoration in the mice by
17 days following MASP-2 MoAb administration.
        These results demonstrate that the mouse MASP-2 Moab derived from Fab2 #11
inhibits the lectin pathway of mice in a dose-responsive manner when delivered
systemically.
                                       EXAMPLE 14
        This example describes the identification, using phage display, of fully human
scFv antibodies that bind to MASP-2 and inhibit lectin-mediated complement activation
(LEA-2) while leaving the classical (Clq-dependent) pathway component of the immune
system intact.
        Overview:
        Fully human, high-affinity MASP-2 antibodies were identified by screening a
phage display library. The variable light and heavy chain fragments of the antibodies
were isolated in both a scFv format and in a full-length IgG format. The human MASP-2
antibodies are useful for inhibiting cellular injury associated with lectin pathway
mediated alternative complement pathway activation while leaving the classical
(Clq-dependent) pathway component of the immune system intact.                  In some
embodiments,     the   subject   MASP-2     inhibitory  antibodies  have   the following
characteristics: (a) high affinity for human MASP-2 (e.g., a KD of 10 nM or less), and
(b) inhibit MASP-2-dependent complement activity in 90% human serum with an IC5 0 of
30 nM or less.
        Methods:
        Expression offull-length catalytically inactive MASP-2:
        The full-length cDNA sequence of human MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO: 4), encoding
the human MASP-2 polypeptide with leader sequence (SEQ ID NO:5) was subeloned
into the mammalian expression vector pCI-Neo (Promega), which drives eukaryotic
expression under the control of the CMV enhancer/promoter region (described in
Kaufman R.J. et al., Nucleic Acids Research 19:4485-90, 1991; Kaufman, Methods in
Enzynology, 185:537-66 (1991)).
                                           -149-

In order to generate catalytically inactive human MASP-2A protein, site-directed
mutagenesis was carried out as described in US2007/0172483, hereby incorporated
herein by reference. The PCR products were purified after agarose gel electrophoresis
and band preparation and single adenosine overlaps were generated using a standard
tailing procedure. The adenosine-tailed MASP-2A was then cloned into the pGEM-T
easy vector and transformed into E. coli. The human MASP-2A was further subcloned
into either of the mammalian expression vectors pED or pCI-Neo.
        The MASP-2A expression construct described above was transfected into DXB1
cells using the standard calcium phosphate transfection procedure (Maniatis et al., 1989).
MASP-2A was produced in serum-free medium to ensure that preparations were not
contaminated with other serum proteins. Media was harvested from confluent cells every
second day (four times in total).      The level of recombinant MASP-2A averaged
approximately 1.5 mg/liter of culture medium. The MASP-2A (Ser-Ala mutant described
above) was purified by affinity chromatography on MBP-A-agarose columns
        MASP-2A      ELISA on ScFv Candidate Clones identified by panning/scFv
conversion and filter screening
        A phage display library of human immunoglobulin light- and heavy-chain
variable region sequences was subjected to antigen panning followed by automated
antibody screening and selection to identify high-affinity scFv antibodies to human
MASP-2 protein. Three rounds of panning the scFv phage library against HIS-tagged or
biotin-tagged MASP-2A were carried out. The third round of panning was eluted first
with MBL and then with TEA (alkaline). To monitor the specific enrichment of phages
displaying scFv fragments against the target MASP-2A, a polyclonal phage ELISA
against immobilized MASP-2A was carried out. The scFv genes from panning round 3
were cloned into a pHOG expression vector and run in a small-scale filter screening to
look for specific clones against MASP-2A.
        Bacterial colonies containing plasmids encoding scFv fragments from the third
round of panning were picked, gridded onto nitrocellulose membranes and grown
overnight on non-inducing medium to produce master plates. A total of 18,000 colonies
were picked and analyzed from the third panning round, half from the competitive elution
and half from the subsequent TEA elution. Panning of the scFv phagemid library against
MASP-2A followed by scFv conversion and a filter screen yielded 137 positive clones.
108/137 clones were positive in an ELISA assay for MASP-2 binding (data not shown),
                                          -150-

of which 45 clones were further analyzed for the ability to block MASP-2 activity in
normal human serum.
        Assay to Measure Inhibition of Formation of Lectin Pathway C3 Convertase
        A functional assay that measures inhibition of lectin pathway C3 convertase
formation was used to evaluate the "blocking activity" of the MASP-2 scFv candidate
clones. MASP-2 serine protease activity is required in order to generate the two protein
components (C4b, C2a) that comprise the lectin pathway C3 convertase. Therefore, a
MASP-2 scFv that inhibits MASP-2 functional activity (i.e., a blocking MASP-2 scFv),
will inhibit de novo formation of lectin pathway C3 convertase. C3 contains an unusual
and highly reactive thioester group as part of its structure. Upon cleavage of C3 by C3
convertase in this assay, the thioester group on C3b can form a covalent bond with
hydroxyl or amino groups on macromolecules immobilized on the bottom of the plastic
wells via ester or amide linkages, thus facilitating detection of C3b in the ELISA assay.
        Yeast mannan is a known activator of the lectin pathway.            In the following
method to measure formation of C3 convertase, plastic wells coated with mannan were
incubated with diluted human serum to activate the lectin pathway. The wells were then
washed and assayed for C3b immobilized onto the wells using standard ELISA methods.
The amount of C3b generated in this assay is a direct reflection of the de novo formation
of lectin pathway C3 convertase. MASP-2 scFv clones at selected concentrations were
tested in this assay for their ability to inhibit C3 convertase formation and consequent
C3b generation.
        Methods:
        The 45 candidate clones identified as described above were expressed, purified
and diluted to the same stock concentration, which was again diluted in Ca++ and Mg++
containing GVB buffer (4.0 mM barbital, 141 mM NaCl, 1.0 mM MgCl 2 , 2.0 mM CaCl 2 ,
0.1% gelatin, pH 7.4) to assure that all clones had the same amount of buffer. The scFv
clones were each tested in triplicate at the concentration of 2 pLg/mL. The positive control
was OMS100 Fab2 and was tested at 0.4 pig/mL. C3c formation was monitored in the
presence and absence of the scFv/IgG clones.
        Mannan was diluted to a concentration of 20 pig/mL (1 pig/well) in 50mM
carbonate buffer (15mM Na2 CO 3 + 35mM NaHCO 3 + 1.5 mM NaN 3 ), pH 9.5 and coated
on an ELISA plate overnight at 4'C.         The next day, the mannan-coated plates were
                                             -151-

washed 3 times with 200 l PBS. 100 pl of 1% HSA blocking solution was then added to
the wells and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed 3 times
with 200 pl PBS, and stored on ice with 200 pL PBS until addition of the samples.
        Normal human serum was diluted to 0.5% in CaMgGVB buffer, and scFv clones
or the OMS 100 Fab2 positive control were added in triplicates at 0.01 ptg/mL; 1 pig/mL
(only OMS100 control) and 10 pg/mL to this buffer and preincubated 45 minutes on ice
before addition to the blocked ELISA plate. The reaction was initiated by incubation for
one hour at 37'C and was stopped by transferring the plates to an ice bath.          C3b
deposition was detected with a Rabbit a-Mouse C3c antibody followed by Goat u-Rabbit
HRP. The negative control was buffer without antibody (no antibody = maximum C3b
deposition), and the positive control was buffer with EDTA (no C3b deposition).       The
background was determined by carrying out the same assay except that the wells were
mannan-free. The background signal against plates without mannan was subtracted from
the signals in the mannan-containing wells. A cut-off criterion was set at half of the
activity of an irrelevant scFv clone (VZV) and buffer alone.
        Results: Based on the cut-off criterion, a total of 13 clones were found to block
the activity of MASP-2.      All 13 clones producing > 50% pathway suppression were
selected and sequenced, yielding 10 unique clones. All ten clones were found to have the
same light chain subclass, k3, but three different heavy chain subclasses: VH2, VH3 and
VH6. In the functional assay, five out of the ten candidate scFv clones gave IC50 nM
values less than the 25 nM target criteria using 0.5% human serum.
        To identify antibodies with improved potency, the three mother scFv clones,
identified as described above, were subjected to light-chain shuffling.      This process
involved the generation of a combinatorial library consisting of the VH of each of the
mother clones paired up with a library of naive, human lambda light chains (VL) derived
from six healthy donors. This library was then screened for scFv clones with improved
binding affinity and/or functionality.
                                            -152-

        TABLE 15: Comparison of functional potency in IC 5 0 (nM) of the lead daughter
clones and their respective mother clones (all in scFv format)
                         1% human serum         90% human serum     90% human serum
                             C3 assay                C3 assay            C4 assay
     scFv clone             (IC 5 0 nM)             (IC 5 0 nM)         (IC 50 nM)
17D20mc                          38                      nd                  nd
17D20m d3521N11                  26                   >1000                 140
17Nl6mc                          68                      nd                  nd
17N16m d17N9                     48                      15                 230
        Presented below are the heavy-chain variable region (VH) sequences for the
mother clones and daughter clones shown above in TABLE 15, and listed below in
TABLES 16A-F.
        The Kabat CDRs (31-35 (HI), 50-65 (H2) and 95-102 (H3)) are bolded; and the
Chothia CDRs (26-32 (HI), 52-56 (H2) and 95-101 (H3)) are underlined.
        17D20_35VH-21N11VL          heavy chain variable region (VH) (SEQ ID NO:15,
encoded by SEQ ID NO:14)
        QVTLKESGPVLVKPTETLTLTCTVSGFSLSRGKMGVSWIRQPPGKALEW
LAHIFSSDEKSYRTSLKSRLTISKDTSKNQVVLTMTNMDPVDTATYYCARIRRG
GIDYWGQGTLVTVSS
        d17N9 heavy chain variable region (VH) (SEQ ID NO:16)
QVQLQQSGPGLVKPSQTLSLTCAISGDSVSSTSAAWNWIRQSPSRGLEWLGRTY
YRSKWYNDYAVSVKSRITINPDTSKNQFSLQLNSVTPEDTAVYYCARDPFGVPF
DIWGQGTMVTVSS
                                           -153-

    Heavy Chain Variable Region
    TABLE 16A: Heavy chain (aa 1-20)
Heavy
chain
aa        1  2   3  4    5   6   7   8   9    10   11   12   13   14   15  16  17   18  19  20
d3521NII  Q  V   T  L    K   E   S   G   P    V    L    V    K    P    T   E   T    L   T   L
(SEQ: 15)       II
dl7N9     Q V    Q L Q Q         S   G   P    G    L    V    K    P    S   Q   T    L   S   L
(SEQ: 16)
    TABLE 16B: Heavy chain (aa 21-40)
Heavy                                                   CDR-HI
chain
aa        21  22 23  24    25 26 27 28      29 30     31   32 33    34   35 36 37    38 39  40
d3521Nl1  T   C  T   V     S   G   F   S    L    S    R    G    K   M    G   V   S   W I    R
(SEQ: 15)
d17N9     T   C  A   I     S   G   _D S     V    S    S    T    S    A   A   W  N    W   I  R
(SEQ: 16)
    TABLE 16C: Heavy chainl (aa 41-60)
Heavy                                                                 CDR-H2
chain
aa        41 42 43   44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51               52 53     54 55 56    57 58 59 60
d3521NI1  Q   P  P   G     K   A   L   E    W    L    A    H    I   F    S   S  D    E   K  S
(SEQ: 15)
dl7N9     Q   S  P   S     R   G   L   E    W L       G R     T    Y       R     S   K   W Y
(SEQ: 16)
    TABLE 16D: Heavy chain(aa 61-80)
Heavy       CDR-H2 (cont'd)
chain
aa        61 62 63   64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71               72 73     74 75 76    77 78 79 80
d3521Nl1  Y   R  T   S     L   K   S   R    L    T    I    S    K   D    T   S  K    N   Q   V
(SEQ: 15)
dl7N9     N   D  Y   A     V   S   V   K    S    R    I    T    I   N    P   D  T    S   KN
(SEQ: 16)
                                           -154-

      TABLE 16E: Heavy chain (aa 81-100)
Heavy                                                                               CDR-H3
chain
aa            81    82   83   84   85  86   87 88   89  90 91    92 93  94  95 96 97 98     99  100
d3521NlI      V     L    T    M    T   N    M   D   P   V   D    T  A   T   Y   Y   C   A   R   I
(SEQ: 15)         111
dl7N9         Q     F    S    L    Q   L   N    S   V   T   P    E  D   T   A   V   Y   Y   C   A
(SEQ: 16)                                         111
      TABLE 16F: heavy chain (aa 101-118)
Heavy                                               CDR-H3 (cont'd)
chain
aa          101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111         112 113 114 115 116 117 118 119 120
d3521NI     _1R R      G    G    I    D   Y    W  G    Q   G    T   L   V   T   V   S   S
(SEQ: 15)
dl7N9       R     D    P    F    G    V   P    F  D    I   W    G   Q   G   T   M   V   T   V    S
(SEQ: 16)       1     111
          Presented below are the light-chain variable region (VL) sequences for the mother
clones and daughter clones listed below in TABLES 17A-F.
          The Kabat CDRs (24-34 (LI); 50-56 (L2); and 89-97 (L3) are bolded; and the
Chothia CDRs (24-34 (LI); 50-56 (L2) and 89-97 (L3) are underlined. These regions are
the same whether numbered by the Kabat or Chothia system.
          17D20m d3521N11 light chain variable region (VL) (SEQ ID NO:17)
          QPVLTQPPSLSVSPGQTASITCSGEKLGDKYAYWYQQKPGQSPVLVMYQ
DKORPSGIPERFSGSNSGNTATLTISGTQAMDEADYYCQAWDSSTAVFGGGTKL
TVL
          17N16m d17N9 light chain variable region (VL) (SEQ ID NO:19, encoded by
SEQ ID NO:18)
          SYELIQPPSVSVAPGQTATITCAGDNLGKKRVHWYQQRPGQAPVLVIYD
DSDRPSGIPDRFSASNSGNTATLTITRGEAGDEADYYCQVWDIATDHVVFGGGT
KLTVLAAAGSEQKLISE
                                                   -155-

TABLE 17A: Light chain (aa 1-20)
Light
chain
aa        1   2   3  4   5   6   7   8   9   10    11   12   13    14   15  16   17  18  19 20
d3521N1I  Q P     V  L   T   Q P P       S   L     S    V    S     P    G   Q   T    A   S  I
(SEQ: 17)
dl7N9     S   Y   E  L   I   Q   P   P   S   V     S    V    A     P    G   Q   T   A    T  I
(SEQ: 19)
TABLE 17B: Light chain (aa 21-40)
Light                                              CDR-L1
chain
aa        21  22 23  24    25 26 27 28      29 30     31   32   33   34 35    36 37   38 39 40
d3521Nlt  T   C    S G     E   K   L   G    D    K    Y    A    Y    W Y      Q   Q   K  P  G
(SEQ: 17)
                                                                            1                  1
dl7N9     T   C   A   _    D   N   LI G     K    K    R    V    H    W    Y   Q Q R      P  G
(SEQ: 19) T     _
TABLE 17C: Light chain (aa 41-60)
Light                                                                  CDR-L2
chain
aa        41 42 43   44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51               52 53      54 55 56    57 58 59 60
d3521NI1  Q   S   P  V     L   V   M   Y    Q D       K    Q    R    P    S   G   I   P  E  R
(SEQ: 17)
dl7N9     Q   A   P  V     L   V   I   Y    D    D S       D    R    P    S   G   I   P  D  R
(SEQ: 19)
TABLE 17D: Light chain (aa 61-80)
Light       CDR-L2 (cont'd)
chain
aa        61 62 63   64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71               72 73      74 75 76    77 78 79 80
d3521NI1  F   S   G  S     N   S   G   N    T    A    T    L    T    I    S   G   T   Q A   M
(SEQ: 17)
dl7N9     F   S   A  S    N    S   G   N    T    A    T    L    T    I    T   R   G   EA
(SEQ: 19)
                                           -156-

TABLE 17E: Li ght chain (aa 81-100)
Light                                                                CDR-L3
chain
aa            81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100
d3521N11 D        X   A    D    Y    Y    C   Q    A   W   D    S  S  T A   V  F  G  G  G
(SEQ: 17)
d17N9         D   E   A    D    Y    Y    C   Q    V W     D    I  A  T  D  H  V VF     G
(SEQ: 19)
TABLE 17F: Light chain (aa 101-120)
Light                                             CDR-L3 (cont'd)
chain
aa         10  10  10   10   10   10   10   10  10   11  11   11  11 11 11  11 11 11 11 12
           1   2   3    4    5    6    7    8   9    0   1    2   3  4  5   6  7  8  9  0
d3521N1    T   K   L    T    V    L    A    A   A    G   S    E   Q  K  L   I  S  E  E  D
(SEQ: 17)
d17N9      G   G   T    K    L    T    V    L   A    A   A    G   S  E  Q   K  L  I  S  F
(SEQ: 19)
          The MASP-2 antibodies OMS100 and MoAbd3521N11VL, which have both
been demonstrated to bind to human MASP-2 with high affinity and have the ability to
block functional complement activity, were analyzed with regard to epitope binding by
dot blot analysis. The results show that d3521N11 and OMS100 antibodies are highly
specific for MASP-2 and do not bind to MASP-1/3. Neither antibody bound to MAp19
nor to MASP-2 fragments that did not contain the CCP1 domain of MASP-2, leading to
the conclusion that the binding sites encompass CCP1.
          Accordingly, in one embodiment, a MASP-2 inhibitory agent for use in the
compositions and methods of the claimed invention comprises a human antibody that
binds a polypeptide consisting of human MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:3), wherein the antibody
comprises:
I) a) a heavy chain variable region comprising: i) a heavy chain CDR1 comprising the
amino acid sequence from 31-35 of SEQ ID NO:21; and ii) a heavy chain CDR2
comprising the amino acid sequence from 50-65 of SEQ ID NO:21; and iii) a heavy chain
CDR3 comprising the amino acid sequence from 95-102 of SEQ ID NO:21; and
                                                  -157-

         b) a light chain variable region comprising: i) a light chain CDRI comprising the
amino acid sequence from 24-34 of either SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:27; and ii) a
light chain CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence from 50-56 of either SEQ ID
NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:27; and iii) a light chain CDR3 comprising the amino acid
sequence from 89-97 of either SEQ ID NO:25 or SEQ ID NO:27; or II) a variant thereof
that is otherwise identical to said variable domains, except for up to a combined total of 6
amino acid substitutions within said CDR regions of said heavy-chain variable region and
up to a combined total of 6 amino acid substitutions within said CDR regions of said
light-chain variable region, wherein the antibody or variant thereof inhibits MASP-2
dependent complement activation.
                                        EXAMPLE 15
         This Example describes the generation of MASP-1 and MASP-3 monoclonal
antibodies using an in vitro system comprising a modified DT40 cell line, DTLacO.
         Background/Rationale:
         Antibodies against human MASP- 1 and MASP-3 were generated using an in vitro
system comprising a modified DT40 cell line, DTLacO, that permits reversible induction
of diversification of a particular polypeptide, as further described in W02009029315 and
US2010093033. DT40 is a chicken B cell line that is known to constitutively mutate its
heavy and light chain immunoglobulin (Ig) genes in culture. Like other B cells, this
constitutive mutagenesis targets mutations to the V region of Ig genes, and thus, the
CDRs of the expressed antibody molecules.          Constitutive mutagenesis in DT40 cells
takes place by gene conversion using as donor sequences an array of non-functional V
gene segments (pseudo-V genes; yV) situated upstream of each functional V region.
Deletion of the WV region was previously shown to cause a switch in the mechanism of
diversification from gene conversion to somatic hypermutation, the mechanism
commonly observed in human B cells. The DT40 chicken B cell lymphoma line has been
shown to be a promising starting point for antibody evolution ex vivo (Cumbers, S.J. et at.
Nat Biotechnol 20, 1129-1134 (2002); Sco, H. et al. Nat Biotechnol 23, 731-735 (2005)).
DT40 cells proliferate robustly in culture, with an 8-10 hour doubling time (compared to
20-24 hr for human B cell lines), and they support very efficient homologous gene
targeting (Buerstedde, J.M. et al. Einbo .1 9, 921-927 (1990)).        DT40 cells command
enormous potential V region sequence diversity given that they can access two distinct
physiological pathways for diversification, gene conversion and somatic hypermutation,
                                             -158-

which create templated and nontemplated mutations, respectively (Maizels, N. Annu Rev
Genet 39, 23-46 (2005)). Diversified heavy and light chain immunoglobulins (Igs) are
expressed in the form of a cell-surface displayed IgM. Surface IgM has a bivalent form,
structurally similar to an IgG molecule.      Cells that display IgM with specificity for a
particular antigen can be isolated by binding either immobilized soluble or membrane
displayed versions of the antigen.    However, utility of DT40 cells for antibody evolution
has been limited in practice because -           as in other transformed B cell lines
diversification occurs at less than 1% the physiological rate.
         In the system used in this example, as described in W02009029315 and
US2010093033, the DT40 cells were engineered to accelerate the rate of Ig gene
diversification without sacrificing the capacity for further genetic modification or the
potential for both gene conversion and somatic hypermutation to contribute to
mutagenesis.     Two key modifications to DT40 were made to increase the rate of
diversification and, consequently, the complexity of binding specificities in our library of
cells. First, Ig gene diversification was put under the control of the potent E. coli lactose
operator/repressor regulatory network. Multimers consisting of approximately 100
polymerized repeats of the potent E. coli lactose operator (PolyLacO) were inserted
upstream of the rearranged and expressed IgX and IgH genes by homologous gene
targeting.    Regulatory factors fused to lactose repressor protein (Lac)      can then be
tethered to the LacO regulatory elements to regulate diversification, taking advantage of
the high affinity (ko=10-4 M) of lactose repressor for operator DNA. DT40 PolyLacO
XR  cells, in which PolyLacO was integrated only at IgX, exhibited a 5-fold increase in Ig
gene diversification rate relative to the parental DT40 cells prior to any engineering
(Cummings, W.J. et al. PLoS Biol 5, e246 (2007)). Diversification was further elevated
in cells engineered to carry PolyLacO targeted to both the IgX and the IgH genes
("DTLacO"). DTLacO cells were demonstrated to have diversification rates 2.5- to 9.2
fold elevated relative to the 2.8% characteristic of the parental DT40 PolyLacO-R Lac
HP1 line. Thus, targeting PolyLacO elements to both the heavy and light chain genes
accelerated diversification 21.7-fold relative to the DT40 parental cell line. Tethering
regulatory factors to the Ig loci not only alters the frequency of mutagenesis, but also can
change the pathway of mutagenesis creating a larger collection of unique sequence
changes (Cummings et al. 2007; Cummings et al. 2008). Second, a diverse collection of
sequence starting points for the tethered factor-accelerated Ig gene diversification was
                                            -159-

generated. These diverse sequence starting points were added to DTLacO by targeting
rearranged Ig heavy-chain variable regions, isolated from a two month old chick, to the
heavy chain locus.       The addition of these heavy chain variable regions created a
repertoire of 107 new starting points for antibody diversification.   Building these new
starting points into the DTLacO cell line permits the identification of clones that bind a
particular target, and then rapid affinity maturation by the tethered factors. Following
affinity maturation, a full-length, recombinant chimeric IgG is made by cloning the
matured, rearranged heavy- and light-chain variable sequences (VH and VX; consisting of
chicken framework regions and the complementarity determining regions or CDRs) into
expression vectors containing human IgGi and lambda constant regions.               These
recombinant mAbs are suitable for in vitro and in vivo applications, and they serve as the
starting point for humanization.
        Methods:
        Selection for MASP-1 and MASP-3 antigen binding.
        Initial selections were performed by binding DTLacO populations diversified by
gene targeting to beads complexed with human MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10) and MASP-3
antigen (SEQ ID NO:8); and subsequent selections by FACS, using fluorescence-labeled
soluble antigen (Cumbers, S.J. et al. Nat Biotechnol 20, 1129-1134 (2002); Seo, H. et al.
Nat Biotechnol 23, 731-735 (2005). Because of the conserved amino acid sequence in the
alpha chain that is shared between MASP-1 and MASP-3 (shown in FIGURE 5), and the
distinct beta chain sequences (shown in FIGURE 6), separate, parallel screens for
binders to MASP-1 and MASP-3 were carried out to identify MASP-1 specific mAbs,
MASP-3 specific mAbs and also mAbs capable of binding to both MASP-1 and MASP-3
(dual-specific). Two forms of antigen were used to select and screen for binders. First,
recombinant MASP-1 or MASP-3, either full-length or a fragment, fused to an Fc domain
were bound to Dynal magnetic Protein G beads or used in FACS-based selections using
a PECy5-labeled anti-human IgG(Fc) secondary antibody. Alternatively, recombinant
versions of MASP-1 or MASP-3 proteins were directly labeled with Dylight flours and
used for selections and screening.
        Binding and affinity.
        Recombinant antibodies were generated by cloning PCR-amplified V regions into
a vector that supported expression of human IgG1 in 293F cells (Yabuki et al., PLoS
ONE, 7(4):e36032 (2012)).       Saturation binding kinetics were determined by staining
                                           -160-

DTLacO      cells expressing  antibody binding MASP-1        or MASP-3     with various
concentrations of fluorescent-labeled soluble antigen.    Functional assays for MASP-3
specific activityincluding MA SP-3 -dependent C3b deposition and MASP-3 -dependent
factor D cleavage were carried out as described in Examples 17 and 18, respectively. A
functional assay for MASP-1-specific activity, namely the inhibition of MASP-1
dependent C3b deposition was carried out as described below.
        Results:
        Numerous MASP-1 and MASP-3 binding antibodies were generated using the
methods described above. Binding, as demonstrated by FACS analysis, is described for
the representative clones M3J5 and M3Ml, which were isolated in screens for MASP-3
binders.
        FIGURE 30A is a FACS histogram of MASP-3 antigen/antibody binding for
DTLacO clone M3J5. FIGURE 30B is a FACS histogram of MASP-3 antigen/antibody
binding for DTLacO clone M3Ml. In FIGURES 30A and 30B the gray filled curves are
IgG1-stained negative control, and thick black curves are MASP-3-staining.
        FIGURE 31 graphically illustrates a saturation binding curve of clone M3J5
(Clone 5) for the MASP-3 antigen.       As shown in FIGURE 31, the apparent binding
affinity of the M3J5 antibody for MASP-3 is about 31 nM.
         Sequence analysis of identified clones was performed using standard methods.
All clones were compared to the common (DT40) VH and VL sequences and to each
other.    Sequences for the two aforementioned clones, M3J5 and M3M 1 are provided in
an alignment with two additional representative clones, D14 and 1E10, which were
identified in screens for CCPl-CCP2-SP fragments of MASP-l                and MASP-3,
respectively. D14 and 1E10 bind regions common to both MASP-1 and MASP-3.
        FIGURE 32A is an amino acid sequence alignment of the VH regions of M3J5,
M3M1, D14 and IE10 to the chicken DT40 VH sequence.
        FIGURE 32B is an amino acid sequence alignment of the VL regions of M3J5,
M3M1, D14 and 1E10 to the chicken DT40 VL sequence.
        The VH and VL amino acid sequence of each clone is provided below.
        Heavy Chain Variable Region (VH) sequences
        FIGURE 32A shows an amino acid alignment of the heavy-Chain Variable
Region (VH) sequences for the parent DTLacO (SEQ ID NO: 24), the MASP-3-binding
                                          -161-

clones M3J5 (SEQ ID NO: 25), and M3Ml (SEQ ID NO: 26), and the MASP-1/MASP-3
dual binding clones D14 (SEQ ID NO:30), and IEl0.
       The Kabat CDRs in the VH sequences below are located at the following amino
acid positions::H1:aa 31-35; H2:aa 50-62; and H3:aa 95-102.
       The Chothia CDRs in the VH sequences below are located at the following amino
acid positions: H1:aa 26-32; H2: aa 52-56; and H3: aa 95-101.
Parent DTLacO VH (SEQ ID NO:24)
AVTLDESGGGLQTPGGALSLVCKASGFTFSSNAMGWVRQAPGKGLEWVAGIDD
DGSGTRYAPAVKGRATISRDNGQSTLRLQLNNLRAEDTGTYYCTKCAYSSGCDY
EGGYIDAWGHGTEVIVSS
Clone M3J5 VH: (SEQ ID NO:25)
AVTLDESGGGLQTPGGGLSLVCKASGFTFSSYAMGWMRQAPGKGLEYVAGIRS
DGSFTLYATAVKGRATISRDNGQSTVRLQLNNLRAEDTATYFCTRSGNVGDIDA
WGHGTEVIVSS
Clone M3M1 VH: (SEQ ID NO:26)
AVTLDESGGGLQTPGGGLSLVCKASGFDFSSYQMNWIRQAPGKGLEFVAAINRF
GNSTGHGAAVKGRVTISRDDGQSTVRLQLSNLRAEDTATYYCAKGVYGYCGSY
SCCGVDTIDAWGHGTEVIVSS
Clone D14 VH: (SEQ ID NO:30)
AVTLDESGGGLQTPGGALSLVCKASGFTFSSYAMHWVRQAPGKGLEWVAGIYK
SGAGTNYAPAVKGRATISRDNGQSTVRLQLNNLRAEDTGTYYCAKTTGSGCSSG
YRAEYIDAWGHGTEVIVSS
Clone 1E10 VH: (SEQ ID NO:32)
AVTLDESGGGLQTPGGALSLVCKASGFTFSSYDMVWVRQAPGKGLEFVAGISRN
DGRYTEYGSAVKGRATISRDNGQSTVRLQLNNLRAEDTATYYCARDAGGSAYW
FDAGQIDAWGHGTEVIVSS
                                          -162-

        Light Chain Variable Region (VL) sequences
        FIGURE 32B shows an amino acid alignment of the light-Chain Variable Region
(VL) sequences for the parent DTLacO (SEQ ID NO:27) and the MASP-3-binding clones
M3J5 (SEQ ID NO:28), and M3MI (SEQ ID NO:29), and the MASP-1/MASP-3 dual
binding clones D14 (SEQ ID NO:31) and IE10 (SEQ ID NO: 33).
Parent DTLacO VL (SEQ ID NO:27):
ALTQPASVSANLGGTVKITCSGGGSYAGSYYYGWYQQKSPGSAPVTVIYDNDKR
PSDIPSRFSGSLSGSTNTLTITGVRADDEAVYFCGSADNSGAAFGAGTTLTVL
Clone M3J5 VL (SEQ ID NO:28):
ALTQPASVSANPGETVKITCSGGYSGYAGSYYYGWYQQKAPGSAPVTLIYYNNK
RPSDIPSRFSGSLSGSTNTLTITGVRADDEAVYFCGSADNSGAAFGAGTTLTVL
Clone M3M1 VL (SEQ ID NO:29):
ALTQPASVSANPGETVKITCSGGGSYAGSYYYGWYQQKAPGSAPVTLIYYNNKR
PSDIPSRFSGSLSGSTNTLTITGVRADDEAVYFCGSADNSGAAFGAGTTLTVL
Clone D14 VL: (SEQ ID NO:31)
ALTQPASVSANPGETVKITCSGGGSYAGSYYYGWYQQKAPGSAPVTLIYYNNKR
PSDIPSRFSGSLSGSTNTLTITGVRADDEAVYFCGSADNSGAAFGAGTTLTVL
Clone 1E1O VL: (SEQ ID NO:33)
ALTQPASVSANPGETVKITCSGGGSYAGSYYYGWYQQKAPGSAPVTLIYYNNKR
PSDIPSRFSGSLSGSTNTLTITGVRADDEAVYFCGSADNSGAAFGAGTTLTVL
        LEA-2 (MASP-2-dependent) FunctionalAssay
        MASP-1 contributes to LEA-2 via its ability to activate MASP-2 (see FIGURE
1). The Wieslab Complement System Screen MBL assay (Euro Diagnostica, Malm6,
Sweden) measures C5b-C9 deposition under conditions that isolate LEA-2-dependent
activation (i.e., traditional lectin pathway activity). The assay was carried out according
to the manufacturer's instructions with representative clone lEIO tested as a final
concentration of 400 nM.
                                             -163-

        FIGURE 33 is a bar graph showing the inhibitory activity of the mAb 1ElO in
comparison to the positive serum provided with the assay kit, as well as an isotype
control antibody. As shown in FIGURE 33, mAb 1El0 demonstrates partial inhibition
of LEA-2-dependent activation (via inhibition of MASP-1 -dependent activation of
MASP-2), whereas the isotype control antibody does not. Stronger inhibition should be
achieved by continued affinity maturation of this antibody for MASP-1 binding using the
tethered factors in the DTLacO system.
        LEA-1    (MASP-3-dependent) Function Assays for representative mAbs are
described below in Examples 17 and 18.
        Summary of Results:
        The above results showed that the DTLacO platform permitted rapid ex vivo
discovery of MASP-1 and MASP-3 monoclonal antibodies with inhibitory properties on
LEA-1 (as shown below in Examples 17 and 18) and on LEA-2 (as shown in this
Example).
                                       EXAMPLE 16
        This Example describes the generation of polypeptide inhibitors of MASP-1 and
MASP-2.
        Rationale:
        The generation of specific inhibitors of MASP-1 and MASP-2, termed SGMI-1
and SGMI-2, respectively, is described in Heja et al., JBiol Chem 287:20290 (2012) and
Heja et al., PNAS 109:10498 (2012), each of which is hereby incorporated herein by
reference. SGMI-1 and SGMI-2 are each 36 amino acid peptides which were selected
from a phage library of variants of the Schistocerca gregaria protease inhibitor 2 in
which six of the eight positions of the protease binding loop were fully randomized.
Subsequent in vitro evolution yielded mono-specific inhibitors with single digit nM K
values (Heja et al., J. Biol. Chem. 287:20290, 2012). Structural studies revealed that the
optimized protease binding loop forms the primary binding site that defines the
specificity of the two inhibitors. The amino acid sequences of the extended secondary
and internal binding regions are common to the two inhibitors and contribute to the
contact interface (Heja et al., 2012. J. Biol. Chem. 287:20290). Mechanistically, both
SGMI-1 and SGMI-2 block the lectin pathway of complement activation without
affecting the classical or alternative pathways (Heja et al., 2012. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
109:10498).
                                           -164-

The amino acid sequences of the SGMI-i and SGMI-2 inhibitors are set forth below:
SGMI-l -full-length: LEVTCEPGTTFKDKCNTCRCGSDGKSAFCTRKLCYQ (SEQ ID NO:34)
SGMI-2-full-length:    LEVTCEPGTTFKDKCNTCRCGSDGKSAVCTKLWCNQ                  (SEQ   ID
NO:35)
         SGMI-1 and SGMI-2 are highly specific inhibitors of MASP-1 and MASP-2,
respectively.   However, as peptides they have limited potential for use in biological
studies. To address these limitations, we engrafted these bioactive peptide amino acid
sequences onto the amino terminus of human IgGI Fc region to create an Fc-fusion
protein,
        Methods:
        To express the SGMI-IgG1 Fc fusion proteins, polynucleotides encoding the
SGMI-I (SEQ ID NO:34) and SGMI-2 (SEQ ID NO:35) peptides were synthesized
(DNA 2.0) and inserted into the expression vector pFUSE-hIgGl-Fc2 (InvivoGen)
between nucleotide sequences encoding the IL-2 signal sequence and the human IgG 1 Fe
region (SEQ ID NO:36). A flexible polypeptide linker (e.g., SEQ ID NO:37 or SEQ ID
NO:38) was included between the SGMI peptide and the IgGI Fe region.
        Flexible Polypeptide Linker Sequences:
        GTGGGSGSSSRS (SEQ ID NO:37)
        GTGGGSGSSS (SEQ ID NO:38)
        The resulting constructs are described as follows:
        A polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide fusion comprising the human IL-2
signal sequence, SGMI-I, linker and human IgGI-Fc (pFUSE-SGMI-1Fe), is set forth as
SEQ ID NO:39, which encodes the mature polypeptide fusion comprising SGMI-I
(underlined), linker region (italicized) and human IgG1-Fe (together referred to as
"SGMI-lFe"), which is set forth as SEQ ID NO:40.
                                           -165-

        SEO ID NO:40
        LEVTCEPGTTFKDKCNTCRCGSDGKSAFCTRKLCYOGTGGGSGSSSRSDK
THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNW
YVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALP
APIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESN
GQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYT
QKSLSLSPGK
        A polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide fusion comprising the human IL-2
signal sequence, SGMI-2, linker and human IgGi-Fc (pFUSE-SGMI-2Fc), is set forth as
SEQ ID NO:41, which encodes the mature polypeptide fusion comprising SGMI-2
(underlined), linker region (italicized) and human IgG1-Fe (together referred to as
"SGMI-2Fe"), which is set forth as SEQ ID NO:42:
        SEQ ID NO:42
        LEVTCEPGTTFKDKCNTCRCGSDGKSAVCTKLWCNQGTGGGSGSSSRSDK
THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNW
YVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALP
APIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESN
GQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYT
QKSLSLSPGK
        Production of Recombinant proteins:
        Freestyle 293-F or Expi293F cells (Invitrogen) were transiently transfected
according to the supplier's protocol with one of the two expression plasmids (pFUSE
SGMI-lFc (SEQ ID NO:39) and pFUSE-SGMI-2Fc (SEQ ID NO:41). After four days of
incubation at 37C, the culture media were harvested.       The Fc-fusion proteins were
purified by Protein A affinity chromatography.
        Assays measuring activation of the lectin pathway.
        The SGMI-1Fc and SGMI-2Fc fusion proteins were tested for the ability to inhibit
deposition of C3b from 1% serum on a mannan-coated 96-well plate, which is a measure
of lectin pathway activity.     SGMI-lFc and SGMI-2Fc were pre-incubated with 1%
normal human serum for one hour on ice before addition to wells coated with mannan (2
                                          -166-

pg/well).   C3b deposition was measured by ELISA as described in Schwaeble et al.
PNAS 108:7523, 2011.
        FIGURE 34 graphically illustrates the level of C3b deposition for 1% normal
human serum plus isotype control, SGMI-IFc or SGMI-2Fc over a concentration range of
0.15 to 1000 nM. As shown in FIGURE 34, both SGMI-lFc and SGMI-2Fc inhibited
C3b deposition from normal serum in mannan-coated ELISA wells, with ICso values of
approximately 27nM and 300nM, respectively.
        These results demonstrate that the MASP-1 and MASP-2 inhibitory functions of
the SGMI peptides are retained in the SGMI-IFc and SGMI-2Fc fusion proteins.
                                       EXAMPLE 17
        Analysis of the complement pathway in 3MC serum with S. aureus
        Background/Rationale:
        It was determined that MASP-3 is not activated through exposure to non
immobilized fluid-phase mannan, zymosan A or N-acetyl cysteine either in the presence
or absence of normal human serum. However it was determined that recombinant and
native MASP-3 are activated on the surface of heat-inactivated S. aureus in the presence
and absence of normal human serum (NHS) or heat-inactivated human serum (HIS) (data
not shown).    It was also determined that C3b deposition occurs on the surface of S.
aureus in the presence of normal human serum, and that the deposition can be monitored
using a flow cytometer. Therefore, the alternative pathway (AP) response to S. aureus
was measured as described in this Example as a means of assessing the contribution of
MASP-3 to LEA-1.
        Methods:
        Recombinant     MASP-3:      polynucleotide     sequences  encoding    full length
recombinant human MASP-3, a truncated serine protease (SP) active version of MASP-3
(CCP1-CCP2-SP), and a SP-inactivated form of MASP-3 (S679A) were cloned into the
pTriEx7 mammalian expression vector (Invivogen). The resulting expression constructs
encode the full length MASP-3 or the CCP1-CCP2-SP fragment with an amino-terminal
Streptag and a carboxy-terminal His6 tag. The expression constructs were transfected
into Freestyle 293-F or Expi293F cells (Invitrogen) according to the protocols provided
by the manufacturer. After three to four days of culture in 500 CO 2 at 370 C, recombinant
proteins were purified utilizing Streptactin affinity chromatography.
                                            -167-

        Recombinant MASP-1: the full length or truncated CCP1-CCP2-SP forms of
recombinant MASP-1 with or without the stabilizing R504Q (Dobo et al., J. Imnunol
183:1207, 2009) or SP inactivating (S646A) mutations and bearing an amino-terminal
Steptag and a carboxy-terminal His6 tag were generated as described for recombinant
MASP-3 above.
    1. C3b deposition and factor B cleavage on S. aureus in 3MC (human) serum
    An initial experiment was carried out to demonstrate that the flow cytometry assay is
able to detect the presence or absence of AP-driven C3b deposition (AP-C3b) as follows.
Five percent of the following sera: normal human serum, factor B (Factor B)- depleted
human serum, factor D-depleted human serum and properdin-depleted human serum
(obtained from Complement Technology, Tyler, Texas, USA) were mixed with test
antibody in either Mg7*/EGTA buffer or EDTA at 4'C overnight. Heat-killed S. aureus
(108/reaction) was added to each mixture to a total volume of 100 pL and rotated at 370 C
for 40 minutes. Bacteria were washed in washing buffer, the bacterial pellet was re
suspended in washing buffer and a 80 paL aliquot of each sample was analyzed for C3b
deposition on the bacterial surface, which was detected with anti-human C3c (Dako, UK)
using flow cytometry.
        The results of the flow cytometry detection of C3b are shown in FIGURE 35A.
As shown in FIGURE 35A, panel 1, normal human serum in the presence of EDTA,
which is known to inactivate the AP, no C3b deposition was observed (negative control).
In normal human serum treated with Mg++/EGTA, only lectin-independent complement
pathways can function. In panel 2, Mg--/EGTA buffer is used, therefore the AP is active,
and AP-driven C3b deposition is observed (positive control). As shown in panel 3, 4 and
5, in factor B-depleted, factor D-depleted and properdin-depleted serum, respectively, no
alternative pathway driven C3b deposition is observed, as expected.        These results
demonstrate that the assay is capable of detecting AP-dependent C3b deposition.
        A C3b deposition on S. aureus assay was carried out as described above to assess
the ability of recombinant MASP-3 to reconstitute the AP (LEA-1) in human 3MC serum,
which is deficient in MASP-3 (Rooryck C, ct al., Nat Genet. 43(3):197-203 (2011)). The
following combinations of reagents were tested.
        1.  5% normal human serum +EDTA
        2. 5% normal human serum +Mg/EGTA
        3. 5% human 3MC (MASP-3-) serum+ Mg '/EGTA
                                           -168-

        4. 5% human 3MC (MASP-3--) serum + Mg /EGTA plus active full-length
           rMASP-3
        5. 5% human 3MC (MASP-3-)           serum + Mg7+/EGTA plus truncated active
           rMASP-3 (CCP 1/CCP2/SP)
        6. 5% human 3MC (MASP-3-)          serum + MgU+/EGTA plus inactive rMASP-3
           (S679A)
        7. 5% human 3MC (MASP-3--) serum + Mg7*/EGTA plus active full length
           rMASP-1
    The various mixtures of 5% serum and recombinant proteins (5 tg of each) as shown
above were incubated in the specified buffer conditions (either Mg++ /EGTA buffer or
EDTA) at 4'C overnight. After the incubation overnight, 108 heat-killed S. aureus were
added to each mixture in a total volume of 100 pl and rotated at 370 C for 40 minutes.
Bacteria were washed and re-suspended in washing buffer and an 80 pl aliquot of each
sample was analyzed for C3b deposition by FACS. The remaining 20 tL aliquot of each
sample was used to measure factor B cleavage by Western blot using anti-factor B
antibody as described below.
    The results of the flow cytometery detection of C3b are shown in FIGURE 35B.
Panel numbers correspond to the numbers designated for each of the reagent combination
outlined above. The negative control (panel 1) and positive control (panel 2) show the
absence and presence of C3b deposition, as expected. Panel 3 shows that AP-driven C3b
deposition is absent in 3MC serum. Panels 4 and 5 show that active full length rMASP-3
(panel 4) and active rMASP-3 (CCP1-CCP2-SP) (panel 5) both restore AP-driven C3b
deposition in 3MC serum. Panel 6 shows that inactive rMASP-3 (S679A) does not
restore AP-driven C3b deposition in 3MC serum. Panel 7 shows that rMASP-1 does not
restore AP-driven C3b deposition in 3MC serum.
    Taken together, these results demonstrate that MASP-3 is required for AP-driven C3b
deposition on S. aureus in human serum.
    2. MASP-3-dependent Activation ofFactor B
        In order to analyze MASP-3-dependent activation of Factor B, the various
mixtures of    5%  serum (either normal human serum or 3MC patient serum) and
recombinant proteins as shown above were assayed as described above.         From each
reaction mixture, 20 [tL were removed and added to protein sample loading buffer. The
samples were heated at 70 0C for 10 minutes and loaded onto an SDS-PAGE gel. Western
                                          -169-

blot analysis was performed using a Factor B polyclonal antibody (R&D Systems).
Activation of Factor B was apparent by the formation of two lower molecular weight
cleavage products (Bb and Ba) derived from the higher molecular weight pro-Factor B
protein.
    FIGURE 36 shows the results of a Western blot analysis to determine factor B
cleavage in response to S. aureus in 3MC serum in the presence or absence of rMASP-3.
As shown in lane 1, the normal human serum in the presence of EDTA (negative control)
demonstrates very little Factor B cleavage relative to normal human serum in the
presence of Mg7*/EGTA, shown in lane 2 (positive control). As shown in lane 3, 3MC
serum demonstrates very little Factor B cleavage in the presence of Mg+*/EGTA.
However, as shown in lane 4, Factor B cleavage is restored by the addition and pre
incubation of full-length, recombinant MASP-3 protein (5 tg) to the 3MC serum.
    3. Assay to determine the effect of rMASP-3 on pro-factor D in factor B/C3(H20)
         Cleavage
         The following assay was carried out to determine the minimal requirement for
MASP-3 -dependent activation/cleavage of factor B.
         C3(H 20) (200ng), purified plasm factor B (20 pg), recombinant pro-factor D (200
ng) and recombinant human MASP-3 (200 ng) were mixed together in various
combinations (as shown in FIGURE 37), in a total volume of 100 uL in BBS/Ca+_/ Mg +
and incubated at 30'C for 30 minutes. The reaction was stopped by adding 25 uL of SDS
loading dye containing 5% 2-mercaptoethanol.        After boiling at 95'C for 10 minutes
under shaking (300 rpm), the mixture was spun down at 1400 rpm for 5 minutes and 20
uL of the supernatant was loaded and separated on a 10% SDS gel. The gel was stained
with Coomassie brilliant blue.
         Results:
         FIGURE 37 shows a Comassie-stained SDS-PAGE gel in which factor B
cleavage is analyzed. As shown in lane 1, factor B cleavage is most optimal in the
presence of C3, MASP-3 and pro-factor D.          As shown in lane 2, C3 is absolutely
required; however, as shown in lanes 4 and 5, either MASP-3 or pro-factor D are able to
mediate factor B cleavage, as long as C3 is present.
                                           -170-

    4. Analysis of the ability of MASP-3 mAbs to inhibit MASP-3-dependent AP
        driven C3b deposition
    As described in this Example it was demonstrated that MASP-3 is required for AP
driven C3b deposition on S. aureus in human serum. Therefore, the following assay was
carried out to determine if a representative MASP-3 mAb identified as described in
Example 15, could inhibit activity of MASP-3.      Active, recombinant MASP-3 (CCP1
CCP2-SP) fragment protein (250 ng) was pre-incubated with an isotype control mAb,
mAb1A5 (control obtained from the DTLacO platform that does not bind MASP-3 or
MASP-1), or mAbD14 (binds MASP-3) at three different concentrations (0.5, 2 and 4
ptM) for 1 hour on ice.      The enzyme-mAb mixture was exposed to 5% 3MC serum
(MASP-3 deficient) and 5x10 7 heat-killed S. aureus in a final reaction volume of 50 tL.
The reactions were incubated at 370 C for 30 minutes, and then stained for the detection of
C3b deposition. The stained bacterial cells were analyzed by a flow cytometer.
        FIGURE 38 graphically illustrates the mean fluorescent intensities (MFI) of C3b
staining obtained from the three antibodies plotted as a function of mAb concentration in
3MC serum with the presence of rMASP-3.            As shown in FIGURE 38, mAbD14
demonstrates inhibition of C3b deposition in a concentration-dependent manner.           In
contrast, neither of the control mAbs inhibited C3b deposition. These results demonstrate
that mAbD14 is able to inhibit MASP-3-dependent C3b deposition. Improved inhibitory
activity for mAbD 14 is expected following continued affinity maturation of this antibody
for MASP-3 binding using the tethered factors in the DTLacO system.
        Summary of Results:
        In summary, the results in this Example demonstrate a clear defect of the AP in
serum deficient for MASP-3.      Thus, MASP-3 has been demonstrated to make a critical
contribution to the AP, using factor B activation and C3b deposition as functional end
points.    Furthermore, addition of functional, recombinant MASP-3, including the
catalytically-active C-terminal portion of MASP-3 corrects the defect in factor B
activation and C3b deposition in the serum from the 3MC patient. Conversely, as further
demonstrated in this Example, addition of a MASP-3 antibody (e.g.,mAbD14) in 3MC
serum with rMASP-3 inhibits AP-driven C3b deposition. A direct role of MASP-3 in
Factor B activation, and therefore the AP, is demonstrated by the observation that
recombinant MASP-3, along with C3, is sufficient to activate recombinant factor B.
                                           -171-

                                      EXAMPLE 18
        This Example demonstrates that MASP-1 and MASP-3 activate factor D.
        Methods:
        Recombinant MASP-1 and MASP-3 were tested for their ability to cleave two
different recombinant versions of pro-factor D. The first version (pro-factor D-His) lacks
an N-terminal tag, but has a C-terminal His tag.      Thus, this version of pro-factor D
contains the 5 amino acid pro-peptide that is removed by cleavage during activation. The
second version (ST-pro-factor D-His) has a Strep-TagII sequence on the N-terminus, thus
increasing the cleaved N-terminal fragment to 15 amino acids.       ST-pro-factor D also
contains a His6 tag at the C-terminus. The increased length of the propeptide of ST-pro
factor D-His improves the resolution between the cleaved and uncleaved forms by SDS
PAGE compared to the resolution possible with the pro-factor D-HIS form.
        Recombinant MASP-1 or MASP-3 proteins (2 pg) was added to either pro-factor
D-His or ST-pro-factor D-His substrates (100 ng) and incubated for 1 hour at 37'C. The
reactions were electrophoresed on a 12% Bis-Tris gel to resolve pro-factor D and the
active factor D cleavage product. The resolved proteins were transferred to a PVDF
membrane and analyzed by Western blot by detection with a biotinylated factor D
antibody (R&D Systems).
        Results:
        FIGURE 39 shows the Western blot analysis of pro-factor D substrate cleavage.
As shown in FIGURE 39, only full length MASP-3 (lane 2) and the MASP-1 CCP1
CCP2-SP) fragment (lane 5) cleaved ST-pro-factor D-His6 . The catalytically-inactive full
length MASP-3 (S679A; lane 3) and MASP-1 (S646A; lane 3) failed to cleave either
substrate. Identical results were obtained with the pro-factor D-His 6 polypeptide (not
shown). The comparison of a molar excess of MASP-1 (CCPI-CCP2-SP) relative to
MASP-3 suggests that MASP-3 is a more effective catalyst of pro-factor D cleavage than
is MASP-1, as least under the condtions described herein.
        Conclusions: Both MASP-1 and MASP-3 are capable of cleaving and activating
factor D. This activity directly connects LEA-i with the activation of the AP. More
specifically, activation of factor D by MASP-1 or MASP-3 will lead to factor B
activation, C3b deposition, and likely opsonization and/or lysis.
                                           -172-

    1. Assay    fr   Inhibition of MASP-3-dependent       Cleavage of pro-filctor D with
        MASP-3 antibodies
         An assay was carried out to determine the inhibitory effect of representative
MASP-3 and MASP-1 mAbs, identified as described in Example 15, on MASP-3
dependent
factor D cleavage as follows. Active, recombinant MASP-3 protein (80 ng) was pre
incubated with 1 [.g of representative mAbs D14, M3M1 and a control antibody (which
binds specifically to MASP-1, but not to MASP-3) at room temperature for 15 minutes.
Pro-factor D with an N-terminal Strep-tag (ST-pro-factor D-His, 70 ng) was added and
the mixture was incubated at 370 C for 75 minutes.               The reactions were then
electrophoresed, blotted and stained with anti-factor D as described above.
        FIGURE 40 is a Western blot showing the partial inhibitory activity of the mAbs
D14 and M3M1 in comparison to a control reaction containing only MASP-3 and ST
pro-factor D-His (no mAb; lane 1), as well as a control reaction containing a mAb
obtained from the DTLacO library that binds MASP-1, but not MASP-3 (lane 4). As
shown in FIGURE 40, in the absence of an inhibitory antibody, MASP-3 cleaves
approximately 50% of pro-factor D into factor D (lane 1). The control MASP-1 specific
antibody (lane 4) does not change the ratio of pro-factor D to factor D. In contrast, as
shown in lanes 2 and 3, both mAb D14 and mAb M3M1 inhibit MASP-3-dependent
cleavage of pro-factor D to factor D, resulting in a reduction in factor D generated.
        Conclusions: These results demonstrate that MASP-3 mAbs D14 and M3M1 are
able to inhibit MASP-3-dependent factor D cleavage. Improved inhibitory activity for
mAbD14 and mAb M3M1 is expected following continued affinity maturation of these
antibodies for MASP-3 binding using the tethered factors in the DTLacO system.
EXAMPLE 19
        This Example demonstrates that MASP-3 deficiency prevents complement
mediated lysis of mannan-coated WT rabbit erythrocytes.
        Background/Rationale:
        As described in Examples 5 and 6 herein, the effect of MASP-2- and MASP-3
deficient serum on lysis of red blood cells from blood samples obtained from a mouse
model of PNH demonstrated the efficacy of MASP-2 inhibition and/or MASP-3
inhibition to treat subjects suffering from PNH, and also supported the use of inhibitors of
MASP-2 and/or inhibitors of MASP-3 (including dual or bi-specific MASP-2/MASP-3
                                            -173-

inhibitors) to ameliorate the effects of C3 fragment-mediated extravascular hemolysis in
PNH subjects undergoing therapy with a C5 inhibitor such as eculizumab.
         As described in this Example, C3b deposition experiments and hemolysis
experiments were carried out in MASP-3 deficient serum from additional 3MC patients,
confirming the results obtained in Examples 5 and 6. In addition, experiments were
carried out which demonstrated that addition of rMASP-3 to 3MC serum was able to
reconstitute C3b deposition and hemolytic activity.
        Methods:
        MASP-3-deficient serum was obtained from three different 3MC patients as
follows:
3MC Patient 1: contains an allele bearing a mutation that renders the exon encoding the
MASP-3 serine protease domain dysfunctional,        supplied along with the mother and
father of the 3MC patient (both heterozygous for the allele bearing a mutation that
renders the exon encoding the MASP-3 serine protease domain dysfunctional),
3MC Patient 2: Has C1489T (H497Y) mutation in exon 12 of MASP-1, the exon that
encodes the serine protease domain of MASP-3, resulting in nonfunctional MASP-3, but
functional MASP- 1 proteins.
3MC Patient 3: Has a confirmed defect in the MASP-1 gene, resulting in nonfunctional
MASP-3 but functional MASP-1 proteins.
        Experiment #1: C3b Deposition Assay
        An AP assay was carried out under traditional AP-specific conditions (BBS/
Mg++/EGTA, without Ca++, wherein BBS= barbital buffered saline containing sucrose),
as described in Bitter-Suermann et al., Eur. J. Immunol 11:291-295 (1981)), on zymosan
coated microtiter plates at serum concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 25% and C3b
deposition was measured over time.
        Results:
        FIGURE 41 graphically illustrates the level of AP-driven C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates as a function of serum concentration in serum samples
obtained from MASP-3-deficient (3MC), C4-deficient and MBL-deficient subjects. As
shown in FIGURE 41, and summarized below in TABLE 18, MASP-3-deficient patient
sera from Patient 2 and Patient 3 have residual AP activity at high concentrations (25%,
12.5%, 6.25% serum concentrations), but a significantly higher AP 50 (i.e., 8.2% and
12.3% of serum needed to achieve 50% of maximum C3 deposition).
                                           -174-

         FIGURE 42 graphically illustrates the level of AP-driven C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates under "traditional"        AP-specific conditions (i.e.,
BBS/EGTA/Mg+* without Ca++) as a function of time in 10% human serum samples
obtained from MASP-3 deficient, C4-deficient and MBL-deficient human subjects.
         TABLE 18 below summarizes the AP 50 results shown in FIGURE 41 and the
half-times for C3b deposition shown in FIGURE 42.
TABLE 18: Summary of Results shown in FIGURES 41 and 42
Serum type                       AP5 0 o           TI/2 (min)
Normal                           4.5               26.3
MBL-deficient (MBL-/-)           5.7               27.5
C4-deficient (C4-/-)             5.1               28.6
3MC (Patient 3)                  8.2               58.2
3MC (Patient 2)                   12.3             72.4
Note: In BBS/MgU*/EGTA buffer, the lectin pathway-mediated effects are deficient due
to absence of Ca+- in this buffer.
         Experiment #2: Hemolysis assay testing mannan-coated rabbit erythrocytes for
lysis in the presence of human normal or 3MC serum (in the absence of Ca*)
         Methods:
         Preparation of rabbit RBC in the absence of Ca++ (i.e., by using EGTA)
         Rabbit whole blood (2 mL) was split into two 1.5 mL eppendorf tubes and
centrifuged for 3 minutes at 8000 rpm (approximately 5.9 ref) in a refrigerated eppendorf
centrifuge at 4C. The RBC pellet was washed three times after re-suspending in ice-cold
BBS/ Mg+ /Ca-' (4.4 mM barbituric acid, 1.8 mM sodium barbitone, 145 mM NaCl, pH
7.4, 5 mM Mg +, 5 mM Ca+). After the third wash, the pellet was re-suspended in 4 mL
BBS/ Mg+*/Ca+*.       The erythrocytes were pelleted and the RBCs were washed with
BBS/0.1% gelatin/MgU*/Ca'       as described above. The RBCs suspension was stored in
BBS/0.1% gelatin/ Mg+_/Ca + at 4'C. Then, 100 pL of suspended RBCs were diluted
with 1.4 mL water and spun down at 8000 rpm (approximately 5.9 ref) for 3 minutes and
the OD of the supernatant was adjusted to 0.7 at 541nm (an OD of 0.7 at 541nm
corresponds to approximately 109 erythrocytes/ml). After that, 1 mL of the resuspended
                                           -175-

RBCs at OD 0.7 were added to 9 ml of BBS/Mg'/EGTA in order to achieve a
concentration of 108 erythrocytes/ml. Dilutions of the test sera or plasma were prepared
in ice-cold BBS, Mg", EGTA and 100 ptL of each serum or plasma dilution was pipetted
into the corresponding well of round-bottom plate. 100 tL of appropriately diluted RBC
(108 erythrocytes/ml) were added to each well.     Nano-water was used to produce the
positive control (100% lysis), while a dilution with BBS/Mg/EGTA without serum or
plasma was used as a negative control. The plate was then incubated for 1 hour at 370 C.
The round bottom plate was spun down at 3750 rpm for 5 minutes. Then, 100 tL of the
supernatant from each well was transferred into the corresponding wells of a flat-bottom
plate and OD was read at 415-490 nm.
        Results:
        FIGURE 43 graphically illustrates the percent hemolysis (as measured by
hemoglobin release of lysed rabbit erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by
photometry) of mannan-coated rabbit erythrocytes over a range of serum concentrations
in serum from normal subjects and from two 3MC patients (Patient 2 and Patient 3),
measured in the absence of Ca+.       As shown in FIGURE 43, it is demonstrated that
MASP-3 deficiency reduces the percentage of complement-mediated lysis of mannan
coated erythrocytes as compared to normal human serum. The differences between the
two curves from the normal human serum and the two curves from the 3MC patients is
significant (p=0.013, Friedman test).
        TABLE 19 below summarizes the AP5 0 results shown in FIGURE 43.
TABLE 19: Summary of Results shown in FIGURE 43
Serum type                      AP5 0 (%)
Normal human serum #1           7.1
Normal human serum #2           8.6
3MC Patient #2                  11.9
3MC Patient #3                  14.3
        It is noted that when the serum samples shown in TABLE 19 were pooled, the
AP5 0 value for normal human serum = 7.9 and the AP50 value for 3MC serum = 12.8
(p=0.031, Wilcox matched-pairs signed rank test).
                                          -176-

        Experiment #3: Reconstitution of human 3MC serum by recombinant MASP-3
restores AP-driven C3b deposition on zymosan coated plates
        Methods:
        An AP assay was          carried out under traditional   AP-specific  conditions
(BBS/Mg-_/EGTA,       without Ca:+, wherein BBS=barbital buffered saline containing
sucrose), as described in Bitter-Suermann et al., Eur. J. Immunol 11:291-295 (1981)), on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates in the following serum samples (1) 5% human serum
from 3MC Patient #2 with full length active rMASP-3 added in at a range of 0 to 20
 tg/ml; (2) 10% human serum from 3MC Patient #2 with full length active rMASP-3
added in at a range of 0 to 20 ptg/ml; and (3) 5% human serum from 3MC Patient #2 with
inactive rMASP-3A (S679A) added in at a range of 0 to 20 tg/ml.
        Results:
        FIGURE 44 graphically illustrates the level of AP-driven C3b deposition on
zymosan-coated microtiter plates as a function of the concentration of rMASP-3 protein
added to serum samples obtained from human 3MC Patient #2 (MASP-3-deficient). As
shown in FIGURE 44, active recombinant MASP-3 protein reconstitutes AP-driven C3b
deposition on zymosan-coated plates in a concentration-dependent manner. As further
shown in FIGURE 44, no C3b deposition was observed in the 3MC serum containing
inactive rMASP-3 (S679A).
        Experiment #4: Reconstitution of human 3MC serum by recombinant MASP-3
restores hemolytic activity in 3MC patient serum
        Methods:
        A hemolytic assay was carried out using rabbit RBC using the methods described
above in Experiment #2 with the following test sera at a range of 0 to 12% serum: (1)
normal human serum; (2) 3MC patient serum; (3) 3MC patient serum plus active full
length rMASP-3 (20 ptg/ml); and (4) heat-inactivated human serum.
        Results:
        FIGURE 45 graphically illustrates the percent hemolysis (as measured by
hemoglobin release of lysed rabbit erythrocytes into the supernatant measured by
photometry) of mannan-coated rabbit erythrocytes over a range of serum concentrations
in (1) normal human serum; (2) 3MC patient serum; (3) 3MC patient serum plus active
full length rMASP-3 (20 pg/ml); and (4) heat-inactivated human serum, measured in the
absence of Ca".      As shown in FIGURE 45, the percent lysis of rabbit RBC is
                                            -177-

significantly increased in 3MC serum including rMASP-3 as compared to the percent
lysis in 3MC serum without rMASP-3 (p=0.0006).
         FIGURE 46 graphically illustrates the percentage of rabbit erythrocyte lysis in
7% human serum from 3MC Patient 2 and from 3MC Patient 3 containing active rMASP
3 at a concentration range of 0 to 110 Ig/ml in BBS/Mg+*/EGTA.        As shown in FIGURE
46, the percentage of rabbit RBC lysis is restored with the amount of rMASP-3 in a
concentration-dependent manner up to 100% activity.
         Experiment #5: Serum of MASP-3 deficient (CMC) patient has functional
MASP-2 if MBL is present
         Methods:
         A C3b deposition assay was carried out using Mannan-coated ELISA plates under
to examine whether 3MC serum is deficient in LEA-2.           Citrate plasma was diluted in
BBS buffer in serial dilutions (starting at 1:80, 1:160, 1: 320, 1:640, 1:1280, 1:2560) and
plated on Mannan-coated plates.       Deposited C3b was detected using a chicken anti
human C3b assay. LEA-2 driven C3b deposition (the plasma dilutions are to high for the
AP and LEA-I to work) on Mannan-coated ELISA plates was evaluated as a function of
human serum concentration in serum from a normal human subject (NHS), from two
3MC patients (Patient 2 and Patient 3), from the parents of Patient 3 and from a MBL
deficient subject.
         Results:
         FIGURE 47 graphically illustrates the level of LEA-2-driven (i.e., MASP-2
driven) C3b deposition on Mannan-coated ELISA plates as a function of the
concentration of human serum diluted in BBS buffer, for serum from a normal human
subject (NHS), from two 3MC patients (Patient 2 and Patient 3), from the parents of
Patient 3 and from a MBL-deficient subject. These data indicate that Patient 2 is MBL
sufficient.  However, Patient 3 and the mother of Patient 3 are MBL deficient, and
therefore their serum does not deposit C3b on Mannan via LEA-2. Replacement of MBL
in these sera restores LEA-2 mediated C3b deposition in the serum of Patient 3 (who is
homozygous for the SNP leading to MASP-3 deficiency) and his mother (who is
heterozygous for the mutant MASP-3 allele) (data not shown). This finding demonstrates
that 3MC serum is not deficient in LEA-2, but rather appears to have functional MASP-2
and functional MASP-1.
                                            -178-

Overall summary and Conclusions:
These results demonstrate that MASP-3 deficiency in human serum results in loss of AP
activity, as manifested in reduced C3b deposition on zymosan-coated wells and reduced
rabbit erythrocyte lysis. The AP can be restored in both assays by supplementing the sera
with functional, recombinant human MASP-3.
        While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and
described, it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without
departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
                                            -179-

                                          CLAIMS
        1.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one complement
pathway inhibitory agent, wherein the at least one inhibitory agent comprises a MASP-2
inhibitory agent and at least one of a MASP-3 inhibitory agent and/or a MASP-1
inhibitory agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        2.      The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1 wherein the at least one
inhibitory agent comprises a combination of a first molecule that is a MASP-3 inhibitory
agent and a second molecule that is a MASP-2 inhibitory agent.
        3.      The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1 wherein the at least one
inhibitory agent comprises a single molecular entity that includes activity as a MASP-3
inhibitory agent and activity as a MASP-2 inhibitory agent.
        4.      The pharmaceutical     composition of Claim 1 wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 monoclonal antibody, or fragment thereof.
        5.      The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-2
inhibitory agent is a MASP-2 antibody, or fragment thereof.
        6.      The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent inhibits MASP-3-mediated cleavage of factor B.
        7.      The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent inhibits factor D maturation.
        8. The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-1 inhibitory
agent is a MASP- 1 antibody, or fragment thereof.
        9.      The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-1
inhibitory agent specifically binds to a portion of MASP-1 with an affinity of at least 10
times greater than it binds to MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8).
        10.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-1
inhibitory agent specifically binds to the serine protease domain of MASP-1 (aa 449-694
of SEQ ID NO:10).
                                            -180-

        11.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-1
inhibitory agent also binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8).
        12.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 11, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a dual MASP-1/MASP-3 inhibitor that binds to a consensus region
within the CUBI-CCP2 domains
        13.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 11, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a dual MASP-1/MASP-3 inhibitor that binds to a consensus region
within the CCP2 domain.
        14.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 11, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a bispecific monoclonal antibody that binds to the serine protease
domain of MASP-1 (aa 449-694 of SEQ ID NO:10) and also binds to the serine protease
domain of MASP-3 (aa 450-711 of SEQ ID NO:8).
        15.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-1
inhibitory agent also binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5).
        16.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 15, wherein the MASP-1
inhibitory agent is a dual MASP-1/MASP-2 inhibitor that binds to a conserved region
within the serine protease domains of MASP-1 and MASP-2.
        17.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 15, wherein the MASP-1
inhibitory agent is a bispecific monoclonal antibody that binds to the serine protease
domain of MASP-1 (aa449-694 of SEQ ID NO:10) and also binds to at least one of the
serine protease domain of MASP-2 (aa 445-682 of SEQ ID NO:5) or the CCP-1-CCP2
domain of MASP-2 (aa300-431 of SEQ ID NO:5).
        18.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent specifically binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8: full-length).
        19.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent specifically binds to a portion of MASP-3 with an affinity of at least 10
times greater than it binds to MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO:10).
                                            -181-

        20.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 18, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent specifically binds to the serine protease domain of MASP-3 (aa 450-711
of SEQ ID NO:8).
        21.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent also binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5).
        22.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 21, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a dual MASP-2/MASP-3 inhibitor that binds to a conserved region
within the serine protease domains of MASP-2 and MASP-3.
        23.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 21, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a bispecific monoclonal antibody that binds to the serine protease
domain of MASP-3 (aa450-711 of SEQ ID NO:8) and also binds to at least one of the
serine protease domain of MASP-2 (aa 445-682 of SEQ ID NO:5) or the CCP-1-CCP2
domain of MASP-2 (aa300-431 of SEQ ID NO:5).
        24.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a pan inhibitor of MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 and binds to a
conserved region in the CUB 1-EGF-CUB2 domains of the three proteins.
        25.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a trispecific inhibitor of MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3.
        26.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 antibody, and wherein the composition further comprises a
MASP-2 antibody.
        27.     The pharmaceutical       composition of Claim 1 wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 antibody, and wherein the composition further comprises a
MASP-1 antibody.
        28.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-3
inhibitory agent is a MASP-3 antibody, and wherein the composition further comprises a
MASP-2 antibody.
                                              -182-

        29.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the composition
comprises a MASP-1 antibody, and MASP-2 antibody and a MASP-3 antibody.
        30.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 11, wherein the composition
further comprises a MASP-2 antibody.
        31.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 15, wherein the composition
further comprises a MASP-3 antibody.
        32.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 21, wherein the composition
further comprises a MASP-1 antibody.
        33.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the antibody or
fragment thereof is selected from the group consisting of a recombinant antibody, an
antibody having reduced effector function, a chimeric, and a humanized or human
antibody.
        34.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-1
inhibitory agent inhibits factor D maturation.
        35.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 1, wherein the composition is
formulated for systemic delivery.
        36.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 35, wherein the composition is
formulated for delivery subcutaneously, intra-muscularly, intravenously, intra-arterially
or as an inhalant.
        37.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising a MASP-3 inhibitory agent that
binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO: 10: full-length) and that also binds to a
portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8) and a pharmaceutical carrier.
        38.     The composition of Claim 37, wherein the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a
dual MASP-1/MASP-3 inhibitor.
        39.     The composition of Claim 37, wherein the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a
bispecific antibody.
                                            -183-

        40.    The composition of Claim 39, wherein the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a
bispecific monoclonal antibody that binds to the serine protease domain of MASP-1 (aa
449-694 of SEQ ID NO: 10) and also binds to the serine protease domain of MASP-3 (aa
450-711 of SEQ ID NO:8).
        41.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising a MASP-3 inhibitory agent that
binds to a portion of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO: 5: full-length) and that also binds to a
portion of MASP-3 (SEQ ID NO:8) and a pharmaceutical carrier.
        42.    The composition of Claim 41, wherein the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a
dual MASP-2/MASP-3 inhibitor.
        43.    The composition of Claim 41, wherein the MASP-3 inhibitory agent is a
bispecific MASP-2/MASP-3 antibody.
        44.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising a MASP-3 inhibitory agent that
binds to a portion of MASP-1 (SEQ ID NO: 10 full length), that binds to a portion of
MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO: 5: full-length) and that also binds to a portion of MASP-3 (SEQ
ID NO:8) and a pharmaceutical carrier.
        45.    The composition of Claim 44, wherein the inhibitory agent is a pan-MASP
inhibitor.
        46.    The composition of Claim 44, wherein the inhibitory agent is a trispecific
MASP-1, MASP-2 and MASP-3 antibody.
                                         -184-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                               MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>      Omer os Cor por at i on
                         Uni v er s i t y of Lei c es t er
              <120>      Compos i t i ons and Met hods of I nhi bi t i ng MASP- 1 and/ or MASP- 2
                         and/ or MASP- 3 f or t he Tr eat ment of Par ox y s mal Noc t ur nal
                         Hemogl obi nur i a
              <130>      MP. 1. 0146. PCT
              <150>      US 61/ 621, 461
<removed-apn>
              <151>      2012- 04- 06
              <160>      42
              <170>      Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>      1
              <211>      725
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      homo s api ens
              <400> 1
              ggc c aggc c a gc t ggac ggg c ac ac c at ga ggc t gc t gac c c t c c t gggc c t t c t gt gt g                60
              gc t c ggt ggc c ac c c c c t t g ggc c c gaagt ggc c t gaac c t gt gt t c ggg c gc c t ggc at               120
              c c c c c ggc t t t c c aggggag t at gc c aat g ac c aggagc g gc gc t ggac c c t gac t gc ac                 180
              c c c c c ggc t a c c gc c t gc gc c t c t ac t t c a c c c ac t t c ga c c t ggagc t c t c c c ac c t c t   240
              gc gagt ac ga c t t c gt c aag c t gagc t c gg gggc c aaggt gc t ggc c ac g c t gt gc gggc                   300
              aggagagc ac agac ac ggag c gggc c c c t g gc aaggac ac t t t c t ac t c g c t gggc t c c a                   360
              gc c t ggac at t ac c t t c c gc t c c gac t ac t c c aac gagaa gc c gt t c ac g gggt t c gagg               420
              c c t t c t at gc agc c gaggac at t gac gagt gc c aggt ggc c c c gggagag gc gc c c ac c t                    480
              gc gac c ac c a c t gc c ac aac c ac c t gggc g gt t t c t ac t g c t c c t gc c gc gc aggc t ac g           540
              t c c t gc ac c g t aac aagc gc ac c t gc t c ag agc agagc c t c t agc c t c c c c t ggagc t c c             600
              ggc c t gc c c a gc aggt c aga agc c agagc c agc c t gc t gg c c t c agc t c c gggt t gggc t                 660
              gagat ggc t g t gc c c c aac t c c c at t c ac c c ac c at ggac c c aat aat aa ac c t ggc c c c              720
              ac c c c                                                                                                     725
              <210>      2
              <211>      185
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      homo s api ens
              <400>      2
              Met Ar g Leu Leu Thr Leu Leu Gl y Leu Leu Cy s Gl y Ser Val Al a Thr
              1                5                    10                    15
              Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Ly s Tr p Pr o Gl u Pr o Val Phe Gl y Ar g Leu Al a Ser
                            20                       25                     30
              Pr o Gl y Phe Pr o Gl y Gl u Ty r Al a As n As p Gl n Gl u Ar g Ar g Tr p Thr
                        35                      40                       45
                                                           Page 1

                                       MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Thr Al a Pr o Pr o Gl y Ty r Ar g Leu Ar g Leu Ty r Phe Thr Hi s Phe
                  50                      55                     60
              As p Leu Gl u Leu Ser Hi s Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Phe Val Ly s Leu Ser
              65                    70                      75                    80
              Ser Gl y Al a Ly s Val Leu Al a Thr Leu Cy s Gl y Gl n Gl u Ser Thr As p
                                 85                   90                      95
<removed-apn>
              Thr Gl u Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s As p Thr Phe Ty r Ser Leu Gl y Ser Ser
                            100                      105                  110
              Leu As p I l e Thr Phe Ar g Ser As p Ty r Ser As n Gl u Ly s Pr o Phe Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Gl y Phe Gl u Al a Phe Ty r Al a Al a Gl u As p I l e As p Gl u Cy s Gl n Val
                   130                    135                       140
              Al a Pr o Gl y Gl u Al a Pr o Thr Cy s As p Hi s Hi s Cy s Hi s As n Hi s Leu
              145                      150                     155                      160
              Gl y Gl y Phe Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Al a Gl y Ty r Val Leu Hi s Ar g As n
                                 165                     170                    175
              Ly s Ar g Thr Cy s Ser Gl u Gl n Ser Leu
                            180                    185
              <210>   3
              <211>   170
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   homo s api ens
              <400>   3
              Thr Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Ly s Tr p Pr o Gl u Pr o Val Phe Gl y Ar g Leu Al a
              1                 5                        10                     15
              Ser Pr o Gl y Phe Pr o Gl y Gl u Ty r Al a As n As p Gl n Gl u Ar g Ar g Tr p
                            20                      25                       30
              Thr Leu Thr Al a Pr o Pr o Gl y Ty r Ar g Leu Ar g Leu Ty r Phe Thr Hi s
                      35                      40                     45
              Phe As p Leu Gl u Leu Ser Hi s Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Phe Val Ly s Leu
                  50                    55                      60
              Ser Ser Gl y Al a Ly s Val Leu Al a Thr Leu Cy s Gl y Gl n Gl u Ser Thr
              65                     70                   75                      80
              As p Thr Gl u Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s As p Thr Phe Ty r Ser Leu Gl y Ser
                                 85                       90                   95
                                                           Page 2

                                             MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu As p I l e Thr Phe Ar g Ser As p Ty r Ser As n Gl u Ly s Pr o Phe
                           100                    105                     110
              Thr Gl y Phe Gl u Al a Phe Ty r Al a Al a Gl u As p I l e As p Gl u Cy s Gl n
                       115                    120                       125
              Val Al a Pr o Gl y Gl u Al a Pr o Thr Cy s As p Hi s Hi s Cy s Hi s As n Hi s
                  130                      135                     140
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gl y Gl y Phe Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Al a Gl y Ty r Val Leu Hi s Ar g
              145                    150                     155                    160
              As n Ly s Ar g Thr Cy s Ser Gl u Gl n Ser Leu
                                 165                    170
              <210>      4
              <211>      2460
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      homo s api ens
              <400> 4
              ggc c agc t gg ac gggc ac ac c at gaggc t g c t gac c c t c c t gggc c t t c t gt gt ggc t c g              60
              gt ggc c ac c c c c t t gggc c c gaagt ggc c t gaac c t gt gt t c gggc gc c t ggc at c c c c c             120
              ggc t t t c c ag gggagt at gc c aat gac c ag gagc ggc gc t ggac c c t gac t gc ac c c c c c                180
              ggc t ac c gc c t gc gc c t c t a c t t c ac c c ac t t c gac c t gg agc t c t c c c a c c t c t gc gag    240
              t ac gac t t c g t c aagc t gag c t c gggggc c aaggt gc t gg c c ac gc t gt g c gggc aggag                 300
              agc ac agac a c ggagc gggc c c c t ggc aag gac ac t t t c t ac t c gc t ggg c t c c agc c t g              360
              gac at t ac c t t c c gc t c c ga c t ac t c c aac gagaagc c gt t c ac ggggt t c gaggc c t t c             420
              t at gc agc c g aggac at t ga c gagt gc c ag gt ggc c c c gg gagaggc gc c c ac c t gc gac                  480
              c ac c ac t gc c ac aac c ac c t gggc ggt t t c t ac t gc t c c t gc c gc gc agg c t ac gt c c t g         540
              c ac c gt aac a agc gc ac c t g c t c agc c c t g t gc t c c ggc c aggt c t t c ac c c agaggt c t          600
              ggggagc t c a gc agc c c t ga at ac c c ac gg c c gt at c c c a aac t c t c c ag t t gc ac t t ac          660
              agc at c agc c t ggaggaggg gt t c agt gt c at t c t ggac t t t gt ggagt c c t t c gat gt g                 720
              gagac ac ac c c t gaaac c c t gt gt c c c t ac gac t t t c t c a agat t c aaac agac agagaa                 780
              gaac at ggc c c at t c t gt gg gaagac at t g c c c c ac agga t t gaaac aaa aagc aac ac g                   840
              gt gac c at c a c c t t t gt c ac agat gaat c a ggagac c ac a c aggc t ggaa gat c c ac t ac                900
              ac gagc ac ag c gc agc c t t g c c c t t at c c g at ggc gc c ac c t aat ggc c a c gt t t c ac c t         960
              gt gc aagc c a aat ac at c c t gaaagac agc t t c t c c at c t t t t gc gagac t ggc t at gag               1020
              c t t c t gc aag gt c ac t t gc c c c t gaaat c c t t t ac t gc ag t t t gt c agaa agat ggat c t          1080
              t gggac c ggc c aat gc c c gc gt gc agc at t gt t gac t gt g gc c c t c c t ga t gat c t ac c c           1140
              agt ggc c gag t ggagt ac at c ac aggt c c t ggagt gac c a c c t ac aaagc t gt gat t c ag                  1200
              t ac agc t gt g aagagac c t t c t ac ac aat g aaagt gaat g at ggt aaat a t gt gt gt gag                   1260
                                                                Page 3

                                             MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              gc t gat ggat t c t ggac gag c t c c aaagga gaaaaat c ac t c c c agt c t g t gagc c t gt t              1320
              t gt ggac t at c agc c c gc ac aac aggaggg c gt at at at g gagggc aaaa ggc aaaac c t                    1380
              ggt gat t t t c c t t ggc aagt c c t gat at t a ggt ggaac c a c agc agc agg t gc ac t t t t a           1440
              t at gac aac t gggt c c t aac agc t gc t c at gc c gt c t at g agc aaaaac a t gat gc at c c             1500
              gc c c t ggac a t t c gaat ggg c ac c c t gaaa agac t at c ac c t c at t at ac ac aagc c t gg           1560
              t c t gaagc t g t t t t t at ac a t gaaggt t at ac t c at gat g c t ggc t t t ga c aat gac at a         1620
<removed-apn>
              gc ac t gat t a aat t gaat aa c aaagt t gt a at c aat agc a ac at c ac gc c t at t t gt c t g           1680
              c c aagaaaag aagc t gaat c c t t t at gagg ac agat gac a t t ggaac t gc at c t ggat gg                  1740
              ggat t aac c c aaaggggt t t t c t t gc t aga aat c t aat gt at gt c gac at ac c gat t gt t              1800
              gac c at c aaa aat gt ac t gc t gc at at gaa aagc c ac c c t at c c aagggg aagt gt aac t                1860
              gc t aac at gc t t t gt gc t gg c t t agaaagt gggggc aagg ac agc t gc ag aggt gac agc                   1920
              ggaggggc ac t ggt gt t t c t agat agt gaa ac agagaggt ggt t t gt ggg aggaat agt g                       1980
              t c c t ggggt t c c at gaat t g t ggggaagc a ggt c agt at g gagt c t ac ac aaaagt t at t                2040
              aac t at at t c c c t ggat c ga gaac at aat t agt gat t t t t aac t t gc gt g t c t gc agt c a          2100
              aggat t c t t c at t t t t agaa at gc c t gt ga agac c t t ggc agc gac gt gg c t c gagaagc              2160
              at t c at c at t ac t gt ggac a t ggc agt t gt t gc t c c ac c c aaaaaaac ag ac t c c aggt g            2220
              aggc t gc t gt c at t t c t c c a c t t gc c agt t t aat t c c agc c t t ac c c at t gac t c aaggg      2280
              gac at aaac c ac gagagt ga c agt c at c t t t gc c c ac c c a gt gt aat gt c ac t gc t c aaa            2340
              t t ac at t t c a t t ac c t t aaa aagc c agt c t c t t t t c at ac t ggc t gt t gg c at t t c t gt a   2400
              aac t gc c t gt c c at gc t c t t t gt t t t t aaa c t t gt t c t t a t t gaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa           2460
              <210>     5
              <211>     686
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     homo s api ens
              <400>     5
              Met Ar g Leu Leu Thr Leu Leu Gl y Leu Leu Cy s Gl y Ser Val Al a Thr
              1                5                    10                    15
              Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Ly s Tr p Pr o Gl u Pr o Val Phe Gl y Ar g Leu Al a Ser
                            20                       25                     30
              Pr o Gl y Phe Pr o Gl y Gl u Ty r Al a As n As p Gl n Gl u Ar g Ar g Tr p Thr
                        35                      40                       45
              Leu Thr Al a Pr o Pr o Gl y Ty r Ar g Leu Ar g Leu Ty r Phe Thr Hi s Phe
                  50                      55                     60
              As p Leu Gl u Leu Ser Hi s Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Phe Val Ly s Leu Ser
              65                    70                      75                    80
                                                                       Page 4

                                      MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser Gl y Al a Ly s Val Leu Al a Thr Leu Cy s Gl y Gl n Gl u Ser Thr As p
                                 85                   90                      95
              Thr Gl u Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s As p Thr Phe Ty r Ser Leu Gl y Ser Ser
                            100                      105                  110
              Leu As p I l e Thr Phe Ar g Ser As p Ty r Ser As n Gl u Ly s Pr o Phe Thr
                       115                    120                     125
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Phe Gl u Al a Phe Ty r Al a Al a Gl u As p I l e As p Gl u Cy s Gl n Val
                   130                    135                       140
              Al a Pr o Gl y Gl u Al a Pr o Thr Cy s As p Hi s Hi s Cy s Hi s As n Hi s Leu
              145                      150                     155                      160
              Gl y Gl y Phe Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Al a Gl y Ty r Val Leu Hi s Ar g As n
                                 165                     170                    175
              Ly s Ar g Thr Cy s Ser Al a Leu Cy s Ser Gl y Gl n Val Phe Thr Gl n Ar g
                            180                    185                   190
              Ser Gl y Gl u Leu Ser Ser Pr o Gl u Ty r Pr o Ar g Pr o Ty r Pr o Ly s Leu
                       195                   200                      205
              Ser Ser Cy s Thr Ty r Ser I l e Ser Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Phe Ser Val I l e
                  210                   215                     220
              Leu As p Phe Val Gl u Ser Phe As p Val Gl u Thr Hi s Pr o Gl u Thr Leu
              225                   230                   235                    240
              Cy s Pr o Ty r As p Phe Leu Ly s I l e Gl n Thr As p Ar g Gl u Gl u Hi s Gl y
                                  245                     250                     255
              Pr o Phe Cy s Gl y Ly s Thr Leu Pr o Hi s Ar g I l e Gl u Thr Ly s Ser As n
                            260                    265                      270
              Thr Val Thr I l e Thr Phe Val Thr As p Gl u Ser Gl y As p Hi s Thr Gl y
                      275                   280                    285
              Tr p Ly s I l e Hi s Ty r Thr Ser Thr Al a Gl n Pr o Cy s Pr o Ty r Pr o Met
                   290                      295                    300
              Al a Pr o Pr o As n Gl y Hi s Val Ser Pr o Val Gl n Al a Ly s Ty r I l e Leu
              305                      310                   315                       320
              Ly s As p Ser Phe Ser I l e Phe Cy s Gl u Thr Gl y Ty r Gl u Leu Leu Gl n
                                325                     330                    335
              Gl y Hi s Leu Pr o Leu Ly s Ser Phe Thr Al a Val Cy s Gl n Ly s As p Gl y
                            340                   345                    350
                                                           Page 5

                                      MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser Tr p As p Ar g Pr o Met Pr o Al a Cy s Ser I l e Val As p Cy s Gl y Pr o
                       355                     360                     365
              Pr o As p As p Leu Pr o Ser Gl y Ar g Val Gl u Ty r I l e Thr Gl y Pr o Gl y
                   370                    375                     380
              Val Thr Thr Ty r Ly s Al a Val I l e Gl n Ty r Ser Cy s Gl u Gl u Thr Phe
              385                   390                      395                    400
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Thr Met Ly s Val As n As p Gl y Ly s Ty r Val Cy s Gl u Al a As p Gl y
                                405                     410                     415
              Phe Tr p Thr Ser Ser Ly s Gl y Gl u Ly s Ser Leu Pr o Val Cy s Gl u Pr o
                           420                    425                   430
              Val Cy s Gl y Leu Ser Al a Ar g Thr Thr Gl y Gl y Ar g I l e Ty r Gl y Gl y
                       435                    440                    445
              Gl n Ly s Al a Ly s Pr o Gl y As p Phe Pr o Tr p Gl n Val Leu I l e Leu Gl y
                   450                      455                     460
              Gl y Thr Thr Al a Al a Gl y Al a Leu Leu Ty r As p As n Tr p Val Leu Thr
              465                    470                    475                    480
              Al a Al a Hi s Al a Val Ty r Gl u Gl n Ly s Hi s As p Al a Ser Al a Leu As p
                                  485                     490                     495
              I l e Ar g Met Gl y Thr Leu Ly s Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Al a
                             500                    505                    510
              Tr p Ser Gl u Al a Val Phe I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Ty r Thr Hi s As p Al a Gl y
                       515                     520                     525
              Phe As p As n As p I l e Al a Leu I l e Ly s Leu As n As n Ly s Val Val I l e
                  530                       535                     540
              As n Ser As n I l e Thr Pr o I l e Cy s Leu Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl u Al a Gl u Ser
              545                     550                      555                      560
              Phe Met Ar g Thr As p As p I l e Gl y Thr Al a Ser Gl y Tr p Gl y Leu Thr
                               565                      570                     575
              Gl n Ar g Gl y Phe Leu Al a Ar g As n Leu Met Ty r Val As p I l e Pr o I l e
                             580                    585                   590
              Val As p Hi s Gl n Ly s Cy s Thr Al a Al a Ty r Gl u Ly s Pr o Pr o Ty r Pr o
                       595                     600                      605
              Ar g Gl y Ser Val Thr Al a As n Met Leu Cy s Al a Gl y Leu Gl u Ser Gl y
                   610                   615                    620
                                                           Page 6

                                        MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Ly s As p Ser Cy s Ar g Gl y As p Ser Gl y Gl y Al a Leu Val Phe Leu
              625                     630                     635                   640
              As p Ser Gl u Thr Gl u Ar g Tr p Phe Val Gl y Gl y I l e Val Ser Tr p Gl y
                                645                    650                     655
              Ser Met As n Cy s Gl y Gl u Al a Gl y Gl n Ty r Gl y Val Ty r Thr Ly s Val
                           660                      665                     670
<removed-apn>
              I l e As n Ty r I l e Pr o Tr p I l e Gl u As n I l e I l e Ser As p Phe
                         675                        680                       685
              <210>    6
              <211>    671
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    homo s api ens
              <400>    6
              Thr Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Ly s Tr p Pr o Gl u Pr o Val Phe Gl y Ar g Leu Al a
              1                 5                        10                     15
              Ser Pr o Gl y Phe Pr o Gl y Gl u Ty r Al a As n As p Gl n Gl u Ar g Ar g Tr p
                            20                      25                       30
              Thr Leu Thr Al a Pr o Pr o Gl y Ty r Ar g Leu Ar g Leu Ty r Phe Thr Hi s
                      35                      40                     45
              Phe As p Leu Gl u Leu Ser Hi s Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Phe Val Ly s Leu
                  50                    55                      60
              Ser Ser Gl y Al a Ly s Val Leu Al a Thr Leu Cy s Gl y Gl n Gl u Ser Thr
              65                     70                   75                      80
              As p Thr Gl u Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s As p Thr Phe Ty r Ser Leu Gl y Ser
                                 85                       90                   95
              Ser Leu As p I l e Thr Phe Ar g Ser As p Ty r Ser As n Gl u Ly s Pr o Phe
                           100                    105                     110
              Thr Gl y Phe Gl u Al a Phe Ty r Al a Al a Gl u As p I l e As p Gl u Cy s Gl n
                       115                    120                       125
              Val Al a Pr o Gl y Gl u Al a Pr o Thr Cy s As p Hi s Hi s Cy s Hi s As n Hi s
                  130                      135                     140
              Leu Gl y Gl y Phe Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Al a Gl y Ty r Val Leu Hi s Ar g
              145                    150                     155                    160
              As n Ly s Ar g Thr Cy s Ser Al a Leu Cy s Ser Gl y Gl n Val Phe Thr Gl n
                                 165                    170                   175
                                                              Page 7

                                     MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ar g Ser Gl y Gl u Leu Ser Ser Pr o Gl u Ty r Pr o Ar g Pr o Ty r Pr o Ly s
                            180                   185                      190
              Leu Ser Ser Cy s Thr Ty r Ser I l e Ser Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Phe Ser Val
                      195                   200                     205
              I l e Leu As p Phe Val Gl u Ser Phe As p Val Gl u Thr Hi s Pr o Gl u Thr
                    210                   215                   220
<removed-apn>
              Leu Cy s Pr o Ty r As p Phe Leu Ly s I l e Gl n Thr As p Ar g Gl u Gl u Hi s
              225                     230                     235                     240
              Gl y Pr o Phe Cy s Gl y Ly s Thr Leu Pr o Hi s Ar g I l e Gl u Thr Ly s Ser
                                 245                    250                      255
              As n Thr Val Thr I l e Thr Phe Val Thr As p Gl u Ser Gl y As p Hi s Thr
                           260                   265                    270
              Gl y Tr p Ly s I l e Hi s Ty r Thr Ser Thr Al a Gl n Pr o Cy s Pr o Ty r Pr o
                        275                      280                    285
              Met Al a Pr o Pr o As n Gl y Hi s Val Ser Pr o Val Gl n Al a Ly s Ty r I l e
                  290                      295                   300
              Leu Ly s As p Ser Phe Ser I l e Phe Cy s Gl u Thr Gl y Ty r Gl u Leu Leu
              305                   310                     315                    320
              Gl n Gl y Hi s Leu Pr o Leu Ly s Ser Phe Thr Al a Val Cy s Gl n Ly s As p
                                 325                   330                    335
              Gl y Ser Tr p As p Ar g Pr o Met Pr o Al a Cy s Ser I l e Val As p Cy s Gl y
                            340                     345                     350
              Pr o Pr o As p As p Leu Pr o Ser Gl y Ar g Val Gl u Ty r I l e Thr Gl y Pr o
                        355                    360                     365
              Gl y Val Thr Thr Ty r Ly s Al a Val I l e Gl n Ty r Ser Cy s Gl u Gl u Thr
                   370                   375                      380
              Phe Ty r Thr Met Ly s Val As n As p Gl y Ly s Ty r Val Cy s Gl u Al a As p
              385                   390                     395                     400
              Gl y Phe Tr p Thr Ser Ser Ly s Gl y Gl u Ly s Ser Leu Pr o Val Cy s Gl u
                                405                    410                   415
              Pr o Val Cy s Gl y Leu Ser Al a Ar g Thr Thr Gl y Gl y Ar g I l e Ty r Gl y
                            420                    425                    430
              Gl y Gl n Ly s Al a Ly s Pr o Gl y As p Phe Pr o Tr p Gl n Val Leu I l e Leu
                        435                      440                     445
                                                           Page 8

                                     MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Gl y Thr Thr Al a Al a Gl y Al a Leu Leu Ty r As p As n Tr p Val Leu
                   450                    455                    460
              Thr Al a Al a Hi s Al a Val Ty r Gl u Gl n Ly s Hi s As p Al a Ser Al a Leu
              465                     470                     475                     480
              As p I l e Ar g Met Gl y Thr Leu Ly s Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n
                                  485                    490                    495
<removed-apn>
              Al a Tr p Ser Gl u Al a Val Phe I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Ty r Thr Hi s As p Al a
                            500                     505                     510
              Gl y Phe As p As n As p I l e Al a Leu I l e Ly s Leu As n As n Ly s Val Val
                       515                       520                     525
              I l e As n Ser As n I l e Thr Pr o I l e Cy s Leu Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl u Al a Gl u
                    530                     535                      540
              Ser Phe Met Ar g Thr As p As p I l e Gl y Thr Al a Ser Gl y Tr p Gl y Leu
              545                  550                      555                     560
              Thr Gl n Ar g Gl y Phe Leu Al a Ar g As n Leu Met Ty r Val As p I l e Pr o
                                 565                    570                   575
              I l e Val As p Hi s Gl n Ly s Cy s Thr Al a Al a Ty r Gl u Ly s Pr o Pr o Ty r
                             580                     585                      590
              Pr o Ar g Gl y Ser Val Thr Al a As n Met Leu Cy s Al a Gl y Leu Gl u Ser
                        595                   600                    605
              Gl y Gl y Ly s As p Ser Cy s Ar g Gl y As p Ser Gl y Gl y Al a Leu Val Phe
                   610                     615                     620
              Leu As p Ser Gl u Thr Gl u Ar g Tr p Phe Val Gl y Gl y I l e Val Ser Tr p
              625                   630                    635                     640
              Gl y Ser Met As n Cy s Gl y Gl u Al a Gl y Gl n Ty r Gl y Val Ty r Thr Ly s
                                645                      650                     655
              Val I l e As n Ty r I l e Pr o Tr p I l e Gl u As n I l e I l e Ser As p Phe
                             660                        665                       670
              <210>     7
              <211>     3895
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     homo s api ens
              <400> 7
              at t c c ggc ac agggac ac aa ac aagc t c ac c c aac aaagc c aagc t ggga ggac c aaggc             60
              c gggc agc c g ggagc ac c c a aggc aggaaa at gaggt ggc t gc t t c t c t a t t at gc t c t g     120
              t gc t t c t c c c t gt c aaaggc t t c agc c c ac ac c gt ggagc t aaac aat at gt t t ggc c ag   180
                                                                   Page 9

                                             MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              at c c agt c gc c t ggt t at c c agac t c c t at c c c agt gat t c agaggt gac t t ggaat at c            240
              ac t gt c c c ag at gggt t t c g gat c aagc t t t ac t t c at gc ac t t c aac t t ggaat c c t c c       300
              t ac c t t t gt g aat at gac t a t gt gaaggt a gaaac t gagg ac c aggt gc t ggc aac c t t c              360
              t gt ggc aggg agac c ac aga c ac agagc ag ac t c c c ggc c aggaggt ggt c c t c t c c c c t              420
              ggc t c c t t c a t gt c c at c ac t t t c c ggt c a gat t t c t c c a at gaggagc g t t t c ac aggc     480
              t t t gat gc c c ac t ac at ggc t gt ggat gt g gac gagt gc a aggagaggga ggac gaggag                     540
<removed-apn>
              c t gt c c t gt g ac c ac t ac t g c c ac aac t ac at t ggc ggc t ac t ac t gc t c c t gc c gc t t c    600
              ggc t ac at c c t c c ac ac aga c aac aggac c t gc c gagt gg agt gc agt ga c aac c t c t t c            660
              ac t c aaagga c t ggggt gat c ac c agc c c t gac t t c c c aa ac c c t t ac c c c aagagc t c t          720
              gaat gc c t gt at ac c at c ga gc t ggaggag ggt t t c at gg t c aac c t gc a gt t t gaggac              780
              at at t t gac a t t gaggac c a t c c t gaggt g c c c t gc c c c t at gac t ac at c aagat c aaa          840
              gt t ggt c c aa aagt t t t ggg gc c t t t c t gt ggagagaaag c c c c agaac c c at c agc ac c             900
              c agagc c ac a gt gt c c t gat c c t gt t c c at agt gac aac t c gggagagaa c c ggggc t gg               960
              aggc t c t c at ac agggc t gc aggaaat gag t gc c c agagc t ac agc c t c c t gt c c at ggg              1020
              aaaat c gagc c c t c c c aagc c aagt at t t c t t c aaagac c aagt gc t c gt c agc t gt gac             1080
              ac aggc t ac a aagt gc t gaa ggat aat gt g gagat ggac a c at t c c agat t gagt gt c t g                1140
              aaggat ggga c gt ggagt aa c aagat t c c c ac c t gt aaaa t t gt agac t g t agagc c c c a               1200
              ggagagc t gg aac ac gggc t gat c ac c t t c t c t ac aagga ac aac c t c ac c ac at ac aag              1260
              t c t gagat c a aat ac t c c t g t c aggagc c c t at t ac aaga t gc t c aac aa t aac ac aggt           1320
              at at at ac c t gt t c t gc c c a aggagt c t gg at gaat aaag t at t ggggag aagc c t ac c c             1380
              ac c t gc c t t c c agagt gt gg t c agc c c t c c c gc t c c c t gc c aagc c t ggt c aagaggat c        1440
              at t gggggc c gaaat gc t ga gc c t ggc c t c t t c c c gt ggc aggc c c t gat agt ggt ggag              1500
              gac ac t t c ga gagt gc c aaa t gac aagt gg t t t gggagt g gggc c c t gc t c t c t gc gt c c           1560
              t ggat c c t c a c agc agc t c a t gt gc t gc gc t c c c agc gt a gagac ac c ac ggt gat ac c a         1620
              gt c t c c aagg agc at gt c ac c gt c t ac c t g ggc t t gc at g at gt gc gaga c aaat c gggg           1680
              gc agt c aac a gc t c agc t gc c c gagt ggt g c t c c ac c c ag ac t t c aac at c c aaaac t ac         1740
              aac c ac gat a t agc t c t ggt gc agc t gc ag gagc c t gt gc c c c t gggac c c c ac gt t at g          1800
              c c t gt c t gc c t gc c aaggc t t gagc c t gaa ggc c c ggc c c c c c ac at gc t gggc c t ggt g        1860
              gc c ggc t ggg gc at c t c c aa t c c c aat gt g ac agt ggat g agat c at c ag c agt ggc ac a           1920
              c ggac c t t gt c agat gt c c t gc agt at gt c aagt t ac c c g t ggt gc c t c a c gc t gagt gc         1980
              aaaac t agc t at gagt c c c g c t c gggc aat t ac agc gt c a c ggagaac at gt t c t gt gc t             2040
              ggc t ac t ac g agggc ggc aa agac ac gt gc c t t ggagat a gc ggt ggggc c t t t gt c at c               2100
              t t t gat gac t t gagc c agc g c t gggt ggt g c aaggc c t gg t gt c c t gggg gggac c t gaa             2160
              gaat gc ggc a gc aagc aggt c t at ggagt c t ac ac aaagg t c t c c aat t a c gt ggac t gg               2220
                                                                      Page 10

                                       MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              gt gt gggagc agat gggc t t ac c ac aaagt gt t gt ggagc c c c aggt gga ac ggt gagc t                     2280
              gac t t ac t t c c t c ggggc c t gc c t c c c c t g agc gaagc t a c ac c gc ac t t c c gac agc ac       2340
              ac t c c ac at t ac t t at c aga c c at at ggaa t ggaac ac ac t gac c t agc g gt ggc t t c t c          2400
              c t ac c gagac agc c c c c agg ac c c t gagag gc agagt gt g gt at agggaa aaggc t c c ag                 2460
              gc aggagac c t gt gt t c c t g agc t t gt c c a agt c t c t t t c c c t gt c t ggg c c t c ac t c t a   2520
              c c gagt aat a c aat gc agga gc t c aac c aa ggc c t c t gt g c c aat c c c ag c ac t c c t t t c       2580
<removed-apn>
              c aggc c at gc t t c t t ac c c c agt ggc c t t t at t c ac t c c t gac c ac t t at c aaac c c at c     2640
              ggt c c t ac t g t t ggt at aac t gagc t t gga c c t gac t at t agaaaat ggt t t c t aac at t            2700
              gaac t gaat g c c gc at c t gt at at t t t c c t gc t c t gc c t t c t gggac t ag c c t t ggc c t a     2760
              at c c t t c c t c t aggagaaga gc at t c aggt t t t gggagat ggc t c at agc c aagc c c c t c             2820
              t c t c t t agt g t gat c c c t t g gagc ac c t t c at gc c t gggg t t t c t c t c c c aaaagc t t c t   2880
              t gc agt c t aa gc c t t at c c c t t at gt t c c c c at t aaagga at t t c aaaag ac at ggagaa           2940
              agt t gggaag gt t t gt gc t g ac t gc t ggga gc agaat agc c gt gggaggc c c ac c aagc c                  3000
              c t t aaat t c c c at t gt c aac t c agaac ac a t t t gggc c c a t at gc c ac c c t ggaac ac c a        3060
              gc t gac ac c a t gggc gt c c a c ac c t gc t gc t c c agac aag c ac aaagc aa t c t t t c agc c         3120
              t t gaaat gt a t t at c t gaaa ggc t ac c t ga agc c c aggc c c gaat at ggg gac t t agt c g             3180
              at t ac c t gga aaaagaaaag ac c c ac ac t g t gt c c t gc t g t gc t t t t ggg c aggaaaat g             3240
              gaagaaagag t ggggt gggc ac at t agaag t c ac c c aaat c c t gc c aggc t gc c t ggc at                   3300
              c c c t ggggc a t gagc t gggc ggagaat c c a c c c c gc agga t gt t c agagg gac c c ac t c c             3360
              t t c at t t t t c agagt c aaag gaat c agagg c t c ac c c at g gc aggc agt g aaaagagc c a               3420
              ggagt c c t gg gt t c t agt c c c t gc t c t gc c c c c aac t ggc t gt at aac c t t t gaaaaat c         3480
              at t t t c t t t g t c t gagt c t c t ggt t c t c c g t c agc aac ag gc t ggc at aa ggt c c c c t gc    3540
              aggt t c c t t c t agc t ggagc ac t c agagc t t c c c t gac t g c t agc agc c t c t c t ggc c c t       3600
              c ac agggc t g at t gt t c t c c t t c t c c c t gg agc t c t c t c t c c t gaaaat c t c c at c agag    3660
              c aaggc agc c agagaagc c c c t gagaggga at gat t ggga agt gt c c ac t t t c t c aac c g                 3720
              gc t c at c aaa c ac ac t c c t t t gt c t at gaa t ggc ac at gt aaat gat gt t at at t t t gt a         3780
              t c t t t t at at c at at gc t t c ac c at t c t gt aaagggc c t c t gc at t gt t g c t c c c at c ag    3840
              gggt c t c aag t ggaaat aaa c c c t c gt gga t aac c aaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa                             3895
              <210>     8
              <211>     728
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     homo s api ens
              <400>     8
              Met Ar g Tr p Leu Leu Leu Ty r Ty r Al a Leu Cy s Phe Ser Leu Ser Ly s
              1                 5                      10                   15
                                                                       Page 11

                                     MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a Ser Al a Hi s Thr Val Gl u Leu As n As n Met Phe Gl y Gl n I l e Gl n
                            20                    25                     30
              Ser Pr o Gl y Ty r Pr o As p Ser Ty r Pr o Ser As p Ser Gl u Val Thr Tr p
                       35                      40                     45
              As n I l e Thr Val Pr o As p Gl y Phe Ar g I l e Ly s Leu Ty r Phe Met Hi s
                   50                      55                       60
<removed-apn>
              Phe As n Leu Gl u Ser Ser Ty r Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Val Ly s Val
              65                    70                     75                      80
              Gl u Thr Gl u As p Gl n Val Leu Al a Thr Phe Cy s Gl y Ar g Gl u Thr Thr
                                 85                    90                      95
              As p Thr Gl u Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u Val Val Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ser
                            100                     105                  110
              Phe Met Ser I l e Thr Phe Ar g Ser As p Phe Ser As n Gl u Gl u Ar g Phe
                      115                    120                   125
              Thr Gl y Phe As p Al a Hi s Ty r Met Al a Val As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ly s
                  130                     135                    140
              Gl u Ar g Gl u As p Gl u Gl u Leu Ser Cy s As p Hi s Ty r Cy s Hi s As n Ty r
              145                      150                    155                      160
              I l e Gl y Gl y Ty r Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Phe Gl y Ty r I l e Leu Hi s Thr
                                   165                     170                     175
              As p As n Ar g Thr Cy s Ar g Val Gl u Cy s Ser As p As n Leu Phe Thr Gl n
                             180                    185                    190
              Ar g Thr Gl y Val I l e Thr Ser Pr o As p Phe Pr o As n Pr o Ty r Pr o Ly s
                       195                    200                     205
              Ser Ser Gl u Cy s Leu Ty r Thr I l e Gl u Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Phe Met Val
                  210                    215                     220
              As n Leu Gl n Phe Gl u As p I l e Phe As p I l e Gl u As p Hi s Pr o Gl u Val
              225                    230                       235                      240
              Pr o Cy s Pr o Ty r As p Ty r I l e Ly s I l e Ly s Val Gl y Pr o Ly s Val Leu
                                  245                        250                     255
              Gl y Pr o Phe Cy s Gl y Gl u Ly s Al a Pr o Gl u Pr o I l e Ser Thr Gl n Ser
                            260                      265                      270
              Hi s Ser Val Leu I l e Leu Phe Hi s Ser As p As n Ser Gl y Gl u As n Ar g
                       275                   280                    285
                                                           Page 12

                                     MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Tr p Ar g Leu Ser Ty r Ar g Al a Al a Gl y As n Gl u Cy s Pr o Gl u Leu
                   290                    295                      300
              Gl n Pr o Pr o Val Hi s Gl y Ly s I l e Gl u Pr o Ser Gl n Al a Ly s Ty r Phe
              305                     310                       315                     320
              Phe Ly s As p Gl n Val Leu Val Ser Cy s As p Thr Gl y Ty r Ly s Val Leu
                                 325                  330                     335
<removed-apn>
              Ly s As p As n Val Gl u Met As p Thr Phe Gl n I l e Gl u Cy s Leu Ly s As p
                             340                   345                      350
              Gl y Thr Tr p Ser As n Ly s I l e Pr o Thr Cy s Ly s I l e Val As p Cy s Ar g
                       355                      360                      365
              Al a Pr o Gl y Gl u Leu Gl u Hi s Gl y Leu I l e Thr Phe Ser Thr Ar g As n
                   370                     375                     380
              As n Leu Thr Thr Ty r Ly s Ser Gl u I l e Ly s Ty r Ser Cy s Gl n Gl u Pr o
              385                   390                      395                     400
              Ty r Ty r Ly s Met Leu As n As n As n Thr Gl y I l e Ty r Thr Cy s Ser Al a
                                 405                    410                      415
              Gl n Gl y Val Tr p Met As n Ly s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Thr Cy s
                            420                    425                   430
              Leu Pr o Gl u Cy s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ser Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Ser Leu Val Ly s
                       435                      440                   445
              Ar g I l e I l e Gl y Gl y Ar g As n Al a Gl u Pr o Gl y Leu Phe Pr o Tr p Gl n
                   450                        455                      460
              Al a Leu I l e Val Val Gl u As p Thr Ser Ar g Val Pr o As n As p Ly s Tr p
              465                    470                    475                     480
              Phe Gl y Ser Gl y Al a Leu Leu Ser Al a Ser Tr p I l e Leu Thr Al a Al a
                                485                   490                    495
              Hi s Val Leu Ar g Ser Gl n Ar g Ar g As p Thr Thr Val I l e Pr o Val Ser
                           500                     505                    510
              Ly s Gl u Hi s Val Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl y Leu Hi s As p Val Ar g As p Ly s
                        515                   520                    525
              Ser Gl y Al a Val As n Ser Ser Al a Al a Ar g Val Val Leu Hi s Pr o As p
                  530                    535                    540
              Phe As n I l e Gl n As n Ty r As n Hi s As p I l e Al a Leu Val Gl n Leu Gl n
              545                      550                       555                   560
                                                           Page 13

                                     MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u Pr o Val Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Hi s Val Met Pr o Val Cy s Leu Pr o Ar g
                                 565                    570                   575
              Leu Gl u Pr o Gl u Gl y Pr o Al a Pr o Hi s Met Leu Gl y Leu Val Al a Gl y
                            580                      585                   590
              Tr p Gl y I l e Ser As n Pr o As n Val Thr Val As p Gl u I l e I l e Ser Ser
                        595                      600                   605
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Thr Ar g Thr Leu Ser As p Val Leu Gl n Ty r Val Ly s Leu Pr o Val
                   610                  615                    620
              Val Pr o Hi s Al a Gl u Cy s Ly s Thr Ser Ty r Gl u Ser Ar g Ser Gl y As n
              625                     630                    635                    640
              Ty r Ser Val Thr Gl u As n Met Phe Cy s Al a Gl y Ty r Ty r Gl u Gl y Gl y
                               645                    650                      655
              Ly s As p Thr Cy s Leu Gl y As p Ser Gl y Gl y Al a Phe Val I l e Phe As p
                            660                    665                    670
              As p Leu Ser Gl n Ar g Tr p Val Val Gl n Gl y Leu Val Ser Tr p Gl y Gl y
                       675                    680                   685
              Pr o Gl u Gl u Cy s Gl y Ser Ly s Gl n Val Ty r Gl y Val Ty r Thr Ly s Val
                   690                     695                     700
              Ser As n Ty r Val As p Tr p Val Tr p Gl u Gl n Met Gl y Leu Pr o Gl n Ser
              705                    710                     715                    720
              Val Val Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Gl u Ar g
                                725
              <210>     9
              <211>     2852
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     homo s api ens
              <400> 9
              t ggc gat ac a t t c ac ac agg aac agc t at g c c at gt t t ac gaat t c c ggt t t t gaaaaaa           60
              c t t t c gt t ga c agt t ac ac a aagggt c ac t t c c t c c c c ag c gac ac at gg gc c t c t c aaa   120
              ggagaggagg gagt aagt c c c ac ggt aggg c c agt ggt t g c t c c c t gggt t t t ggaat c a              180
              t t t c t gc gga gc t t t c aagg c c agac c c t g ggc t t agggt c gagac t t t a t agc agt gac        240
              agc c agac c c agc aagat gg c t gc gac c gt gaaac c c t gg gc ggc gat c c gggt gc gc at              300
              c at gagc t ga gagc gc t ggc t gt t gc c c c g gt ggaaggag t agaggc c gt aggt gagggc                 360
              ggc c gc c gt g gc c aggc aac c t at gggt ac c ac c gggt t c t c gc gggc aa gt c aagc t gg           420
              gaggac c aag gc c gggc agc c gggagc ac c c aaggc agga aaat gaggt g gc t gc t t c t c                 480
              t at t at gc t c t gt gc t t c t c c c t gt c aaag gc t t c agc c c ac ac c gt gga gc t aaac aat     540
                                                                     Page 14

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              at gt t t ggc c agat c c agt c gc c t ggt t at c c agac t c c t at c c c agt ga t t c agaggt g          600
              ac t t ggaat a t c ac t gt c c c agat gggt t t c ggat c aagc t t t ac t t c at gc ac t t c aac          660
              t t ggaat c c t c c t ac c t t t g t gaat at gac t at gt gaagg t agaaac t ga ggac c aggt g              720
              c t ggc aac c t t c t gt ggc ag ggagac c ac a gac ac agagc agac t c c c gg c c aggaggt g                780
              gt c c t c t c c c c t ggc t c c t t c at gt c c at c ac t t t c c ggt c agat t t c t c c aat gaggag    840
              c gt t t c ac ag gc t t t gat gc c c ac t ac at g gc t gt ggat g t ggac gagt g c aaggagagg              900
<removed-apn>
              gaggac gagg agc t gt c c t g t gac c ac t ac t gc c ac aac t ac at t ggc gg c t ac t ac t gc            960
              t c c t gc c gc t t c ggc t ac at c c t c c ac ac a gac aac agga c c t gc c gagt ggagt gc agt          1020
              gac aac c t c t t c ac t c aaag gac t ggggt g at c ac c agc c c t gac t t c c c aaac c c t t ac        1080
              c c c aagagc t c t gaat gc c t gt at ac c at c gagc t ggagg agggt t t c at ggt c aac c t g             1140
              c agt t t gagg ac at at t t ga c at t gaggac c at c c t gagg t gc c c t gc c c c t at gac t ac         1200
              at c aagat c a aagt t ggt c c aaaagt t t t g gggc c t t t c t gt ggagagaa agc c c c agaa               1260
              c c c at c agc a c c c agagc c a c agt gt c c t g at c c t gt t c c at agt gac aa c t c gggagag        1320
              aac c ggggc t ggaggc t c t c at ac agggc t gc aggaaat g agt gc c c aga gc t ac agc c t                 1380
              c c t gt c c at g ggaaaat c ga gc c c t c c c aa gc c aagt at t t c t t c aaaga c c aagt gc t c        1440
              gt c agc t gt g ac ac aggc t a c aaagt gc t g aaggat aat g t ggagat gga c ac at t c c ag               1500
              at t gagt gt c t gaaggat gg gac gt ggagt aac aagat t c c c ac c t gt aa aat t gt agac                  1560
              t gt agagc c c c aggagagc t ggaac ac ggg c t gat c ac c t t c t c t ac aag gaac aac c t c              1620
              ac c ac at ac a agt c t gagat c aaat ac t c c t gt c aggagc c c t at t ac aa gat gc t c aac            1680
              aat aac ac ag gt at at at ac c t gt t c t gc c c aaggagt c t ggat gaat aa agt at t gggg                1740
              agaagc c t ac c c ac c t gc c t t c c agt gt gt gggc t c c c c a agt t c t c c c g gaagc t gat g       1800
              gc c aggat c t t c aat ggac g c c c agc c c ag aaaggc ac c a c t c c c t ggat t gc c at gc t g         1860
              t c ac ac c t ga at gggc agc c c t t c t gc gga ggc t c c c t t c t aggc t c c ag c t ggat c gt g      1920
              ac c gc c gc ac ac t gc c t c c a c c agt c ac t c gat c c gaaag at c c gac c c t ac gt gat t c a      1980
              gac t t gc t c a gc c c t t c t ga c t t c aaaat c at c c t gggc a agc at t ggag gc t c c ggt c a      2040
              gat gaaaat g aac agc at c t c ggc gt aaaa c ac ac c ac t c t c c ac c c c aa gt at gat c c c           2100
              aac ac at t c g agaat gac gt ggc t c t ggt g gagc t gt t gg agagc c c agt gc t gaat gc c               2160
              t t c gt gat gc c c at c t gt c t gc c t gaggga c c c c agc agg aaggagc c at ggt c at c gt c           2220
              agc ggc t ggg gaaagc agt t c t t gc aaagg t t c c c agaga c c c t gat gga gat t gaaat c                2280
              c c gat t gt t g ac c ac agc ac c t gc c agaag gc t t at gc c c c gc t gaagaa gaaagt gac c             2340
              agggac at ga t c t gt gc t gg ggagaaggaa gggggaaagg ac gc c t gt t c gggt gac t c t                    2400
              ggaggc c c c a t ggt gac c c t gaat agagaa agaggc c agt ggt ac c t ggt gggc ac t gt g                  2460
              t c c t ggggt g at gac t gt gg gaagaaggac c gc t ac ggag t at ac t c t t a c at c c ac c ac            2520
              aac aaggac t ggat c c agag ggt c ac c gga gt gaggaac t gaat t t ggc t c c t c agc c c c                2580
                                                                      Page 15

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              agc ac c ac c a gc t gt gggc a gt c agt agc a gaggac gat c c t c c gat gaa agc agc c at t                   2640
              t c t c c t t t c c t t c c t c c c at c c c c c c t c c t t c ggc c t at c c at t ac t ggg c aat agagc a   2700
              ggt at c t t c a c c c c c t t t t c ac t c t c t t t a aagagat gga gc aagagagt ggt c agaac a               2760
              c aggc c gaat c c aggc t c t a t c ac t t ac t a gt t t t c agt t c t gggc aggt gac t t c at c t            2820
              c t t c gaac t t c agt t t c t t c at aagat gga aa                                                          2852
              <210>      10
<removed-apn>
              <211>      699
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      homo s api ens
              <400>      10
              Met Ar g Tr p Leu Leu Leu Ty r Ty r Al a Leu Cy s Phe Ser Leu Ser Ly s
              1                 5                      10                   15
              Al a Ser Al a Hi s Thr Val Gl u Leu As n As n Met Phe Gl y Gl n I l e Gl n
                            20                    25                     30
              Ser Pr o Gl y Ty r Pr o As p Ser Ty r Pr o Ser As p Ser Gl u Val Thr Tr p
                       35                      40                     45
              As n I l e Thr Val Pr o As p Gl y Phe Ar g I l e Ly s Leu Ty r Phe Met Hi s
                   50                      55                       60
              Phe As n Leu Gl u Ser Ser Ty r Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Val Ly s Val
              65                    70                     75                      80
              Gl u Thr Gl u As p Gl n Val Leu Al a Thr Phe Cy s Gl y Ar g Gl u Thr Thr
                                 85                    90                      95
              As p Thr Gl u Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u Val Val Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ser
                            100                     105                  110
              Phe Met Ser I l e Thr Phe Ar g Ser As p Phe Ser As n Gl u Gl u Ar g Phe
                      115                    120                   125
              Thr Gl y Phe As p Al a Hi s Ty r Met Al a Val As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ly s
                  130                     135                    140
              Gl u Ar g Gl u As p Gl u Gl u Leu Ser Cy s As p Hi s Ty r Cy s Hi s As n Ty r
              145                      150                    155                      160
              I l e Gl y Gl y Ty r Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Phe Gl y Ty r I l e Leu Hi s Thr
                                   165                     170                     175
              As p As n Ar g Thr Cy s Ar g Val Gl u Cy s Ser As p As n Leu Phe Thr Gl n
                             180                    185                    190
              Ar g Thr Gl y Val I l e Thr Ser Pr o As p Phe Pr o As n Pr o Ty r Pr o Ly s
                       195                    200                     205
                                                         Page 16

                                      MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Gl u Cy s Leu Ty r Thr I l e Gl u Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Phe Met Val
                  210                    215                     220
              As n Leu Gl n Phe Gl u As p I l e Phe As p I l e Gl u As p Hi s Pr o Gl u Val
              225                    230                       235                      240
              Pr o Cy s Pr o Ty r As p Ty r I l e Ly s I l e Ly s Val Gl y Pr o Ly s Val Leu
                                  245                        250                     255
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Pr o Phe Cy s Gl y Gl u Ly s Al a Pr o Gl u Pr o I l e Ser Thr Gl n Ser
                            260                      265                      270
              Hi s Ser Val Leu I l e Leu Phe Hi s Ser As p As n Ser Gl y Gl u As n Ar g
                       275                   280                    285
              Gl y Tr p Ar g Leu Ser Ty r Ar g Al a Al a Gl y As n Gl u Cy s Pr o Gl u Leu
                   290                    295                      300
              Gl n Pr o Pr o Val Hi s Gl y Ly s I l e Gl u Pr o Ser Gl n Al a Ly s Ty r Phe
              305                     310                       315                     320
              Phe Ly s As p Gl n Val Leu Val Ser Cy s As p Thr Gl y Ty r Ly s Val Leu
                                 325                  330                     335
              Ly s As p As n Val Gl u Met As p Thr Phe Gl n I l e Gl u Cy s Leu Ly s As p
                             340                   345                      350
              Gl y Thr Tr p Ser As n Ly s I l e Pr o Thr Cy s Ly s I l e Val As p Cy s Ar g
                       355                      360                      365
              Al a Pr o Gl y Gl u Leu Gl u Hi s Gl y Leu I l e Thr Phe Ser Thr Ar g As n
                   370                     375                     380
              As n Leu Thr Thr Ty r Ly s Ser Gl u I l e Ly s Ty r Ser Cy s Gl n Gl u Pr o
              385                   390                      395                     400
              Ty r Ty r Ly s Met Leu As n As n As n Thr Gl y I l e Ty r Thr Cy s Ser Al a
                                 405                    410                      415
              Gl n Gl y Val Tr p Met As n Ly s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Thr Cy s
                            420                    425                   430
              Leu Pr o Val Cy s Gl y Leu Pr o Ly s Phe Ser Ar g Ly s Leu Met Al a Ar g
                       435                    440                    445
              I l e Phe As n Gl y Ar g Pr o Al a Gl n Ly s Gl y Thr Thr Pr o Tr p I l e Al a
                    450                     455                     460
              Met Leu Ser Hi s Leu As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Phe Cy s Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Leu
              465                  470                     475                    480
                                                        Page 17

                                       MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Ser Ser Tr p I l e Val Thr Al a Al a Hi s Cy s Leu Hi s Gl n Ser Leu
                                485                     490                     495
              As p Pr o Ly s As p Pr o Thr Leu Ar g As p Ser As p Leu Leu Ser Pr o Ser
                             500                    505                   510
              As p Phe Ly s I l e I l e Leu Gl y Ly s Hi s Tr p Ar g Leu Ar g Ser As p Gl u
                       515                       520                     525
<removed-apn>
              As n Gl u Gl n Hi s Leu Gl y Val Ly s Hi s Thr Thr Leu Hi s Pr o Ly s Ty r
                   530                     535                   540
              As p Pr o As n Thr Phe Gl u As n As p Val Al a Leu Val Gl u Leu Leu Gl u
              545                    550                     555                  560
              Ser Pr o Val Leu As n Al a Phe Val Met Pr o I l e Cy s Leu Pr o Gl u Gl y
                               565                   570                      575
              Pr o Gl n Gl n Gl u Gl y Al a Met Val I l e Val Ser Gl y Tr p Gl y Ly s Gl n
                             580                    585                     590
              Phe Leu Gl n Ar g Phe Pr o Gl u Thr Leu Met Gl u I l e Gl u I l e Pr o I l e
                      595                     600                    605
              Val As p Hi s Ser Thr Cy s Gl n Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Pr o Leu Ly s Ly s Ly s
                  610                    615                      620
              Val Thr Ar g As p Met I l e Cy s Al a Gl y Gl u Ly s Gl u Gl y Gl y Ly s As p
              625                   630                       635                      640
              Al a Cy s Ser Gl y As p Ser Gl y Gl y Pr o Met Val Thr Leu As n Ar g Gl u
                                 645                     650                  655
              Ar g Gl y Gl n Tr p Ty r Leu Val Gl y Thr Val Ser Tr p Gl y As p As p Cy s
                             660                    665                   670
              Gl y Ly s Ly s As p Ar g Ty r Gl y Val Ty r Ser Ty r I l e Hi s Hi s As n Ly s
                        675                      680                     685
              As p Tr p I l e Gl n Ar g Val Thr Gl y Val Ar g As n
                   690                      695
              <210>   11
              <211>   380
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   homo s api ens
              <400>   11
              Met Ar g Tr p Leu Leu Leu Ty r Ty r Al a Leu Cy s Phe Ser Leu Ser Ly s
              1                 5                      10                   15
                                                           Page 18

                                      MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a Ser Al a Hi s Thr Val Gl u Leu As n As n Met Phe Gl y Gl n I l e Gl n
                            20                    25                     30
              Ser Pr o Gl y Ty r Pr o As p Ser Ty r Pr o Ser As p Ser Gl u Val Thr Tr p
                       35                      40                     45
              As n I l e Thr Val Pr o As p Gl y Phe Ar g I l e Ly s Leu Ty r Phe Met Hi s
                   50                      55                       60
<removed-apn>
              Phe As n Leu Gl u Ser Ser Ty r Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Val Ly s Val
              65                    70                     75                      80
              Gl u Thr Gl u As p Gl n Val Leu Al a Thr Phe Cy s Gl y Ar g Gl u Thr Thr
                                 85                    90                      95
              As p Thr Gl u Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u Val Val Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ser
                            100                     105                  110
              Phe Met Ser I l e Thr Phe Ar g Ser As p Phe Ser As n Gl u Gl u Ar g Phe
                      115                    120                   125
              Thr Gl y Phe As p Al a Hi s Ty r Met Al a Val As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ly s
                  130                     135                    140
              Gl u Ar g Gl u As p Gl u Gl u Leu Ser Cy s As p Hi s Ty r Cy s Hi s As n Ty r
              145                      150                    155                      160
              I l e Gl y Gl y Ty r Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Phe Gl y Ty r I l e Leu Hi s Thr
                                   165                     170                     175
              As p As n Ar g Thr Cy s Ar g Val Gl u Cy s Ser As p As n Leu Phe Thr Gl n
                             180                    185                    190
              Ar g Thr Gl y Val I l e Thr Ser Pr o As p Phe Pr o As n Pr o Ty r Pr o Ly s
                       195                    200                     205
              Ser Ser Gl u Cy s Leu Ty r Thr I l e Gl u Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Phe Met Val
                  210                    215                     220
              As n Leu Gl n Phe Gl u As p I l e Phe As p I l e Gl u As p Hi s Pr o Gl u Val
              225                    230                       235                      240
              Pr o Cy s Pr o Ty r As p Ty r I l e Ly s I l e Ly s Val Gl y Pr o Ly s Val Leu
                                  245                        250                     255
              Gl y Pr o Phe Cy s Gl y Gl u Ly s Al a Pr o Gl u Pr o I l e Ser Thr Gl n Ser
                            260                      265                      270
              Hi s Ser Val Leu I l e Leu Phe Hi s Ser As p As n Ser Gl y Gl u As n Ar g
                       275                   280                    285
                                                           Page 19

                                             MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Tr p Ar g Leu Ser Ty r Ar g Al a Al a Gl y As n Gl u Cy s Pr o Gl u Leu
                   290                    295                      300
              Gl n Pr o Pr o Val Hi s Gl y Ly s I l e Gl u Pr o Ser Gl n Al a Ly s Ty r Phe
              305                     310                       315                     320
              Phe Ly s As p Gl n Val Leu Val Ser Cy s As p Thr Gl y Ty r Ly s Val Leu
                                 325                  330                     335
<removed-apn>
              Ly s As p As n Val Gl u Met As p Thr Phe Gl n I l e Gl u Cy s Leu Ly s As p
                             340                   345                      350
              Gl y Thr Tr p Ser As n Ly s I l e Pr o Thr Cy s Ly s Ly s As n Gl u I l e As p
                       355                      360                     365
              Leu Gl u Ser Gl u Leu Ly s Ser Gl u Gl n Val Thr Gl u
                  370                    375                   380
              <210>     12
              <211>     2091
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     r at t us
              <400> 12
              t ggc ac ac aa t gaggc t ac t gat c gt c c t g ggt c t gc t t t ggagt t t ggt ggc c ac ac t t             60
              t t gggc t c c a agt ggc c t ga gc c t gt at t c gggc gc c t gg t gt c c c t ggc c t t c c c agag        120
              aagt at ggc a ac c at c agga t c gat c c t gg ac gc t gac t g c ac c c c c t gg c t t c c gc c t g       180
              c gc c t c t ac t t c ac c c ac t t c aac c t ggaa c t c t c t t ac c gc t gc gagt a t gac t t t gt c    240
              aagt t gac c t c agggac c aa ggt gc t agc c ac gc t gt gt g ggc aggagag t ac agat ac t                   300
              gagc gggc ac c t ggc aat ga c ac c t t c t ac t c ac t gggt c c c agc c t aaa ggt c ac c t t c           360
              c ac t c c gac t ac t c c aat ga gaagc c at t c ac aggat t t g aggc c t t c t a t gc agc ggag            420
              gat gt ggat g aat gc agaac at c c c t ggga gac t c agt c c c t t gt gac c a t t at t gc c ac             480
              aac t ac c t gg gc ggc t ac t a c t gc t c c t gc c gagt gggc t ac at t c t gc a c c agaac aag           540
              c at ac c t gc t c agc c c t t t g t t c aggc c ag gt gt t c ac t g ggaggt c t gg c t t t c t c agt      600
              agc c c t gagt ac c c ac agc c at ac c c c aaa c t c t c c agc t gc gc c t ac aa c at c c gc c t g       660
              gaggaaggc t t c agt at c ac c c t ggac t t c gt ggagt c c t t t gat gt gga gat gc ac c c t               720
              gaagc c c agt gc c c c t ac ga c t c c c t c aag at t c aaac ag ac aagaggga at ac ggc c c g              780
              t t t t gt ggga agac gc t gc c c c c c aggat t gaaac t gac a gc aac aaggt gac c at t ac c                840
              t t t ac c ac c g ac gagt c agg gaac c ac ac a ggc t ggaaga t ac ac t ac ac aagc ac agc a                900
              c agc c c t gc c c t gat c c aac ggc gc c ac c t aat ggt c ac a t t t c ac c t gt gc aagc c ac g         960
              t at gt c c t ga aggac agc t t t t c t gt c t t c t gc aagac t g gc t t c gagc t t c t gc aaggt         1020
              t c t gt c c c c c t gaagt c at t c ac t gc t gt c t gt c agaaag at ggat c t t g ggac c ggc c g         1080
              at ac c agagt gc agc at t at t gac t gt ggc c c t c c c gat g ac c t ac c c aa t ggc c ac gt g          1140
                                                                 Page 20

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              gac t at at c a c aggc c c t ga agt gac c ac c t ac aaagc t g t gat t c agt a c agc t gt gaa       1200
              gagac t t t c t ac ac aat gag c agc aat ggt aaat at gt gt gt gaggc t ga t ggat t c t gg            1260
              ac gagc t c c a aaggagaaaa at c c c t c c c g gt t t gc aagc c t gt c t gt gg ac t gt c c ac a     1320
              c ac ac t t c ag gaggc c gt at aat t ggagga c agc c t gc aa agc c t ggt ga c t t t c c t t gg      1380
              c aagt c t t gt t ac t gggt ga aac t ac agc a gc aggt gc t c t t at ac at ga c gac t gggt c        1440
              c t aac agc gg c t c at gc t gt at at gggaaa ac agaggc ga t gt c c t c c c t ggac at c c gc        1500
<removed-apn>
              at gggc at c c t c aaaaggc t c t c c c t c at t t ac ac t c aag c c t ggc c aga ggc t gt c t t t   1560
              at c c at gaag gc t ac ac t c a c ggagc t ggt t t t gac aat g at at agc ac t gat t aaac t c        1620
              aagaac aaag t c ac aat c aa c agaaac at c at gc c gat t t gt c t ac c aag aaaagaagc t              1680
              gc at c c t t aa t gaaaac aga c t t c gt t gga ac t gt ggc t g gc t gggggt t aac c c agaag         1740
              gggt t t c t t g c t agaaac c t aat gt t t gt g gac at ac c aa t t gt t gac c a c c aaaaat gt      1800
              gc t ac t gc gt at ac aaagc a gc c c t ac c c a ggagc aaaag t gac t gt t aa c at gc t c t gt       1860
              gc t ggc c t ag ac c gc ggt gg c aaggac agc t gc agaggt g ac agc ggagg ggc at t agt g              1920
              t t t c t agac a at gaaac ac a gagat ggt t t gt gggaggaa t agt t t c c t g gggt t c t at t         1980
              aac t gt gggg ggt c agaac a gt at ggggt c t ac ac gaaag t c ac gaac t a t at t c c c t gg          2040
              at t gagaac a t aat aaat aa t t t c t aat t t gc aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a                             2091
              <210>     13
              <211>     685
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     r at t us
              <400>     13
              Met Ar g Leu Leu I l e Val Leu Gl y Leu Leu Tr p Ser Leu Val Al a Thr
              1                5                      10                   15
              Leu Leu Gl y Ser Ly s Tr p Pr o Gl u Pr o Val Phe Gl y Ar g Leu Val Ser
                           20                      25                     30
              Leu Al a Phe Pr o Gl u Ly s Ty r Gl y As n Hi s Gl n As p Ar g Ser Tr p Thr
                       35                      40                       45
              Leu Thr Al a Pr o Pr o Gl y Phe Ar g Leu Ar g Leu Ty r Phe Thr Hi s Phe
                  50                      55                    60
              As n Leu Gl u Leu Ser Ty r Ar g Cy s Gl u Ty r As p Phe Val Ly s Leu Thr
              65                    70                       75                    80
              Ser Gl y Thr Ly s Val Leu Al a Thr Leu Cy s Gl y Gl n Gl u Ser Thr As p
                                85                   90                      95
              Thr Gl u Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y As n As p Thr Phe Ty r Ser Leu Gl y Pr o Ser
                            100                      105                  110
                                                                    Page 21

                                       MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Ly s Val Thr Phe Hi s Ser As p Ty r Ser As n Gl u Ly s Pr o Phe Thr
                       115                  120                     125
              Gl y Phe Gl u Al a Phe Ty r Al a Al a Gl u As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ar g Thr
                   130                    135                     140
              Ser Leu Gl y As p Ser Val Pr o Cy s As p Hi s Ty r Cy s Hi s As n Ty r Leu
              145                   150                     155                      160
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Gl y Ty r Ty r Cy s Ser Cy s Ar g Val Gl y Ty r I l e Leu Hi s Gl n As n
                                  165                    170                      175
              Ly s Hi s Thr Cy s Ser Al a Leu Cy s Ser Gl y Gl n Val Phe Thr Gl y Ar g
                            180                    185                   190
              Ser Gl y Phe Leu Ser Ser Pr o Gl u Ty r Pr o Gl n Pr o Ty r Pr o Ly s Leu
                       195                  200                      205
              Ser Ser Cy s Al a Ty r As n I l e Ar g Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Phe Ser I l e Thr
                  210                     215                      220
              Leu As p Phe Val Gl u Ser Phe As p Val Gl u Met Hi s Pr o Gl u Al a Gl n
              225                   230                   235                     240
              Cy s Pr o Ty r As p Ser Leu Ly s I l e Gl n Thr As p Ly s Ar g Gl u Ty r Gl y
                                  245                     250                     255
              Pr o Phe Cy s Gl y Ly s Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ar g I l e Gl u Thr As p Ser As n
                            260                    265                      270
              Ly s Val Thr I l e Thr Phe Thr Thr As p Gl u Ser Gl y As n Hi s Thr Gl y
                       275                   280                    285
              Tr p Ly s I l e Hi s Ty r Thr Ser Thr Al a Gl n Pr o Cy s Pr o As p Pr o Thr
                   290                      295                    300
              Al a Pr o Pr o As n Gl y Hi s I l e Ser Pr o Val Gl n Al a Thr Ty r Val Leu
              305                      310                     315                    320
              Ly s As p Ser Phe Ser Val Phe Cy s Ly s Thr Gl y Phe Gl u Leu Leu Gl n
                                325                   330                   335
              Gl y Ser Val Pr o Leu Ly s Ser Phe Thr Al a Val Cy s Gl n Ly s As p Gl y
                           340                   345                    350
              Ser Tr p As p Ar g Pr o I l e Pr o Gl u Cy s Ser I l e I l e As p Cy s Gl y Pr o
                       355                       360                       365
              Pr o As p As p Leu Pr o As n Gl y Hi s Val As p Ty r I l e Thr Gl y Pr o Gl u
                   370                     375                     380
                                                            Page 22

                                      MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Thr Thr Ty r Ly s Al a Val I l e Gl n Ty r Ser Cy s Gl u Gl u Thr Phe
              385                   390                      395                    400
              Ty r Thr Met Ser Ser As n Gl y Ly s Ty r Val Cy s Gl u Al a As p Gl y Phe
                               405                     410                     415
              Tr p Thr Ser Ser Ly s Gl y Gl u Ly s Ser Leu Pr o Val Cy s Ly s Pr o Val
                           420                     425                   430
<removed-apn>
              Cy s Gl y Leu Ser Thr Hi s Thr Ser Gl y Gl y Ar g I l e I l e Gl y Gl y Gl n
                        435                  440                      445
              Pr o Al a Ly s Pr o Gl y As p Phe Pr o Tr p Gl n Val Leu Leu Leu Gl y Gl u
                   450                      455                    460
              Thr Thr Al a Al a Gl y Al a Leu I l e Hi s As p As p Tr p Val Leu Thr Al a
              465                    470                      475                   480
              Al a Hi s Al a Val Ty r Gl y Ly s Thr Gl u Al a Met Ser Ser Leu As p I l e
                                 485                     490                  495
              Ar g Met Gl y I l e Leu Ly s Ar g Leu Ser Leu I l e Ty r Thr Gl n Al a Tr p
                            500                     505                    510
              Pr o Gl u Al a Val Phe I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Ty r Thr Hi s Gl y Al a Gl y Phe
                        515                     520                     525
              As p As n As p I l e Al a Leu I l e Ly s Leu Ly s As n Ly s Val Thr I l e As n
                   530                      535                      540
              Ar g As n I l e Met Pr o I l e Cy s Leu Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl u Al a Al a Ser Leu
              545                      550                      555                     560
              Met Ly s Thr As p Phe Val Gl y Thr Val Al a Gl y Tr p Gl y Leu Thr Gl n
                                565                  570                     575
              Ly s Gl y Phe Leu Al a Ar g As n Leu Met Phe Val As p I l e Pr o I l e Val
                            580                    585                    590
              As p Hi s Gl n Ly s Cy s Al a Thr Al a Ty r Thr Ly s Gl n Pr o Ty r Pr o Gl y
                        595                     600                     605
              Al a Ly s Val Thr Val As n Met Leu Cy s Al a Gl y Leu As p Ar g Gl y Gl y
                   610                   615                    620
              Ly s As p Ser Cy s Ar g Gl y As p Ser Gl y Gl y Al a Leu Val Phe Leu As p
              625                     630                     635                  640
              As n Gl u Thr Gl n Ar g Tr p Phe Val Gl y Gl y I l e Val Ser Tr p Gl y Ser
                                 645                    650                     655
                                                           Page 23

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              I l e As n Cy s Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Gl n Ty r Gl y Val Ty r Thr Ly s Val Thr
                              660                     665                    670
              As n Ty r I l e Pr o Tr p I l e Gl u As n I l e I l e As n As n Phe
                        675                        680                        685
              <210>     14
              <211>     354
              <212>     DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 14
              c aggt c ac c t t gaaggagt c t ggt c c t gt g c t ggt gaaac c c ac agagac c c t c ac gc t g       60
              ac c t gc ac c g t c t c t gggt t c t c ac t c agc aggggt aaaa t gggt gt gag c t ggat c c gt     120
              c agc c c c c ag ggaaggc c c t ggagt ggc t t gc ac ac at t t t t t c gagt ga c gaaaaat c c       180
              t ac aggac at c gc t gaagag c aggc t c ac c at c t c c aagg ac ac c t c c aa aaac c aggt g       240
              gt c c t t ac aa t gac c aac at ggac c c t gt g gac ac agc c a c gt at t ac t g t gc ac ggat a   300
              c gac gt ggag gaat t gac t a c t ggggc c ag ggaac c c t gg t c ac t gt c t c c t c a             354
              <210>     15
              <211>     118
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     15
              Gl n Val Thr Leu Ly s Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o Val Leu Val Ly s Pr o Thr Gl u
              1                5                       10                    15
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Thr Cy s Thr Val Ser Gl y Phe Ser Leu Ser Ar g Gl y
                          20                   25                   30
              Ly s Met Gl y Val Ser Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl y Ly s Al a Leu Gl u
                       35                      40                       45
              Tr p Leu Al a Hi s I l e Phe Ser Ser As p Gl u Ly s Ser Ty r Ar g Thr Ser
                   50                      55                     60
              Leu Ly s Ser Ar g Leu Thr I l e Ser Ly s As p Thr Ser Ly s As n Gl n Val
              65                    70                      75                     80
              Val Leu Thr Met Thr As n Met As p Pr o Val As p Thr Al a Thr Ty r Ty r
                              85                     90                    95
              Cy s Al a Ar g I l e Ar g Ar g Gl y Gl y I l e As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                             100                       105                       110
                                                                   Page 24

                                         MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   16
              <211>   121
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
<removed-apn>
              <400>   16
              Gl n Val Gl n Leu Gl n Gl n Ser Gl y Pr o Gl y Leu Val Ly s Pr o Ser Gl n
              1                 5                       10                     15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cy s Al a I l e Ser Gl y As p Ser Val Ser Ser Thr
                          20                      25                    30
              Ser Al a Al a Tr p As n Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Ser Pr o Ser Ar g Gl y Leu Gl u
                       35                        40                     45
              Tr p Leu Gl y Ar g Thr Ty r Ty r Ar g Ser Ly s Tr p Ty r As n As p Ty r Al a
                   50                     55                      60
              Val Ser Val Ly s Ser Ar g I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p Thr Ser Ly s As n
              65                   70                        75                     80
              Gl n Phe Ser Leu Gl n Leu As n Ser Val Thr Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val
                               85                    90                     95
              Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Ar g As p Pr o Phe Gl y Val Pr o Phe As p I l e Tr p Gl y
                             100                     105                    110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Met Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>   17
              <211>   106
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   17
              Gl n Pr o Val Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Pr o Ser Leu Ser Val Ser Pr o Gl y Gl n
              1                 5                      10                   15
              Thr Al a Ser I l e Thr Cy s Ser Gl y Gl u Ly s Leu Gl y As p Ly s Ty r Al a
                           20                      25                      30
              Ty r Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Pr o Gl y Gl n Ser Pr o Val Leu Val Met Ty r
                        35                       40                     45
                                                           Page 25

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl n As p Ly s Gl n Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o Gl u Ar g Phe Ser Gl y Ser
                   50                       55                       60
              As n Ser Gl y As n Thr Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Ser Gl y Thr Gl n Al a Met
              65                     70                     75                     80
              As p Gl u Al a As p Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Al a Tr p As p Ser Ser Thr Al a Val
                                  85                       90                    95
<removed-apn>
              Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu
                            100                   105
              <210>     18
              <211>     324
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 18
              t c c t at gagc t gat ac agc c ac c c t c ggt g t c agt ggc c c c aggac agac ggc c ac c at t       60
              ac c t gt gc gg gagac aac c t t gggaagaaa c gt gt gc ac t ggt ac c agc a gaggc c aggc             120
              c aggc c c c t g t gt t ggt c at c t at gat gat agc gac c ggc c c t c agggat c c c t gac c ga     180
              t t c t c t gc c t c c aac t c t gg gaac ac ggc c ac c c t gac c a t c ac t agggg c gaagc c ggg   240
              gat gaggc c g ac t at t at t g t c aggt gt gg gac at t gc t a c t gat c at gt ggt c t t c ggc     300
              ggagggac c a agc t c ac c gt c c t a                                                              324
              <210>     19
              <211>     120
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     19
              Ser Ty r Gl u Leu I l e Gl n Pr o Pr o Ser Val Ser Val Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n
              1                 5                        10                    15
              Thr Al a Thr I l e Thr Cy s Al a Gl y As p As n Leu Gl y Ly s Ly s Ar g Val
                           20                       25                      30
              Hi s Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Pr o Val Leu Val I l e Ty r
                        35                       40                      45
              As p As p Ser As p Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o As p Ar g Phe Ser Al a Ser
                   50                      55                       60
              As n Ser Gl y As n Thr Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Thr Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl y
              65                     70                     75                      80
                                                                   Page 26

                                         MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              As p Gl u Al a As p Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Val Tr p As p I l e Al a Thr As p Hi s
                                  85                      90                       95
              Val Val Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Al a Al a Gl y
                          100                     105                  110
              Ser Gl u Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u
                       115                     120
<removed-apn>
              <210>   20
              <211>   262
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   20
              Gl n Val Gl n Leu Gl n Gl n Ser Gl y Pr o Gl y Leu Val Ly s Pr o Ser Gl n
              1                 5                       10                     15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cy s Al a I l e Ser Gl y As p Ser Val Ser Ser Thr
                          20                      25                    30
              Ser Al a Al a Tr p As n Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Ser Pr o Ser Ar g Gl y Leu Gl u
                       35                        40                     45
              Tr p Leu Gl y Ar g Thr Ty r Ty r Ar g Ser Ly s Tr p Ty r As n As p Ty r Al a
                   50                     55                      60
              Val Ser Val Ly s Ser Ar g I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p Thr Ser Ly s As n
              65                   70                        75                     80
              Gl n Phe Ser Leu Gl n Leu As n Ser Val Thr Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val
                               85                    90                     95
              Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Ar g As p Pr o Phe Gl y Val Pr o Phe As p I l e Tr p Gl y
                             100                     105                    110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Met Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ly s Leu Ser Gl y Ser Al a Ser
                        115                 120                  125
              Al a Pr o Ly s Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Gl u Phe Ser Gl u Al a Ar g Val Ser Ty r
                   130                     135                    140
              Gl u Leu I l e Gl n Pr o Pr o Ser Val Ser Val Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n Thr Al a
              145                      150                  155                     160
              Thr I l e Thr Cy s Al a Gl y As p As n Leu Gl y Ly s Ly s Ar g Val Hi s Tr p
                                 165                     170                     175
              Ty r Gl n Gl n Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Pr o Val Leu Val I l e Ty r As p As p
                                                            Page 27

                                         MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                             180                     185                  190
              Ser As p Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o As p Ar g Phe Ser Al a Ser As n Ser
                       195                      200                    205
              Gl y As n Thr Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Thr Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl y As p Gl u
                   210                   215                     220
              Al a As p Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Val Tr p As p I l e Al a Thr As p Hi s Val Val
<removed-apn>
              225                      230                      235                    240
              Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Al a Al a Gl y Ser Gl u
                                 245                  250                     255
              Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u
                            260
              <210>   21
              <211>   245
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   21
              Gl n Val Thr Leu Ly s Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o Val Leu Val Ly s Pr o Thr Gl u
              1                5                       10                    15
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Thr Cy s Thr Val Ser Gl y Phe Ser Leu Ser Ar g Gl y
                          20                   25                   30
              Ly s Met Gl y Val Ser Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl y Ly s Al a Leu Gl u
                       35                      40                       45
              Tr p Leu Al a Hi s I l e Phe Ser Ser As p Gl u Ly s Ser Ty r Ar g Thr Ser
                   50                      55                     60
              Leu Ly s Ser Ar g Leu Thr I l e Ser Ly s As p Thr Ser Ly s As n Gl n Val
              65                    70                      75                     80
              Val Leu Thr Met Thr As n Met As p Pr o Val As p Thr Al a Thr Ty r Ty r
                              85                     90                    95
              Cy s Al a Ar g I l e Ar g Ar g Gl y Gl y I l e As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                             100                       105                       110
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ly s Leu Ser Gl y Ser Al a Ser Al a Pr o Ly s
                      115                  120                   125
              Leu Gl u Gl u Gl y Gl u Phe Ser Gl u Al a Ar g Val Gl n Pr o Val Leu Thr
                  130                     135                    140
                                                            Page 28

                                            MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl n Pr o Pr o Ser Leu Ser Val Ser Pr o Gl y Gl n Thr Al a Ser I l e Thr
              145                    150                   155                     160
              Cy s Ser Gl y Gl u Ly s Leu Gl y As p Ly s Ty r Al a Ty r Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n
                                 165                     170                      175
              Ly s Pr o Gl y Gl n Ser Pr o Val Leu Val Met Ty r Gl n As p Ly s Gl n Ar g
                             180                   185                    190
<removed-apn>
              Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o Gl u Ar g Phe Ser Gl y Ser As n Ser Gl y As n Thr
                       195                       200                   205
              Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Ser Gl y Thr Gl n Al a Met As p Gl u Al a As p Ty r
                   210                   215                    220
              Ty r Cy s Gl n Al a Tr p As p Ser Ser Thr Al a Val Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr
              225                      230                   235                    240
              Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu
                               245
              <210>     22
              <211>     750
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 22
              c aggt ac agc t gc agc agt c aggt c c agga c t ggt gaagc c c t c gc agac c c t c t c ac t c          60
              ac c t gt gc c a t c t c c gggga c agt gt c t c t agc ac c agt g c t gc t t ggaa c t ggat c agg     120
              c agt c c c c at c gagaggc c t t gagt ggc t g ggaaggac at ac t ac aggt c c aagt ggt at              180
              aat gat t at g c agt at c t gt gaaaagt c ga at aac c at c a ac c c agac ac at c c aagaac            240
              c agt t c t c c c t gc agc t gaa c t c t gt gac t c c c gaggac a c ggc t gt gt a t t ac t gt gc a   300
              agagat c c t t t c ggggt ac c t t t t gat at c t ggggc c aag ggac aat ggt c ac c gt c t c t         360
              t c aaagc t t t c agggagt gc at c c gc c c c a aaac t t gaag aaggt gaat t t t c agaagc a            420
              c gc gt at c c t at gagc t gat ac agc c ac c c t c ggt gt c ag t ggc c c c agg ac agac ggc c        480
              ac c at t ac c t gt gc gggaga c aac c t t ggg aagaaac gt g t gc ac t ggt a c c agc agagg            540
              c c aggc c agg c c c c t gt gt t ggt c at c t at gat gat agc g ac c ggc c c t c agggat c c c t      600
              gac c gat t c t c t gc c t c c aa c t c t gggaac ac ggc c ac c c t gac c at c ac t aggggc gaa       660
              gc c ggggat g aggc c gac t a t t at t gt c ag gt gt gggac a t t gc t ac t ga t c at gt ggt c        720
              t t c ggc ggag ggac c aagc t c ac c gt c c t a                                                      750
              <210>     23
              <211>     735
              <212>     DNA
                                                                    Page 29

                                             MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <220>
              <221>     mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>     ( 663) . . ( 663)
              <223>     n i s a, c , g, or t
              <400> 23
<removed-apn>
              c aggt c ac c t t gaaggagt c t ggt c c t gt g c t ggt gaaac c c ac agagac c c t c ac gc t g          60
              ac c t gc ac c g t c t c t gggt t c t c ac t c agc aggggt aaaa t gggt gt gag c t ggat c c gt        120
              c agc c c c c ag ggaaggc c c t ggagt ggc t t gc ac ac at t t t t t c gagt ga c gaaaaat c c          180
              t ac aggac at c gc t gaagag c aggc t c ac c at c t c c aagg ac ac c t c c aa aaac c aggt g          240
              gt c c t t ac aa t gac c aac at ggac c c t gt g gac ac agc c a c gt at t ac t g t gc ac ggat a      300
              c gac gt ggag gaat t gac t a c t ggggc c ag ggaac c c t gg t c ac t gt c t c c t c aaagc t t        360
              t c agggagt g c at c c gc c c c aaaac t t gaa gaaggt gaat t t t c agaagc ac gc gt ac ag             420
              c c agt gc t ga c t c agc c c c c c t c ac t gt c c gt gt c c c c ag gac agac agc c agc at c ac c   480
              t gc t c t ggag agaaat t ggg ggat aaat at gc t t ac t ggt at c agc agaa gc c aggc c ag              540
              t c c c c t gt gt t ggt c at gt a t c aagat aaa c agc ggc c c t c agggat c c c t gagc gat t c       600
              t c t ggc t c c a ac t c t gggaa c ac agc c ac t c t gac c at c a gc gggac c c a ggc t at ggat      660
              gangc t gac t at t ac t gt c a ggc gt gggac agc agc ac t g c ggt at t c gg c ggagggac c             720
              aagc t gac c g t c c t a                                                                            735
              <210>     24
              <211>     125
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     24
              Al a Val Thr Leu As p Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                5                       10                     15
              Al a Leu Ser Leu Val Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser As n
                           20                     25                   30
              Al a Met Gl y Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val
                       35                      40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e As p As p As p Gl y Ser Gl y Thr Ar g Ty r Al a Pr o Al a Val
                   50                        55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Al a Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Gl y Gl n Ser Thr Leu Ar g
              65                      70                       75                    80
                                                                    Page 30

                                         MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Gl n Leu As n As n Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Gl y Thr Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                      90                     95
              Thr Ly s Cy s Al a Ty r Ser Ser Gl y Cy s As p Ty r Gl u Gl y Gl y Ty r I l e
                            100                    105                      110
              As p Al a Tr p Gl y Hi s Gl y Thr Gl u Val I l e Val Ser Ser
                        115                     120                    125
<removed-apn>
              <210>   25
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   25
              Al a Val Thr Leu As p Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                5                       10                     15
              Gl y Leu Ser Leu Val Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              Al a Met Gl y Tr p Met Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Ty r Val
                       35                      40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e Ar g Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Thr Leu Ty r Al a Thr Al a Val
                   50                       55                   60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Al a Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Gl y Gl n Ser Thr Val Ar g
              65                      70                       75                    80
              Leu Gl n Leu As n As n Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Thr Ty r Phe Cy s
                                85                      90                     95
              Thr Ar g Ser Gl y As n Val Gl y As p I l e As p Al a Tr p Gl y Hi s Gl y Thr
                           100                     105                       110
              Gl u Val I l e Val Ser Ser
                       115
              <210>   26
              <211>   128
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   26
              Al a Val Thr Leu As p Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                5                       10                     15
                                                           Page 31

                                         MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Leu Ser Leu Val Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Phe As p Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                    30
              Gl n Met As n Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Phe Val
                       35                        40                       45
              Al a Al a I l e As n Ar g Phe Gl y As n Ser Thr Gl y Hi s Gl y Al a Al a Val
                   50                       55                     60
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Val Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As p Gl y Gl n Ser Thr Val Ar g
              65                     70                       75                    80
              Leu Gl n Leu Ser As n Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Thr Ty r Ty r Cy s
                               85                      90                     95
              Al a Ly s Gl y Val Ty r Gl y Ty r Cy s Gl y Ser Ty r Ser Cy s Cy s Gl y Val
                             100                     105                    110
              As p Thr I l e As p Al a Tr p Gl y Hi s Gl y Thr Gl u Val I l e Val Ser Ser
                       115                       120                    125
              <210>   27
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   27
              Al a Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Al a Ser Val Ser Al a As n Leu Gl y Gl y Thr Val
              1                 5                     10                      15
              Ly s I l e Thr Cy s Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Ty r Ty r Ty r
                             20                      25                     30
              Gl y Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Ser Pr o Gl y Ser Al a Pr o Val Thr Val I l e
                        35                      40                      45
              Ty r As p As n As p Ly s Ar g Pr o Ser As p I l e Pr o Ser Ar g Phe Ser Gl y
                   50                       55                       60
              Ser Leu Ser Gl y Ser Thr As n Thr Leu Thr I l e Thr Gl y Val Ar g Al a
              65                   70                   75                      80
              As p As p Gl u Al a Val Ty r Phe Cy s Gl y Ser Al a As p As n Ser Gl y Al a
                                  85                     90                     95
              Al a Phe Gl y Al a Gl y Thr Thr Leu Thr Val Leu
                            100                   105
              <210>   28
                                                           Page 32

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   28
              Al a Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Al a Ser Val Ser Al a As n Pr o Gl y Gl u Thr Val
              1                 5                     10                       15
<removed-apn>
              Ly s I l e Thr Cy s Ser Gl y Gl y Ty r Ser Gl y Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Ty r Ty r
                             20                      25                      30
              Ty r Gl y Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Al a Pr o Gl y Ser Al a Pr o Val Thr Leu
                        35                       40                      45
              I l e Ty r Ty r As n As n Ly s Ar g Pr o Ser As p I l e Pr o Ser Ar g Phe Ser
                    50                       55                       60
              Gl y Ser Leu Ser Gl y Ser Thr As n Thr Leu Thr I l e Thr Gl y Val Ar g
              65                    70                   75                     80
              Al a As p As p Gl u Al a Val Ty r Phe Cy s Gl y Ser Al a As p As n Ser Gl y
                                  85                     90                      95
              Al a Al a Phe Gl y Al a Gl y Thr Thr Leu Thr Val Leu
                            100                    105
              <210>   29
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   29
              Al a Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Al a Ser Val Ser Al a As n Pr o Gl y Gl u Thr Val
              1                 5                     10                       15
              Ly s I l e Thr Cy s Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Ty r Ty r Ty r
                             20                      25                     30
              Gl y Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Al a Pr o Gl y Ser Al a Pr o Val Thr Leu I l e
                        35                       40                      45
              Ty r Ty r As n As n Ly s Ar g Pr o Ser As p I l e Pr o Ser Ar g Phe Ser Gl y
                   50                       55                       60
              Ser Leu Ser Gl y Ser Thr As n Thr Leu Thr I l e Thr Gl y Val Ar g Al a
              65                   70                   75                      80
              As p As p Gl u Al a Val Ty r Phe Cy s Gl y Ser Al a As p As n Ser Gl y Al a
                                                          Page 33

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                      85                   90                   95
              Al a Phe Gl y Al a Gl y Thr Thr Leu Thr Val Leu
                            100                   105
              <210>   30
              <211>   126
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   30
              Al a Val Thr Leu As p Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                5                       10                     15
              Al a Leu Ser Leu Val Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              Al a Met Hi s Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val
                       35                      40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e Ty r Ly s Ser Gl y Al a Gl y Thr As n Ty r Al a Pr o Al a Val
                   50                       55                      60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Al a Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Gl y Gl n Ser Thr Val Ar g
              65                      70                       75                    80
              Leu Gl n Leu As n As n Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Gl y Thr Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                      90                     95
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Gl y Ser Gl y Cy s Ser Ser Gl y Ty r Ar g Al a Gl u Ty r
                            100                    105                    110
              I l e As p Al a Tr p Gl y Hi s Gl y Thr Gl u Val I l e Val Ser Ser
                         115                      120                    125
              <210>   31
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   31
              Al a Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Al a Ser Val Ser Al a As n Pr o Gl y Gl u Thr Val
              1                 5                     10                       15
              Ly s I l e Thr Cy s Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Ty r Ty r Ty r
                             20                      25                     30
              Gl y Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Al a Pr o Gl y Ser Al a Pr o Val Thr Leu I l e
                                                            Page 34

                                         MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                       35                        40                   45
              Ty r Ty r As n As n Ly s Ar g Pr o Ser As p I l e Pr o Ser Ar g Phe Ser Gl y
                   50                       55                       60
              Ser Leu Ser Gl y Ser Thr As n Thr Leu Thr I l e Thr Gl y Val Ar g Al a
              65                   70                   75                      80
              As p As p Gl u Al a Val Ty r Phe Cy s Gl y Ser Al a As p As n Ser Gl y Al a
<removed-apn>
                                  85                     90                     95
              Al a Phe Gl y Al a Gl y Thr Thr Leu Thr Val Leu
                            100                   105
              <210>   32
              <211>   126
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   32
              Al a Val Thr Leu As p Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Gl n Thr Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                5                       10                     15
              Al a Leu Ser Leu Val Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              As p Met Val Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Phe Val
                       35                     40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e Ser Ar g As n As p Gl y Ar g Ty r Thr Gl u Ty r Gl y Ser Al a
                   50                       55                      60
              Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Al a Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Gl y Gl n Ser Thr Val
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Ar g Leu Gl n Leu As n As n Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Thr Ty r Ty r
                                85                      90                     95
              Cy s Al a Ar g As p Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Al a Ty r Tr p Phe As p Al a Gl y Gl n
                             100                     105                     110
              I l e As p Al a Tr p Gl y Hi s Gl y Thr Gl u Val I l e Val Ser Ser
                         115                      120                    125
              <210>   33
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
                                                           Page 35

                                         MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>   33
              Al a Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Al a Ser Val Ser Al a As n Pr o Gl y Gl u Thr Val
              1                 5                     10                       15
              Ly s I l e Thr Cy s Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Ty r Ty r Ty r
                             20                      25                     30
              Gl y Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Al a Pr o Gl y Ser Al a Pr o Val Thr Leu I l e
<removed-apn>
                        35                       40                      45
              Ty r Ty r As n As n Ly s Ar g Pr o Ser As p I l e Pr o Ser Ar g Phe Ser Gl y
                   50                       55                       60
              Ser Leu Ser Gl y Ser Thr As n Thr Leu Thr I l e Thr Gl y Val Ar g Al a
              65                   70                   75                      80
              As p As p Gl u Al a Val Ty r Phe Cy s Gl y Ser Al a As p As n Ser Gl y Al a
                                  85                     90                     95
              Al a Phe Gl y Al a Gl y Thr Thr Leu Thr Val Leu
                            100                   105
              <210>   34
              <211>   36
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   34
              Leu Gl u Val Thr Cy s Gl u Pr o Gl y Thr Thr Phe Ly s As p Ly s Cy s As n
              1                5                       10                     15
              Thr Cy s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ser As p Gl y Ly s Ser Al a Phe Cy s Thr Ar g Ly s
                            20                      25                     30
              Leu Cy s Ty r Gl n
                       35
              <210>   35
              <211>   36
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt het i c
              <400>   35
              Leu Gl u Val Thr Cy s Gl u Pr o Gl y Thr Thr Phe Ly s As p Ly s Cy s As n
              1                5                       10                     15
              Thr Cy s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ser As p Gl y Ly s Ser Al a Val Cy s Thr Ly s Leu
                                                          Page 36

                                       MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                    25                   30
              Tr p Cy s As n Gl n
                        35
              <210>   36
              <211>   227
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   homo s api ens
<removed-apn>
              <400>   36
              As p Ly s Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y
              1                  5                       10                      15
              Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met
                            20                   25                       30
              I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s
                        35                     40                   45
              Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val
                   50                      55                     60
              Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y
                               85                  90                      95
              Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e
                             100                    105                     110
              Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val
                        115                     120                      125
              Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser
                   130                   135                    140
              Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u
              145                  150                     155                     160
              Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o
                                 165                      170                    175
              Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val
                           180                   185                   190
              As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met
                        195                     200                   205
              Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                   210                     215                     220
                                                          Page 37

                                             MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Pr o Gl y Ly s
              225
              <210>     37
              <211>     12
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     37
              Gl y Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Ser Ser Ser Ar g Ser
              1                  5                     10
              <210>     38
              <211>     10
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     38
              Gl y Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Ser Ser Ser
              1                  5                     10
              <210>     39
              <211>     888
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 39
              at gt ac agga t gc aac t c c t gt c t t gc at t gc ac t aagt c t t gc ac t t gt c ac gaat t c g          60
              c t c gaggt ga c at gt gaac c c ggt ac gac g t t t aaggat a agt gc aac ac at gt aggt gc                 120
              ggt agc gac g gc aaat c agc gt t c t gt ac c c ggaaat t gt gc t ac c aggg aac t ggagga                  180
              gggt c ggggt c c t c gt c aag at c t gac aaa ac t c ac ac at gc c c ac c gt g c c c agc ac c t          240
              gaac t c c t gg ggggac c gt c agt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c aa aac c c aagga c ac c c t c at g      300
              at c t c c c gga c c c c t gaggt c ac at gc gt g gt ggt ggac g t gagc c ac ga agac c c t gag            360
              gt c aagt t c a ac t ggt ac gt ggac ggc gt g gaggt gc at a at gc c aagac aaagc c gc gg                  420
              gaggagc agt ac aac agc ac gt ac c gt gt g gt c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t gc ac c aggac               480
              t ggc t gaat g gc aaggagt a c aagt gc aag gt c t c c aac a aagc c c t c c c agc c c c c at c            540
              gagaaaac c a t c t c c aaagc c aaagggc ag c c c c gagaac c ac aggt gt a c ac c c t gc c c               600
              c c at c c c ggg aggagat gac c aagaac c ag gt c agc c t ga c c t gc c t ggt c aaaggc t t c              660
              t at c c c agc g ac at c gc c gt ggagt gggag agc aat gggc agc c ggagaa c aac t ac aag                   720
              ac c ac gc c t c c c gt gc t gga c t c c gac ggc t c c t t c t t c c t c t ac agc aa gc t c ac c gt g   780
                                                                      Page 38

                                           MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              gac aagagc a ggt ggc agc a ggggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc a c gaggc t c t g   840
              c ac aac c ac t ac ac gc agaa gagc c t c t c c c t gt c t c c gg gt aaat ga                 888
              <210>     40
              <211>     275
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     40
              Leu Gl u Val Thr Cy s Gl u Pr o Gl y Thr Thr Phe Ly s As p Ly s Cy s As n
              1                5                       10                     15
              Thr Cy s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ser As p Gl y Ly s Ser Al a Phe Cy s Thr Ar g Ly s
                            20                      25                     30
              Leu Cy s Ty r Gl n Gl y Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Ser Ser Ser Ar g Ser
                       35                      40                     45
              As p Ly s Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met
              65                    70                     75                     80
              I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s
                                 85                     90                   95
              Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val
                             100                    105                     110
              Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r
                        115                     120                      125
              Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y
                   130                 135                   140
              Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e
              145                      150                    155                     160
              Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val
                                  165                     170                      175
              Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser
                           180                     185                    190
              Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u
                      195                    200                    205
                                                                  Page 39

                                      MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o
                   210                     215                      220
              Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val
              225                   230                  235                   240
              As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met
                                 245                      250                  255
<removed-apn>
              Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                             260                     265                   270
              Pr o Gl y Ly s
                        275
              <210>     41
              <211>     888
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 41
              at gt ac agga t gc aac t c c t gt c t t gc at t gc ac t aagt c t t gc ac t t gt c ac gaat t c g          60
              t t ggaagt ga c gt gt gagc c c ggaac gac a t t c aaagac a agt gc aat ac t t gt c ggt gc                 120
              ggt t c agat g ggaaat c ggc ggt c t gc ac a aagc t c t ggt gt aac c aggg c ac c ggt gga                 180
              gggt c gggat c c agc t c aag at c t gac aaa ac t c ac ac at gc c c ac c gt g c c c agc ac c t           240
              gaac t c c t gg ggggac c gt c agt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c aa aac c c aagga c ac c c t c at g      300
              at c t c c c gga c c c c t gaggt c ac at gc gt g gt ggt ggac g t gagc c ac ga agac c c t gag            360
              gt c aagt t c a ac t ggt ac gt ggac ggc gt g gaggt gc at a at gc c aagac aaagc c gc gg                  420
              gaggagc agt ac aac agc ac gt ac c gt gt g gt c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t gc ac c aggac               480
              t ggc t gaat g gc aaggagt a c aagt gc aag gt c t c c aac a aagc c c t c c c agc c c c c at c            540
              gagaaaac c a t c t c c aaagc c aaagggc ag c c c c gagaac c ac aggt gt a c ac c c t gc c c               600
              c c at c c c ggg aggagat gac c aagaac c ag gt c agc c t ga c c t gc c t ggt c aaaggc t t c              660
              t at c c c agc g ac at c gc c gt ggagt gggag agc aat gggc agc c ggagaa c aac t ac aag                   720
              ac c ac gc c t c c c gt gc t gga c t c c gac ggc t c c t t c t t c c t c t ac agc aa gc t c ac c gt g   780
              gac aagagc a ggt ggc agc a ggggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc a c gaggc t c t g               840
              c ac aac c ac t ac ac gc agaa gagc c t c t c c c t gt c t c c gg gt aaat ga                             888
              <210>     42
              <211>     275
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
                                                                      Page 40

                                      MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>   42
              Leu Gl u Val Thr Cy s Gl u Pr o Gl y Thr Thr Phe Ly s As p Ly s Cy s As n
              1                5                       10                     15
              Thr Cy s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ser As p Gl y Ly s Ser Al a Val Cy s Thr Ly s Leu
                            20                      25                     30
              Tr p Cy s As n Gl n Gl y Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Ser Ser Ser Ar g Ser
                        35                      40                     45
<removed-apn>
              As p Ly s Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met
              65                    70                     75                     80
              I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s
                                 85                     90                   95
              Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val
                             100                    105                     110
              Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r
                        115                     120                      125
              Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y
                   130                 135                   140
              Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e
              145                      150                    155                     160
              Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val
                                  165                     170                      175
              Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser
                           180                     185                    190
              Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u
                      195                    200                    205
              Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o
                   210                     215                      220
              Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val
              225                   230                  235                   240
              As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met
                                 245                      250                  255
              Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                             260                     265                   270
                                                          Page 41

                               MP_1_0146_PCT_Sequenc e_20130327_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Pr o Gl y Ly s
                        275
<removed-apn>
                                                 Page 42

