   ABSTRACT
   In a system for preparing a beverage including a capsule comprising a flange-like
   rim and a sealing protrusion spaced from the lateral wall the capsule and
 5 extending outwardly of said flange rim, and a brewing device comprising a
   receptacle moveable with respect to a receiving plate to provide a closed chamber
   for housing at least part of the capsule, the protrusion of the capsule has at least
   one side, preferably the internal side, that is inclined by an angle a within the
   range of 80 to 40 degrees with respect to the plane of said flange rim to have the
10 protrusion contacting the external portion of the edge of said receptacle at least at
   one location selected from the top and the side of the protrusion.

         1/10
PRIOR ART
    Fig. 1
   Fig. 2

         "CAPSULE AND BREWING SYSTEM WITH ADAPTABLE SEALING
                                         ELEMENT"
   Technical field
 5 The present invention relates to a capsule and a brewing system with an adaptable
   sealing element. More particularly, the invention relates to a single use, i.e.
   disposable, capsule, or cartridge, for preparing beverage, such as coffee, from a dose
   of one or more products contained by the capsule, and to a beverage production
   system comprising a beverage production device (brewing device) for interacting
10 with the capsule. With the wording adaptable it is meant that the sealing element is
   suitable to provide a sealing effect with different models of brewing devices.
   Background of the invention
   Beverage capsules, especially disposable capsule for preparing coffee, have been
   known from the 1930's. Beverage capsules comprise a container portion that houses
15 a dose of at least one extractable or reconstitutable product, generally ground coffee,
   but also tea herbal extracts, instant, e.g. powdered, drinks and liquid concentrates.
   The capsules also comprise a portion that interacts with a brewing device to prepare
   the required beverage. The typical brewing device comprises water heating means
   (e.g. a boiler), an enclosing member, or receptacle, intended to cooperate with the
20 capsule to define a preparation chamber and a pump or similar means so that the
   brewing liquid, preferably hot water under pressure, can be supplied to the capsule
   for the extraction or reconstitution of the beverage from the dose of product
   contained therein.
   Usually, the brewing device includes a first part with a receptacle for housing at least
25 part of the capsule and a second part that cooperates with the first part in the brewing
   of the beverage from the capsule, the first and/or second part are mobile to each other
   and the receptacle has one edge, usually positioned in the lower or upper terminal
   part of the second part, that enters into contact with the sealing element of the
   capsule to compress it against the second part of the brewing device for providing a
30 seal tight engagement with the capsule during the beverage preparation process.
                                                1

   In a known beverage preparation process a capsule is fed into the receptacle of the
   brewing device and is injected with the brewing liquid, typically hot water. The
   injected hot water passes through it and extracts the beverage from the ingredient
   enclosed therein. The beverage exits the capsule to reach a beverage collector and
 5 finally a cup or a container.
   The receptacle encloses at least part of the capsule and cooperates with it and with
   the second part in a seal tight engagement in order to direct the hot water into the
   capsule to extract the beverage with no or with limited leakage. Leakage of the
   brewing liquid may negatively affect the extraction process of the beverage, and
10 jeopardize taste and quality of the beverage.
   A known type of capsule has a substantially frusto-conical body and a rim flange
   portion extending from one of the two bases of the capsule. The brewing device
   comprises means to compress the receptacle against the flange so as to reach the
   required sealing during the brewing step. There are known capsules provided with a
15 flange that is located in correspondence of the side of the capsule where the beverage
   outlet is located. The beverage leaves the capsule from the base where the flange is
   located. A sealing between the flange and the receptacle is requested to avoid water
   leaking from the receptacle.
   In known brewing devices the seal tight engagement between the capsule and the
20 receptacle is generally obtained by exerting a pressure on the rim flange; in other
   words, the receptacle which is cup-shaped in order to enclose the capsule, is pressed
   against the flange-like rim of the capsule, i.e. a rim extending from the lateral surface
   of the capsule, along its perimeter and against a receiving plate where means for
   piercing the outlet wall of the capsule are located. The flange is thus compressed
25 between receptacle and receiving plate of the said second part: sealing is required
   between the parts.
   The problem exists of ensuring a seal tight engagement between the capsule,
   especially the capsule flange, and the receptacle of the brewing device. In fact, a leak
   of the brewing liquid outside the capsule can reduce the pressure inside the capsule
30 and therefore reduce the extraction of the coffee flavours; in addition, water
   discharged to the drip-tray of the dispensing machine or even fed to the cup will be
                                               2

   unpleasant to see. Any water that reaches the cup because of an inferior sealing
   element will dilute the beverage extracted from the capsule, delivering a drink with
   lesser organoleptic characteristics and inferior taste.
   Additionally, there is the problem of having a capsule that can be used with different
 5 types of known brewing machines: often one type of capsule cannot work, or works
   with difficulty, with different models of brewing machines, even if they are based on
   the same technology. This is because in different types of machines, due to imprecise
   engineering or due to careful evaluation of the side effects of deliberate engineering
   choices, for instance the length of the movement of the first and second parts is not
10 exactly identical and therefore the sealing element may result, when the two parts are
   closed together and the flange is compressed, to be too big in one machine (causing
   difficulty in closing the machine) or too small for the machine (causing a leakage of
   water).
   WO 2009/115474 discloses a brewing device where the pressing portion of the
15 receptacle, i.e. the part of the receptacle which is brought into contact with the
   capsule, has two circular crowns (inner edge and outer edge) connected by an
   annular recess, each edge is provided with irregularities, indentations, and/or gaps
   (see fig. 2A). According to WO'474, the gaps are obtained in the edges of the
   receptacle in order to provide it with a flow directing means to control leakage if the
20 device is operated without inserting a capsule. Nevertheless, and perhaps un
   surprisingly so, using this device with certain capsules compatible with such
   receptacle, results in water leaks from the receptacle into the cup where coffee is
   being collected, providing a negative effect both visually and as far as taste is
   concerned, not to mention the drawback of rapidly filling with excess water the drip
25 tray container.
   Also, in some machines repeated use may result in wear and tear causing slight
   changes of the travel distance or misalignment of the first and second portions of the
   machine resulting, with time, in possible leakages of water from the brewing
   chamber.
30 EP1654966 discloses capsules provided with a resilient material, acting as a gasket
   or sealing member, which is added in correspondence of the flange-like rim, in order
                                               3

   to engage the pressing portion of the receptacle and to interact with the receptacle to
   provide the desired seal tight engagement. This material is added to the capsule, with
   unwanted increased cost of the capsule.
   Capsules are already known having one or more projecting elements, made of the
 5 same material of the capsule, and extending from its external surface, and in
   particular form its flange-like rim, in order to provide the sealing engagement with
   the receptacle, when compressed.
   W02010/084475, in the name of Ethical Coffee Company, describes several
   embodiments of a capsule having projecting elements on its external surface, and in
10 particular on the upper surface of the flange-like rim. The projecting element can be
   one or more.
   W02010/137946, to Sara Lee, discloses a capsule having at least one projection for
   providing a sealing engagement with the receptacle, located on the flange. If the
   projection is integral with the flange, it comprises a plurality of elements, so that
15 sealing is ensured; in one embodiment, shown in fig. 1, an additional element, higher
   than the others, is present and is arranged to abut the outer surface of the receptacle
   when the receptacle is insisting on the remaining, shorter, elements.
   EP 2289820 teaches to use a phirality of "lips" protruding substantially vertically
   from the flange rim, some of the lips are compressed by the edge of the receptacle
20 and some are not; in particular, the outer or inner lips could be not compressed to
   provide additional sealing under the pressure exerted by the water. Fig. 2 shows this
   embodiment.
   The above mentioned embodiments do not solve the problem of having a sealing
   element completely adaptable to different machines.
25 It is an aim of the present invention to solve the above problems and to provide a
   capsule that can be used with different shapes and profiles of the pressing portion of
   the receptacle, and with different closing mechanisms without affecting negatively
   the operation of the dispensing unit i.e. creating no problem while closing the
   machine or inserting/extracting the capsule into/fi-om the receptacle. Another aim of
30 the present invention is to provide a capsule which is easy to produce and wherein
   the sealing element is made integral with the capsule body, without the need of
                                              4

   adding resilient sealing material on its external surface for providing sealing
   compensation for the irregularities provided on the receptacle due to wear and tear,
   imprecise engineering or altogether different closing mechanisms.
   Summary of the invention
 5 These and other aims are achieved by the system for the preparation of a beverage
   according to claim 1.
   The present beverage production system comprises a brewing device having a
   receptacle for enclosing at least part of the capsule, and a capsule which is provided
   with a lateral wall, an upper wall and a lower wall forming a hollow body where said
10 product is contained. The capsule is made in thermoplastic materials, e.g polymers
   and/or copolymers of polypropylene or polyethylene.
   The brewing device comprises two portions that are movable one with respect to the
   other: one is the above mentioned receptacle, the other is a receiving plate onto
   which the capsule is pressed during the brewing step, in a way known in the art (e.g.
15 from the previously mentioned prior art). The capsule further comprises a flange-like
   rim laterally extending from the capsule and at least one sealing element in the form
   of a protrusion or projection extending from the flange-like rim, for providing a seal
   tight engagement with the pressing portion (or pressing edge) of the receptacle when
   the beverage production device is in use, i.e. when the receptacle is moved toward
20 the flange rim of the capsule to press it against the receiving flange. Thus, the
   protruding portion is extending from the flange-like rim towards the receptacle, i.e.
   towards the inlet wall of the capsule; this direction will be referred to as "upwards".
   The expression "protrusion" is used herein to indicate a sealing element protruding
   from the flange-like rim of the capsule, in other words the sealing protrusion forms a
25 portion having an increased thickness of the flange-like rim with respect to a portion
   of the flange-like rim outside the sealing protrusion. In particular, the sealing
   protrusion forms a portion of increased thickness of the flange-like rim with respect
   to the thickness of the portion of the flange-like rim adjacent to the lateral wall of the
   capsule. As previously mentioned, the sealing protrusion is spaced from the lateral
30 wall of the capsule so that the edge (or part of the receptacle's edge in case there are
                                                5

   two crowns) of the receptacle can be housed between lateral wall and the sealing
   protrusion
   According to an aspect of the present invention the sealing protrusion, forming a
   thicker portion of the flange, is extending towards the peripheral- edge (peripheral
 5 end) of the flange-like rim. The capsule also comprises a lid that forms the outlet
   wall of the capsule and that is in part attached to the flange rim of the capsule body.
   The lid is typically selected from a plastic lid and a foil element, but could be made
   of other materials; a typical foil element is comprising aluminium layer(s) coupled
   with plastic layers to provide flexibility and gas barrier properties, but other materials
10 may be used, such plastic layer(s), usually tri-laminates including an oxygen-barrier,
   foil or layer(s) of an appropriate bio-material, or again a foil adequately pre
   punctured in order to be used in machines that do not include opening means for the
   water outlet of the capsule, all of which readily available to the skilled in the art.
   In another embodiment, the lid, preferably made of thermoplastic material, can also
15 be provided with a plurality of holes for passage of the beverage.
   In particular in the case of a plastic lid, flange and lid wall are welded together at a
   location that is between the edge of the flange rim and the sealing element. When the
   lid is made of a foil member, the foil can also be welded to a corresponding portion
   of the flange, usually between sealing element and lateral wall of the capsule. An
20 example of a preferred embodiment of plastic lid with self-perforating outlets is
   disclosed in co-pending EP application EP 06821023.6.
   According to the invention, the protrusion of the capsule has at least one side,
   preferably the internal side, that is inclined by an angle a (Fig. 4) with respect to the
   plane of the flange rim; the angle a is the angle internal to the protrusion, i.e. the
25 angle looking to the edge of the flange. The value of angle a (i.e. the inclination of
   the internal side of the protrusion), is within the range of 80 to 40 degrees. In
   addition to this value, the position (and possibly also the height) of the protrusion are
   arranged to have the protrusion contact the external portion of the edge of the
   receptacle of the brewing machine at least at one location selected from the top and
30 the internal side of the protrusion, or both of them. With both of them it is meant that
   in a portion of the protrusion the external portion of the edge of the receptacle is
                                                 6

    contacting the top of the protrusion and in another portion of the protrusion, the edge
   is contacting the side of the protrusion. This compensate misalignments of the
    capsule in the brewing device.
   It has to be noted that the inclination angle a of said at least one side of the sealing
 5 protrusion is measured, as shown in the figures, between said inclined side and the
   plane passing through the upper surface of the flange-like rim outside said sealing
   protrusion. In other words, the inclination angle a is measured from the surface
   (plane) of the flange-like rim outside said at least one sealing protrusion. As shown
   in the figures, the inclination angle a is preferably measured from the upper surface
10 (plane) of the flange-like rim portion adjacent to the lateral wall of the capsule.
   According to an aspect of the invention, in the closed condition or in the brewing
   step, the edge of said receptacle is contacting both the protrusion extending from the
   flange-like rim of the capsule and the lateral wall of the capsule. By reaching this
   position a good seal engagement between the capsule and the brewing device can be
15 obtained.
   Moreover, according to another possible embodiment, in the closed condition or in
   the brewing step the edge of the receptacle is contacting the protrusion, and in
   particular at least a point of its inclined side, the lateral wall of the capsule and at
   least a portion of the flange-like rim of the capsule comprised between the lateral
20 wall and the inclined side of the protrusion. The contact between the edge of the
   receptacle and three different surfaces of the capsule allows to increase the sealing
   effect, thus avoiding any leakage of the brewing liquid injected into the capsule.
   According to an aspect of the present invention, in the closed position, or at the start
   of the brewing step, the edge of the receptacle is initially contacting the sealing
25 protrusion, and then the pressure and temperature conditions determine the
   movement of the contact point between the edge of the brewing device with the
   sealing protrusion during the beverage preparation. It has to be noted that in all the
   above mentioned closed conditions, the top and/or the inclined side of the protrusion
   is contacted by the external portion of the edge of the receptacle, i.e. the portion of
30 the edge facing away from the lateral wall of the capsule.
                                               7

   It has to be noted that the receptacle of the brewing device could be provided with
    different shapes. As shown in the left side of figure 3, the receptacle can be also
   provided with two or more crowns (edges) 10 and 19. Also in these cases an external
   portion (1Oa) of one of the edges, preferably the external portion of the internal edge
 5  10, of said receptacle contacts the sealing protrusion in at least one location selected
   from the top and the side of the protrusion, preferably the side of the protrusion. In
   the following description reference 10 is used to identify an edge of the receptacle
   that can be either the single edge visible in fig. 3 on the right side or the internal edge
   of the double-crown receptacle (comprising edge 19 and edge 10) shown in fig. 3 on
10 the left side. In general, the portion of the edge facing away from the lateral wall (i.e.
   the external portion of the edge - internal or external in case of two or more crowns)
   is pressed against the inclined side of the sealing protrusion. The invention also
   relates to a capsule for preparing beverages according to claim 24. The capsule is
   comprising a hollow body including a lateral wall, an inlet wall, a flange-like rim and
15 one protrusion extending outwardly of said flange rim; the protrusion is spaced from
   the lateral wall of the capsule and has an internal side (i.e. a side facing the lateral
   wall of the capsule) that is inclined by an angle a with respect to the plane of the
   flange rim, the angle a is within the range of 80 to 40 degrees.
   The inclination of the side of the sealing protrusion allows to obtain an effective seal
20 tight engagement with the receptacle of the brewing device and at the same time to
   reduce the force that has to be applied in order to close the capsule inside said
   receptacle. In particular, an inclination angle greater than 80 degrees cannot be
   effectively contacted by the receptacle because the inclined side of the sealing
   protrusion is too "vertical". On the other hand an inclination angle of less than 40
25 degrees is not able to provide an effective barrier to the brewing liquid when
   contacted by the receptacle edge.
   According to an aspect of the present invention the inclination angle a is comprised
   in the range 80 to 60 degrees, preferably 75 to 60 degrees, and more preferably 70 to
   65 degrees. An inclination angle comprised in the preferred range 75 to 60 degrees,
30 is particular advantageous because it allows an effective seal-tight contact with the
   receptacle of the brewing device and at the same time do not need high compression
                                                 8

   forces to be applied in order to enclose the capsule inside the receptacle during the
   brewing preparation process. Additionally, the claimed range 75 to 60 results in the
   adaptability of the capsule sealing system to a vast majority of brewing devices,
   operating with a receptacle that encloses the capsule and compresses the flange rim
 5 of the capsule to obtain a sealing effect during the brewing process. A most preferred
   range is 70 to 65 degrees, wherein the inventions advantages are most evident.
   Preferred embodiments are listed in the depending claims. According to one
   exemplary embodiment the internal side of the protrusion is irregular or curved; in
   this embodiment, the inclination of the side, and angle a, are identified by a plane
10 that extends from top to base of the internal side, as shown in fig. 6.. According to
   another aspect, top of the protrusion is at least in part plastically deformable and,
   when deformed by the device's receptacle, the height of said protrusion can be
   reduced by 20-30 %.
   According to an exemplary embodiment, the protrusion is in the shape of a triangle
15 wherein the angle   P of the top vertices of said triangle(s) is in the range of 10 to 60
   degrees, preferably 10 to 44 or 45, more preferably 10 to 40 degrees and most
   preferably 15 to 35 degrees; when the protrusion is an isosceles triangle, angle a is
   preferably in the range of 60 to 45 degrees. Other possible triangles are selected from
   rectangled and scalene triangles. The combination of the above values provides that
20 the top and/or the inclined side of the protrusion is deformable to compensate
   different travel paths of the receptacles in different brewing devices. Thus, a brewing
   device of the invention's system can be selected from a plurality of brewing devices
   having different receptacles: the protrusion from the capsule flange is located and is
   shaped so as to be compressed by each of said receptacles when used with each of
25 the devices.
   According to an aspect of the present invention, the sealing protrusion has an
   inclined side facing the lateral wall of the capsule (i.e. an internal inclined side) as
   above discussed and forms at least one portion of increased thickness of said flange
   like rim. In an exemplary embodiment said portion of increased thickness is
30 extending from said at least one side of the protrusion towards the peripheral edge of
   the flange-like rim.
                                                9

   The sealing protrusion forming an increased thickness of the flange-like rim portion
   of the capsule may extend for the entire space between the inclined side and the
   peripheral edge of the flange, or the thicker portion formed by the sealing protrusion
   can represent only part of the flange-like rim between the inclined side of the sealing
 5 protrusion and the peripheral edge of the flange-like rim.
   According to an aspect of the present invention, the sealing protrusion is arranged
   spaced from the lateral surface of the capsule, and the sealing protrusion forms an
   increased portion of the flange-like rim with respect to the portion of the flange like
   rim adjacent to the lateral wall of the capsule. According to an aspect of the present
10 invention, the portion of increased thickness of the flange-like rim comprises a flat
   surface extending from said inclined side to the edge of said flange-like rim,
   Preferably the flat surface of the thicker portion is extending from the top of the
   inclined side of the sealing protrusion.
   It has to be noted that, according to a possible embodiment, if the protrusion is not in
15 the shape of a complete triangle and it is provided with a flat surface extending from
   the inclined side of the protrusion towards the edge of the flange-like rim, angle  P of
   the top vertices of the protrusion, i.e. between the inclined side and the substantially
   flat surface extending from the inclined side, is greater than 60 degrees, preferably
   greater than 90 degrees and most preferably greater than 100 degrees.
20 According to an aspect of the present invention, the capsule comprises at least one
   cavity that is located below the sealing protrusion and/or below the flange-like rim.
   According to another aspect of the invention, the at least one cavity is arranged on
   the surface of the flange-like rim facing away from the inlet wall of the capsule.
   The edge of the flange-like rim can be substantially L-shaped if viewed in a cross
25 sectional view. Preferably the end portion of the L-shaped edge is directed away
   from the inlet wall of the capsule. Therefore, the L-shaped edge of the flange-like
   rim forms a cavity arranged on the lower surface of the flange-like rim. In an
   exemplary embodiment as shown in figures 12 and 12B, the L-shaped portion of the
   flange is shorter than the total height of the flange 4, i.e. the lower end of the L
30 portion of the flange stops at a distance frorn the plane of the lower side of the
                                               10

   flange; lower side of the flange means the side of the flange facing away from the
   inlet wall for the water.
   According to another aspect of the invention, a cavity is located between flange and
   lid of the capsule, in correspondence to the sealing protrusion to increase its sealing
 5 performance upon compression.
   According to another aspect of the invention, the capsule comprises radially
   extending sealing elements, or ridges, that are located on the flange of the capsule
   and protrude from it. In an exemplary embodiment, said radially arranged elements
   extend from the lateral wall of the capsule and the sealing protrusion that is
10 circumferential to the capsule lateral wall.
   It is therefore another object of the invention a capsule that comprises a plurality of
   sealing elements that are protruding from the capsule flange rim and that extend
   radially with respect to the axis of the capsule. With the use of suitable radial sealing
   elements, the presence of the sealing protrusion could be no longer required.
15 The combination of the above mentioned single aspects is hereby disclosed by
   referring to it and said combination is within the scope of the invention.
   The invention provides several advantages with respect to the prior art. As above
   mentioned, the capsule can be used with different brewing devices and give with all
   of them a very good sealing between the pressing edge of the receptacle and the
20 flange; the sealing is effective from the first moments of the brewing process. The
   capsule of the invention is also compensating the possible small changes of the
   length of the path of the receptacle (and thus of the compression force required to
   close the brewing device) or misalignements that may occur with time within the
   same device.
25 The above advantages apply both to systems including sealed capsules and devices
   that have a perforating element for injecting water in the capsule and to systems
   including open capsules and devices that do not have blades or other perforating
   devices. Similarly, the sealing advantages apply to capsules having a rigid lid and to
   capsules having a lid made of a foil or a membrane. Moreover, they apply to capsules
30 formed by a plastic body made out of injection-moulding technology, as well as to
   capsules made out of stamping or thermo-forming process. The latter process may
                                               11

   produce a protrusion with a smoother edge, and - underneath the protrusion - the
   opposite face of the flange may bear a concavity corresponding to protrusion,
   although the effect will be the same.
   These and other advantages will be discussed in greater detail with reference to the
 5 enclosed drawings, that are provided only by way of example and should not be
   construed as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings:
       - Fig. 1, Fig. 2 and Fig. 2A are exemplary embodiments of the prior art;
       - Fig. 3 is a schematic cross section of an exemplary embodiment of the system;
       - Fig. 4 is an enlarged sectional view of an exemplary sealing element according
10 to the invention;
       - Fig. 5 and 6 are sectional views of other exemplary embodiments of the sealing
   element;
       - Fig. 7A and 7B show two possible positions of the receptacle of the brewing
   device with respect of the sealing protrusion of the invention;
15     - Fig. 8 and 9 are two cross sections showing another embodiment of the
   invention and the interaction of pressing portion of the receptacle and sealing
   protrusion;
       - Fig. 10 and 11 show another possible embodiment of the invention;
       - Fig. 12, 12A and 12B are enlarged sectional views of other possible
20 embodiments of the sealing protrusion of the capsule according to the invention.
   With initial reference to figures 1 - 2A, these figures refer to the prior art and
   exemplify how the system is working only if the position and the dimensions of the
   components of the system are within precise ranges. Fig. 2A is exemplary of the
   difficulty in obtaining a good sealing of the capsule on the flange in some
25 commercially available brewing devices using that type of receptacle. In this
   embodiment, the receptacle is said to have a pressing portion formed by two circular
   crowns (inner edge and outer edge) connected by an annular recess, each edge is
   provided with irregularities, indentations, and/or gaps.
   Figure 3 shows a combination of capsule and part of the brewing device according to
30 the invention. More in detail, the system for preparing a beverage comprises a
   capsule 1 and a brewing device. The capsule is comprising a hollow body 6 including
                                                12

   a lateral wall 2, an inlet wall 3, a flange-like rim 4 and a protrusion 5 extending
   outwardly of said flange rim. In general, protrusion 5 extends along a circumference
   that has a center corresponding to the axis of the capsule (or rotationally
   symmetrical); the lower or bottom part of the lateral wall 2 is preferably curved to
 5 help centering the capsule in the receptacle.
   The brewing device 20 comprises a receptacle 21 movable with respect to a receiving
   plate 22 of the brewing device from an open position to a closed position for housing
   at least part of the capsule hollow body in the enclosing receptacle 21 and to provide
   a closed chamber around the capsule when heated and pressurized water is fed to the
10 interior of said capsule during the brewing step. Plate 22 is provided with simply one
   or a few or even a plurality of holes 14 to let the beverage flow to its final container.
   The receptacle 21 is provided with a pressing edge 10 having an external portion 10a,
   i.e. the external portion facing away from the lateral wall 2 of the capsule. The
   receptacle shown on the left side of fig. 3 is of the type having a double crown,
15 similarly to the one shown in fig. 2A, and has two circular crowns (inner edge 10 and
   outer edge 19) connected by an annular recess 18, each edge is provided with
   irregularities, indentations, and/or gaps. Outer edge 19 is shorter than inner edge 10.
   According to the invention, only inner edge 10 is used to carry out the required
   sealing, possibly with annular recess 18, and outer edge 19 is not compressing the
20 flange or part of it. The receptacle shown in the right side of fig. 3 is of the single
   crown type, with a single pressing edge 10 provided with an outer edge 10a, that is
   the part of the edge that will contact the sealing protrusion 5.
   In the remaining attached figures, the receptacle 21 is always schematically shown
   having a substantially rectangular cross shape and only pressing edge 10 is shown,
25 this being the portion of receptacle where the sealing action is carried out.
   Notwithstanding this, the receptacle 21 of the brewing device could be provided with
   different shapes for example with rounded edge or discontinuous edge, and also in
   these cases an external portion 10a of the pressing edge 10 can be identified, for
   example in correspondence of the portion connecting the lateral external surface with
30 the bottom pressing surface (i.e. edge 10) of the receptacle and with the area of edge
    10 immediately adjacent to said connecting portion.
                                                13

   In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, the maximum external diameter of the
   lateral wall 2 of the capsule, i.e. the diameter measured at the intersection with the
   flange 4, is equal to the internal diameter of receptacle 21, and the external diameter
   of the receptacle 21 is equal to the diameter of the circle defined by the sealing
 5 protrusion 5 (as previously mentioned the protrusion is in the form of a
   circumference concentric with the lateral wall 2 of the capsule).
   The capsule also comprises a lid 13 that forms the outlet wall of the capsule and that
   is in part attached to the flange rim 4 of the capsule body. The lid 13 shown in fig. 3
   is a plastic lid provided with protruding portions that act as self-piercing outlets once
10 they are compressed against plate 22, optionally with the help of the pressure inside
   the capsule. Flange and lid wall are welded together at a location that is preferably
   between the edge of the flange rim and the sealing protrusion 5. The lid is not shown
   in figures 4-11, for sake of a greater simplicity of the drawings.
   As mentioned, the lid can be made also with different technology than the one above
15 described. For instance a foil element, in laminated plastics or from other materials,
   such as bio-material, plastic derived from renewable energy or alloy materials
   including a metallic base; a typical foil element is comprising aluminium layer(s)
   coupled with plastic layers to provide mechanical and gas barrier properties, welded
   to a corresponding portion of the flange. Other solutions available to the skilled in
20 the art comprise pre-punctured plastic foils, plastic lids with pre-cut holes, or filter
   paper.
   In the exemplary embodiment of figure 3, the capsule 2 is a sealed capsule that
   receives the required water from channel 15 of the base of the receptacle 21. Blades
    16 perforate inlet wall 3 to provide passages for the water entering the capsule. As
25 previously mentioned, other designs of receptacles and water feeding systems can
   also be used, e.g. for a capsule that is not sealed and where inlet wall 3 has a plurality
   of passages or water inlets may be created on the water inlet wall of the capsule by
   perforating a foil using spikes built into said water inlet wall (such as in
   W02006/030461 by the Applicant), no blades 16 are required.
30 The flange 4 is divided by sealing protrusion 5 into two portions that are preferably
   co-planar; however, the two portions could lie in different planes. Protrusion, or
                                                14

   sealing element, 5 has any suitable cross section shape, such as the exemplary shape
   of a triangle shown in figures 4, 7, or such as the shapes of fig. 5 and 6, or such as the
   shape shown in figures 12 and 12A. Truncated triangles, i.e. trapezes, or other shapes
   of the cross-section of the protrusion, can also be used, provided that the top is
 5 plastically deformable and the side on which outer edge 10a will insist in a closed
   condition, has the required inclination. Independently on the shape of the cross
   section of protrusion 5, sealing element 5 has at least one side 7 that is inclined by an
   internal angle a with respect to the plane of flange rim 4, said angle a, the position of
   the protrusion on the flange and the height H of the protrusion (measured from plane
10 P, see fig. 4), are arranged to have protrusion 5 contacting the external portion 1Oa of
   the edge 10 of receptacle 21 at least at one location selected from the top 8 and the
   side 7 of the protrusion, or both of them.
   The inclination angle a of said at least one side 7 of the sealing protrusion 5 is
   measured, as shown in the figures, between the inclined side and the plane P passing
15 through the upper surface of the flange-like rim outside the sealing protrusion 5.
   As shown in the figure the inclination angle a is preferably measured from the plane
   P of the flange-like rim 4 portion that is adjacent to the lateral wall 2 of the capsule.
   Angle a is within the range of 80 to 40 degrees, preferably in the range 80 to 60
   degrees, more preferably in the range 75 to 60 degrees, and most preferably in the
20 range 70 to 65 degrees, and is measured with reference to the plane in which the side
   7 lies; if the said side is irregular or concave/convex, or has a shape that is not plane,
   in order to measure the angle a a virtual plane is defined for side 7 by tracing a line
   11 between top 8 and point 7a, where flange 4 meets side 7, as shown in fig. 6. In the
   preferred embodiment the inclined side 7 is the internal side, i.e. the side that is
25 facing lateral wall 2 of capsule 1. As previously mentioned, side 7, i.e. the side that
   will, or could, contact the external portion of edge 10 of receptacle 21, can be
   irregular, as in fig. 5, or concave, as in fig. 6, or have other shapes, e.g. stepped. In
   all cases, side 7 is inclined with respect to plane P of the flange and defines an
   internal angle a. By "internal angle" it is meant the angle that is internal to projection
30 5, i.e. the angle facing away from lateral wall 2 of the capsule.
                                                 15

   The shape of the cross sections of protrusion 5 in general is in the form of a triangle
   or of a truncated triangle and the triangle can be selected from rectangled and scalene
   triangles, or from isosceles triangles; when the protrusion is in the form of an
   isosceles triangle, angle a is preferably in the range of 80 to 70 degrees. Preferably,
 5 the angle  P of the top  vertices of said triangles is in the range of 10 to 44 degrees,
   preferably 15 to 35 degrees; the same values apply to other shapes, for these shapes
   angle P is defined by identifying a plane for the sides of the protrusion in a way
   similar to what shown in fig 5 and 6 with virtual planes 11 and 12. In this way it can
   be ensured that the top part of the protrusion is sufficiently thin to be at least in part
10 plastically deformed when compressed by the receptacle's edge so as to compensate
   different end positions of the receptacles of different brewing devices, yet allowing
   optimal sealing means.
   According to different possible embodiments, the shape of the sealing protrusion 5
   between the inclined side 7 and the peripheral edge 4a of the flange-like rim 4 can be
15 different.
   As mentioned above, the sealing protrusion 5 forms at least one portion of increased
   thickness of the flange-like rim 4, and according to a possible embodiment the
   portion of increased thickness of the sealing protrusion is extending from said at least
   one side 7 towards the peripheral edge 4a of the flange-like rim 4.
20 It has to be noted that the sealing protrusion 5 forming an increased thickness portion
   of the flange-like rim 4 of the capsule may extend for the entire space between the at
   least one inclined side 7 and the peripheral edge 4a of the flange, as disclosed in the
   embodiment shown in the sectional view of figure 12A.
   More in detail, in the embodiment shown in figure 12A, the sealing protrusion 5
25 comprises an inclined side 7, namely an internal side, facing the lateral wall 2 of the
   capsule, having the required inclination angle a; protrusion 5 forms an increased
   thickness portion of the flange-like rim 4 extending completely between said side 7
   and the edge 4a of the flange-like rim 4. In other words, in the embodiment shown in
   figure 12A, the sealing protrusion 5 forms an increased thickness of the flange-like
30 rim 4 with respect to the thickness of the flange-like rim outside the sealing
                                                16

   protrusion, and in particular with respect to the portion of the flange-like rim
    adjacent to the lateral wall 2 of the capsule.
   As shown in figure 12A the portion of increased thickness of the flange-like rim
    comprises a flat surface 12 extending from the top 8 of the sealing protrusion 5 to the
 5  edge of said flange-like rim 4. In the shown embodiment the flat surface is parallel to
   the lower surface of the flange-like rim 4 thus a portion having a constant increased
   thickness is formed between side 7 and the edge 4a of the flange-like rim 4.
   However, according to different possible embodiments not shown in the figures, the
   flat surface may not extend from the top of the sealing protrusion but at distance
10 from the top. Preferably, the sealing protrusion 5 forms between the side 7 and the
   edge 4a of the flange 4 a constant increased thickness, i.e. the sealing protrusion is
   provided with a side 7 and extends towards the edge 4a of the flange 4 with a
   substantially flat upper surface 12.
   However, according to different possible embodiments, a variation of the thickness
15 of the sealing protrusion between the side 7 and the edge 4a of the flange 4 can be
   provided.
   Additionally, it has to be noted that even if only a sectional view, taken along a radial
   plane passing through a central axis of the capsule is shown in figure 12A, the
   sealing protrusion 5 extend continuously for the entire circumference of the flange 4,
20 in other words, all the section taken along the circumference of the flange 4 are
   preferably equal to each other.
   According to another possible embodiment of the capsule according to the invention,
   see for example figure 12, the sealing protrusion 5 forming an increased thickness of
   the flange-like rim 4 is extending only for a part of the space between the inclined
25 side 7 and the peripheral edge 4a of the flange-like rim 4.
   In the embodiment shown in figure 12, the sealing protrusion 5 comprises at least
   one side 7 that is inclined by an internal angle a with respect to the plane of flange
   rim 4. The inclined side 7 is the internal side of the sealing protrusion 5 facing the
   lateral wall 2 of the capsule.
30 As mentioned above, the angle a is within the range of 80 to 40 degrees, preferably
   in the range 80 to 60 degrees, more preferably in the range 75 to 60 degrees, and
                                                17

    most preferably in the range 70 to 65 degrees, and is measured between the plane in
    which the side 7 lies and the plane P passing through the surface of the flange-like
    rim 4 from which the sealing protrusion 5 is projecting, i.e. the surface of the flange
    like rim 4 from which the sealing protrusion 5 defines a portion having an increased
 5  thickness.
   As shown in figure 12, the inclination angle a is measured from the upper surface of
   the portion of the flange-like rim 4 adjacent to the lateral wall 2.
   In the shown embodiment the angle a is substantially 67 degrees.
    In the embodiment shown in figure 12, the sealing protrusion 5 forms an increased
10 thickness of the flange-like rim with respect to the portion of the said flange adjacent
   to the lateral wall 2 of the capsule.
   Also in this embodiment, the side 7 can be irregular or concave/convex, or in general
    can be provided with a shape that is not plane. In these cases in order to measure the
    angle a a virtual plane is defined for side 7 by tracing a line 11 between top 8 and
15 point 7a, where flange 4 meets side 7, as shown in fig. 12.
   It has to be noted that even if the in the embodiment shown in figure 12, the side 7
   has a rounded incidence point with the upper surface (plane P) of the flange-like rim
   4, it is possible to identify an imaginary point where the projection of the side 7 and
   the projection of the surface (plane P) of the flange-like rim are incident.
20 Additionally, the top portion 8 of the side 7 can be identified in the embodiment
   shown in figure 12 due to the change of inclination towards the peripheral edge 4a of
   the flange rim 4.
   In the embodiment of figure 12B the part of the protrusion adjacent to side 7 has a
   vertex or top 8 that is in the shape of a triangle, the remaining external part of the rim
25 being identical to that of the embodiment of figure 12.
   As it will be disclosed later, the distance L between top 8 of protrusion 5 and lateral
   wall 2 of the capsule is comprised in the range of 0.6 mm to 1.0 mm, and in the
   embodiment shown in figure 12 is preferably 0.7 mm. In this embodiment, the
   distance LI is preferably 0.5 to 0.6 mm.
30 As shown in figure 12, the increased thickness portion of the flange-like rim 4
   formed by the sealing protrusion 5 comprises a flat surface extending from said
                                                18

    inclined side 7 to the edge 4a of the flange-like rim. Preferably the flat surface of the
    thicker portion is extending from the top 8 of the inclined side 7 of the sealing
   protrusion 5.
    In the shown embodiment, the angle     P of the top vertices of the protrusion 5, i.e. the
 5  angle measured between the inclined side 7 and the substantially flat surface
    extending from the inclined side 7, is greater than 90 degrees, preferably greater than
    100 degrees. In the embodiment shown in figure 12, the angle P is substantially 110
    degrees.
   As already mentioned, according to a possible embodiment, as shown in figures 12
10  and 12B, the sealing protrusion 5 forms a thicker portion of the flange-like rim
    extending only for a part of the space between the inclined side 7 of the sealing
   protrusion 5 and the peripheral edge of the flange-like rim 4.
   In other words, as shown in figure 12, the sealing protrusion 5 is extending towards
   the peripheral edge 4a of the flange-like rim 4, but not for the complete extension of
15 the flange-like rim 4.
   More in detail, in the embodiment shown in figure 12 and 12B, the flange-like rim 4
   terminates with a substantially L-shaped edge (in a radial sectional view). The end
   portion of the L-shaped edge is direct away from the inlet wall 3 of the capsule. This
   configuration allows to form a cavity 17 in correspondence of the lower surface of
20 the flange-like rim 4.
   In fact, the flange-like rim 4 is shaped to comprise a cavity 17 that is located below
   the flange 4, i.e. in correspondence of the surface of the flange 4 that is facing away
   fi-om the inlet wall 3 of the capsule. The cavity 17 is arranged, in the shown
   embodiment of figure 12, in correspondence of the edge 4a of the flange 4, and
25 particularly adjacent to the sealing protrusion 5. The cavity is preferably extending
   for all the circumferential extension of the flange-like rim 4. it cab be interrupted
   However, according to different possible embodiments, as shown in figure 8 that will
   be disclosed later in greater detail, the cavity 17 can be also arranged in
   correspondence of the sealing protrusion 5.
30 The substantially L-shape of the edge 4a of the flange-like rim 4 makes the edge of
   the flange-like rim 4 more flexible, thus it can be adapted to different brewing
                                               19

   devices, thus reducing difficulties in removing the capsule from the brewing device
   at the end of the beverage preparation process.
   In the exemplary embodiment as shown in figures 12 and 12B, the L-shaped portion
   of the flange is shorter than the total height of the flange 4, i.e. the lower end of the
 5 L-portion of the flange stops at a distance from the plane P' of the lower side of the
   flange; lower side of the flange means the side of the flange facing away from the
   inlet wall for the water. A step 13 is preferably provided where cavity 17 reaches
   plane P' of the lower side of flange 4.
   Additionally, as valid for all the figures and as already mentioned above in
10 connection to figure 12A, the seating protrusion 5 is circular, i.e. it extends
   continuously for the entire circumference of the flange 4, in other words all the
   sections taken along the circumference of the flange 4 are preferably equal to each
   other.
   As a general rule, the height H (fig.4) of protrusion 5, that is measured from the
15 plane P of the upper side of flange 4, i.e. the side facing the inlet wall 3, is within the
   range of 0.3 to 1.3 mm, preferably 0.6 to 1.0, most preferably is 0.8 or 0.9 mm. The
   distance L between top 8 of protrusion and wall 2 of the capsule is preferably equal
   to or greater than the width W of edge 10 of receptacle 21. In case the distance L is
   greater than the width W of the edge 10 of the receptacle, the distance L is preferably
20 up to 1.5 times greater than the width W of the edge 10 (see e.g. fig.4), i.e. 1.0W< L
   < 1.5W. In an exemplary embodiment, L is in the range of 0.6 mm to 1.0 mm,
   preferably 0.7 mm; LI is 0.4 mm to 0.7 mm, preferably 0.5 mm to 0.7 mm.
   Additionally, preferred values of the distance Li are comprised in the range 0.63mm
   to 0.67mm, and in the range 0.5 mm to 0.55 mm. According to a possible
25 embodiment LI is 0.65 mm and H is 0.8. In any case LI is always shorter than L.
   In the present description, the width W of the edge is referred to the part of the
   receptacle that is effectively involved in the sealing action.
    According to a possible embodiment, the distance LI (see Fig. 4) between the lateral
   wall 2 of the capsule and the bottom end 7a of the inclined side 7 of said protrusion 5
30 is shorter than the width W of the edge 10 of said receptacle, i.e. L1<W. 7a is the
                                               20

   point defined by the intersection of the inclined side 7 of the protrusion 5 and the
   upper surface of the flange-like rim 4.
   In this case, the external portion 10a of the pressing edge 10 of receptacle 21 is
   generally located at least in part between the top 8 of protrusion 5 and the lateral wall
 5 2 of capsule 1, but could also be totally located between top 8 and capsule wall 2.
   Two possible positions of edge 10 are shown in fig. 7A and 7B to show how the
   protrusion of the invention can compensate differences in compression paths (and
   even differences in width W); in fig. 7A the compression path of receptacle 21 is
   shorter than in fig. 7B and the distance of compressing edge 10 from the flange 4 is
10 greater in 7A than in 7B. However, thanks to the design of the sealing protrusion, a
   sealing is obtained in both cases: in fig. 7A the external portion 10a of edge 10 of
   receptacle 21 is insisting on the inclined side 7 of the protrusion 5. In fig. 7B, where
   the distance edge 10 - flange 4 is smaller, edge 10 is insisting on the side 7 (internal
   side) of protrusion 5 with its external portion 10a and at least a portion of the
15 pressing edge 10, here its internal portion 10b, is insisting also on the lateral wall 2
   of the capsule. Internal side 7 of protrusion 5 will be in part deformed to
   accommodate the extra compression path, additionally, some degree of lateral
   movement of protrusion 5, due to the fact that it is made of thermoplastic material,
   will also help to accommodate receptacle 21 in the position of fig. 7B.
20 During the brewing step, this will result in a sort of closed chamber below the
   receptacle's edge 10. Moreover, according to another possible embodiment, not
   shown in the figures, in the closed condition or in the brewing step the edge 10 of the
   receptacle 21 is contacting the protrusion 5, and in particular at least a point of its
   inclined side 7, the lateral wall 2 of the capsule and at least a portion of the flange
25 like rim 4 of the capsule comprised between the lateral wall 2 and the inclined side 7
   of the protrusion.
   Fig. 8 shows another embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment protrusion 5
   is provided with a cavity 17 that is located below protrusion 5 and/or below flange 4.
   In fig. 8 part of cavity 17 is obtained in the left part of flange 4, but it can also extend
30 on the left side, or internal side, of the flange with respect to protrusion 5. The
                                                21

   function of this cavity is to provide further flexibility of the sealing protrusion and to
   increase its deformability to adapt to different types of receptacles 21.
   Fig. 9 schematically shows a possible compressed condition of the sealing protrusion
   of fig. 8 that has tilted according to the direction of arrow F in fig. 8. In case of a
 5 compression on the top 8, the protrusion will also shrink vertically. Further details on
   this embodiment can be found in co-pending application EP 12005215.4 "CAPSULE
   WITH IMPROVED SEALING ELEMENT" filed by the same applicant on the same
   day as the present application. Said document is hereto incorporated by reference.
   Fig. 10 and 11 show another embodiment of the invention, where a plurality of
10 ridges or protruding elements 24 are extending radially from the capsule lateral wall
   2 to sealing protrusion 5. The function of elements 24 is to adapt to the irregularities
   or indentations of pressing edge 10 and improve the sealing: to this purpose the
   shape of elements 24 is, in one embodiment, substantially corresponding to that of
   pressing edge 10, e.g. as elements 24 (fig. 10) that have a round/elliptical shape. In
15 fig. 10 are also shown alternative radially extending elements 23: these elements
   have the same function of elements 24 but are in the form of thin walls extending
   radially from lateral wall 2 of the capsule or from protrusion 5. Elements 23 and 24
   do not necessarily extend along the whole length from protrusion to capsule. These
   walls are shaped, dimensioned and positioned so as to deform under the pressing
20 edge 10 and adapt to its indentations (if present).
   Summarizing, the sealing means, or protrusion, 5 of the invention combines a top
   portion that is plastically deformable with a side 7 of the protrusion 5 that is inclined
   with respect to the flange plane P by an internal angle a within the range of 80 to 40
   degrees, preferably within the range of 80 to 60 degrees, more preferably 75 to 60
25 degrees, and most preferably 70 to 65 degrees.
   The top portion can be defined with an angle of 15 to 45 degrees if the sealing
   protrusion is substantially shaped as a triangle or with a top angle greater than 60
   degrees, preferably greater than 90 degrees, and most preferably greater than 100
   degrees if the sealing protrusion comprises a portion of increased thickness extending
30 from the inclined side 7, as for example shown in figures 12 and 12A. The distance L
   of the top 8 of the protrusion 5 from the lateral wall 2 of the capsule is equal or
                                               22

   greater than the width W of the edge 10 of the receptacle(s) 21 and is such as to have
   the receptacle 21 of the brewing device to insist on the top of the protrusion or,
   preferably, on the side of the protrusion. In a preferred embodiment the edge of the
   receptacle insists on both the side of the protrusion and the lateral wall of the
 5 capsule.
   The disclosed combination is suitable to compensate different compression paths of
   the receptacle and to therefore provide an adaptable sealing element that can be used
   in different models of brewing devices that include a receptacle 21 and a receiving
   plate 22. Additionally, the above combination reduces the overall force required for
10 sealing the receptacle on the capsule's flange.
   Additional radially extending elements 23, 24 provide an improved sealing of the
   receptacle 21 on flange 4 of the capsule, per se or in combination with the sealing
   protrusion.
                                              23

   CLAIMS
    1. A system for preparing a beverage, said system including:
   - a capsule (1) comprising a hollow body (6) including a lateral wall (2), an inlet
   wall (3), a flange-like rim (4) and a sealing protrusion (5) extending outwardly of
 5 said flange rim and spaced from said lateral wall (2),
   - a brewing device (20) comprising a receptacle (21) movable with respect to a
   receiving plate (22) of the brewing device from an open position to a closed
   position to provide a closed chamber for housing at least part of the capsule
   hollow body,
10 characterised in that the said protrusion (5) of the capsule has at least one side (7)
   that is inclined by an internal angle a within the range of 80 to 40 degrees with
   respect to the plane of said flange rim (4), said angle a and the spacing (L) from
   said lateral wall (2) of said protrusion (5) being arranged to have said protrusion
   (5) contacting the external portion (10a) of the edge (10) of said receptacle (21)
15 at least at one location selected from the top (8) and the side of the protrusion.
   2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said side (7) of the protrusion is the
   internal side of the protrusion (5).
   3. A system according to claim 2, wherein said edge (10) of said receptacle (21)
   is housed between said inclined side and said lateral wall (2) of the capsule.
20 4. A system according to any claim 1 to 3, wherein said angle a is within the
   range of 80 to 60 degrees, preferably 75 to 60 degrees, and more preferably 70 to
   65 degrees.
   5.   A system according to any previous claim, wherein said top (8) of the
   protrusion is at least in part plastically deformable.
25 6. A system according to claim 5, wherein the external diameter of the lateral
   wall (2) at the flange rim (4) said capsule (1) is equal to the internal diameter of
   said receptacle (21).
   7. A system according to any previous claim, wherein the angle            P of the top
   vertices of said protrusion is in the range of 10 to 45 degrees, preferably 15 to 35
30 degrees.
                                             24

   8. A system according to any previous claim, wherein said protrusion (5) is in
   the shape of a triangle.
   9. A system according to claim 8, wherein said triangle is selected from
   rectangled and scalene triangles.
 5  10. A system according to any claim 3 to 9, wherein said protrusion (5) forms at
   least one portion of increased thickness of said flange-like rim (4), said portion of
   increased thickness extending from said at least one side (7) of said protrusion (5)
   towards the edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4).
    11. A system according to claim 10, wherein said sealing protrusion (5) forming
10 an increased thickness of the flange-like rim (4) is extending for the entire space,
   or only for a part of the space, between the at least one inclined side (7) and the
   peripheral edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4).
    12. A system according to claim 10 or 11, wherein said portion of increased
   thickness of the flange-like rim (4) comprises a flat surface extending from the
15 top (8) of said inclined side (7) to the said edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4).
    13. A system according to any previous claim, wherein the edge (4a) of the
   flange-like rim (4) is substantially L-shaped in a radial cross sectional view.
    14. A system according to any previous claim, wherein said flange-like rim (4)
   comprises at least one cavity (17) arranged on the surface of said flange-like rim
20 (4) facing away from said inlet wall (3).
    15. A system according to claim 14, wherein said at least one cavity (17) is
   arranged in correspondence of said edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4) of the
   capsule.
    16. A system according to any previous claim, wherein in the closed condition or
25 in the brewing step the edge (10) of said receptacle is contacting both said
   protrusion (5) and said lateral wall (2) of the capsule.
    17. A system according to any previous claim, wherein in the closed condition or
   in the brewing step the edge (10) of said receptacle is contacting said protrusion
   (5), said lateral wall (2) and at least a portion of the flange-like rim (4) of the
30 capsule between said lateral wall (2) and said inclined side (7) of said protrusion
   (5).
                                            25

   18. A system according to any previous claim, wherein the distance (LI) between
   the lateral wall (2) of the capsule and the bottom end (7a) of the inclined side (7)
   of said protrusion (5) is comprised in the range 0.4 mm to 0.7 mm, preferably in
   the range 0.5 mm to 0.7 mm.
 5  19. A system according to any previous claim, wherein the distance (L) between
   the top (8) of said protrusion (5) and said lateral wall (2) of the capsule is
   comprised in the range 0.6 mm to 1.0 mm, preferably said distance (L) is 0.7
   mm.
   20. A system according to any previous claim, wherein the distance (LI) between
10 the lateral wall (2) of the capsule and the bottom end (7a) of the inclined side (7)
   of said protrusion (5) is shorter than the width (W) of the edge (10) of said
   receptacle.
   21. A system according to any previous claim, wherein the distance (L) between
   top (8) of said protrusion (5) and said lateral wall (2) of the capsule is equal to or
15 greater than the width (W) of edge 10 of receptacle.
   22. A system according to any previous claim, wherein the capsule (1) comprises
   a plurality of sealing elements (24, 23) that are protruding from the capsule
   flange rim (4) and that extend radially between said lateral wall (2) and said
   sealing protrusion (5).
20 23. A system according to claim 22, wherein said sealing elements are selected
   from round elements (24) and thin walls (23).
   24. A capsule (1) comprising a hollow body (6) including a lateral wall (2), an
   inlet wall (3), a flange-like rim (4) and a sealing protrusion (5) extending
   outwardly of said flange rim and spaced from said lateral wall (2), characterised
25 in that the said protrusion (5) of the capsule has an internal side (7), facing said
   lateral wall (2), that is inclined by an internal angle a within the range of 80 to 40
   degrees with respect to the plane of said flange rim (4).
   25. A capsule according to claim 24, wherein said side (7) of the protrusion (5) is
   irregular or curved.
                                            26

   26. A capsule according to any claim 24 - 25, wherein said angle a is within the
   range of 80 to 60 degrees, preferably 75 to 60 degrees, and more preferably 70 to
   65 degrees.
   27. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 26, wherein the top (8) of the
 5 protrusion (5) is at least in part plastically deformable.
   28. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 27, wherein the angle       P of the
   top vertices of said protrusion is in the range of 10 to 45 degrees, preferably 15 to
   35 degrees.
   29. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 28, wherein said protrusion
10 (5) is in the shape of a triangle.
   30. A capsule according to any claim 24 to 29, wherein said protrusion (5) forms
   at least one portion of increased thickness of said flange-like rim (4), said portion
   of increased thickness extending from said at least one side (7) of said protrusion
    (5) towards the edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4).
15  31. A capsule according to claim 30, wherein said sealing protrusion (5) forming
    an increased thickness of the flange-like rim (4) is extending for the entire space,
    or only for a part of the space, between the at least one inclined side (7) and the
   peripheral edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4).
    32. A capsule according to claim 30 or 31, wherein said portion of increased
20 thickness of the flange-like rim (4) comprises a flat surface extending from the
   top (8) of said inclined side (7) to the said edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4).
    33. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 32, wherein the edge (4a) of
   the flange-like rim (4) is substantially L-shaped in a radial cross sectional view.
    34. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 33, wherein said flange-like
25  rim (4) comprises at least one cavity (17) arranged on the surface of said flange
    like rim (4) facing away from said inlet wall (3).
    35. A capsule according to claim 34, wherein said at least one cavity (17) is
    arranged in correspondence of the edge (4a) of said flange-like rim (4) of the
    capsule.
30  36. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 35, wherein the distance (LI)
    between the lateral wall (2) of the capsule and the bottom end (7a) of the inclined
                                             27

   side (7) of said protrusion (5) is comprised in the range 0.4 mm to 0.7 mm,
   preferably in the range 0.5 mm to 0.7 mm.
   37. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 36, wherein the distance (L)
   between the top (8) of said protrusion (5) and said lateral wall (2) of the capsule
 5 is comprised in the range 0.6 mm to 1.0 mm, preferably said distance (L) is 0.7
   mm.
   38. A capsule according to any previous claim 24 - 37, comprising a plurality of
   sealing elements (24, 23) that are protruding from the capsule flange rim (4) and
   that extend radially between said lateral wall (2) and said sealing protrusion (5).
10 39. A capsule according to claim 38, wherein said sealing elements are selected
   from round elements (24) and thin walls (23) .
   40. A capsule (1), comprising a hollow body (6) including a lateral wall (2), an
   inlet wall (3), a flange-like rim (4) and sealing means extending outwardly of
   said flange rim, characterised in that the said sealing means comprises a plurality
15 of sealing elements (24, 23) that are protruding from the capsule flange rim (4)
   and that extend radially on said flange.
   41. A capsule according to claim 40, further comprising a sealing protrusion (5)
   that extends in a circumference on said flange and wherein said sealing elements
   (24, 23) are located between said lateral wall (2) and said sealing protrusion (5).
20 42. The capsule according to claim 41, wherein the sealing elements (24, 23)
   extend for the whole length between the sealing protrusion (5) and the capsule, or
   extend for part of the length between the sealing protrusion (5) and the capsule.
   43. The capsule according to any claim 40 - 42, further comprising a lid that form
   the outlet wall of the capsule and that is in part attached to the flange-like rim (4)
25 said lid is selected from a plastic lid and a foil element.
   44. The capsule according to any previous claim 40 - 43, wherein said sealing
   elements (23,24) and/or said sealing protrusion (5) extend from the flange-like
   rim (4) towards the inlet wall (3) of the capsule.
   45. The capsule according to any claim 41 to 44, wherein the flange-like rim (4)
30 is divided by said sealing protrusion (5) into two portions that are co-planar or
   that are lying in different planes.
                                            28

    46.        The capsule according to any previous claim 40 - 45, wherein said
    sealing elements are selected from round elements (24) and thin walls (23).
   47. The capsule according to any previous claim 40 - 46, wherein the sealing
   protrusion (5) is extending outwardly of said flange rim and spaced from said
 5 lateral wall (2), wherein said protrusion (5) has an internal side (7), facing said
   lateral wall (2), that is inclined by an internal angle a within the range of 80 to 40
   degrees with respect to the plane of said flange rim (4).
   48. A capsule according to claim 47, wherein said angle a is within the range of
   80 to 60 degrees, preferably 75 to 60 degrees, and more preferably 70 to 65
10 degrees.
   49. A capsule according to claim 47 or 48, wherein the angle      P of the top vertices
   of said protrusion is in the range of 10 to 45 degrees, preferably 15 to 35 degrees.
   50. A capsule according to any claim 41 to 49, wherein said protrusion (5) is in
   the shape of a triangle.
15 51. A capsule according to any claim 47 to 50, wherein the distance (L1) between
   the lateral wall (2) of the capsule and the bottom end (7a) of the inclined side (7)
   of said protrusion (5) is comprised in the range 0.4 mm to 0.7 mm, preferably in
   the range 0.5 mm to 0.7 mm.
   52. A capsule according to any claim 47 to 51, wherein the distance (L) between
20 the top (8) of said protrusion (5) and said lateral wall (2) of the capsule is
   comprised in the range 0.6 mm to 1.0 mm, preferably said distance (L) is 0.7
   mm.
   53. A system for preparing a beverage, said system including:
       - a capsule (1) comprising a hollow body (6) including a lateral wall (2), an
25 inlet wall (3), a flange-like rim (4) and sealing means extending outwardly of
   said flange rim,
   - a brewing device (20) comprising a receptacle (21) movable with respect to a
   receiving plate (22) of the brewing device from an open position to a closed
   position to provide a closed chamber for housing at least part of the capsule
30 hollow body, the receptacle (21) having an edge (10);
                                            29

    characterised in that said sealing means comprises a plurality of sealing elements
    (24, 23) that are protruding from the capsule flange rim (4) and that extend
    radially on said flange.
   54. A system according to claim 53, wherein said capsule further comprises a
 5 sealing protrusion (5) extending outwardly of said flange rim and spaced from
   said lateral wall (2), wherein said protrusion (5) of the capsule has at least one
   side (7) that is inclined by an internal angle a within the range of 80 to 40 degrees
   with respect to the plane of said flange rim (4), said angle a and the spacing (L)
   from said lateral wall (2) of said protrusion (5) being arranged to have said
10 protrusion (5) contacting the external portion (10a) of the edge (10) of said
   receptacle (21) at least at one location selected from the top (8) and the side of the
   protrusion.
   55. A system according to claim 53 or 54, wherein said capsule is a capsule
   according to any claim 40 to 52.
15
                                            30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
