                                       ABSTRACT
        A merchandiser, comprising:
        a temperature controlled compartment with a plurality of types of temperature
controlled products therein;
        a vending module in communication with the temperature controlled compartment; and
        an identification module in communication with the vending module, the identification
module adapted to recognize an ambient product corresponding to a first type of the plurality
of types of temperature controlled products;
        the vending module adapted to dispense a first temperature controlled product of the
first type in response to the ambient product being placed in communication with and
recognized by the identification module.

                                        MERCHANDISER
        [0101] The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
        [0102] The present application relates generally to merchandisers such as coolers and
other types of product dispensers and more particularly relates to a merchandiser with features of
an open front cooler and with the increased energy efficiency of a glass door merchandiser.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        [0103] Generally described, an open front cooler includes a refrigerated open enclosure
with a number of products therein within the reach of a consumer. Because of this quick and easy
accessibility and proximity to the chilled products therein, open front coolers often spur impulse
purchases by consumers, who prefer chilled products to those at ambient temperatures.        As a
result, open front coolers generally provide an increased sales volume over conventional glass
door merchandisers and the like of the same size and/or in similar locations and/or with products
stored at ambient temperatures on shelves.
        One drawback with conventional open front coolers, however, is that the cooler consumes
several times more energy than a glass door merchandiser of the same size due to the lack of a
door or other type of insulated front space. The increased sales revenue generally provided by an
open front cooler thus may not cover or justify the increased energy cost.
                                                  1

         [0105] There is thus a desire therefore for an improved open front cooler or other type of
merchandiser that promotes impulse purchases and easy accessibility like an open front cooler but
with the reduced energy costs of a glass door merchandiser and the like.
         [0106] A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior art
is not to be taken as an admission or a suggestion that that document or matter was known or that
the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of
any of the claims.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0107] According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided a merchandiser,
comprising:
         a temperature controlled compartment with a plurality of types of temperature controlled
products therein;
         a vending module in communication with the temperature controlled compartment; and
         an identification module in communication with the vending module, the identification
module adapted to recognize an ambient product corresponding to a first type of the plurality of
types of temperature controlled products;
         the vending module adapted to dispense a first temperature controlled product of the first
type in response to the ambient product being placed in communication with and recognized by
the identification module.

        [0108] The vending module may include an internal transport system in communication
with the identification module and a vending port. The temperature controlled compartment may
include a heating/cooling module, and a payment module.
        [0109] The identification module may be further adapted to recognize a second ambient
product corresponding to a second type of the plurality of types of temperature controlled
products, wherein the second type is different than the first type. The identification module may
be further adapted to reject an ambient product that is not recognized to correspond to one of the
plurality of types of temperature controlled products. The plurality of types of temperature
controlled products may comprise different brands of products.
        [0110] According to another aspect of the present invention the internal transport system
is further in communication with the temperature controlled compartment. the internal transport
system is adapted to transport the ambient product to the temperature controlled compartment and
further adapted to transport the first temperature controlled product from the temperature
controlled compartment to the vending port.
        [0111] According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
merchandiser, comprising:
        a temperature controlled compartment with a plurality of types of temperature controlled
products therein; and
        a vending module in communication with the temperature controlled compartment;
        an identification module in communication with the vending module, the identification
module adapted to recognize an ambient product corresponding to a first type of the plurality of
types of temperature controlled products;

        the identification module is further adapted to reject an ambient product that is not
recognized to correspond to one of the plurality of types of temperature controlled products
        [0112] The plurality of types of temperature controlled products may include different
brands of products.
        [0113] The vending module may include:
        an internal transport system in communication with the identification module, the
temperature controlled compartment, and a vending port;
        the internal transport system is adapted to transport the ambient product to the temperature
controlled compartment and further adapted to transport the first temperature controlled product
from the temperature controlled compartment to the vending port.
        [0114] According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
merchandiser, comprising:
        a temperature controlled compartment with a plurality of brands of temperature controlled
products therein; and
        a vending module in communication with the temperature controlled compartment;
        an identification module in communication with the vending module, the identification
module adapted to recognize an ambient product corresponding to a first brand of the plurality of
brands of temperature controlled products;
        the identification module is further adapted to reject an ambient product that is not
recognized to correspond to one of the plurality of brands of temperature controlled products;

        the vending module adapted to dispense a first temperature controlled product of the first
brand in response to the ambient product being placed in communication with and recognized by
the identification module.
        [0115] The identification module may be further adapted to recognize a second ambient
product corresponding to a second brand of the plurality of types of temperature controlled
products, wherein the second brand is different than the first brand.
        [0116] According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a merchandiser,
comprising: a temperature controlled compartment with a vertical chute, the vertical chute
adapted to store a temperature controlled product therein; a vending module in communication
with the temperature controlled compartment; and an identification module in communication
with the vending module, the identification module adapted to recognize an ambient product
corresponding to the temperature controlled product; wherein the vending module is operative to
dispense the temperature controlled product in response to the ambient product being placed in
communication with and recognized by the identification module.
        [0017] According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a merchandiser,
comprising: a temperature controlled compartment with a vertical chute, the vertical chute
adapted to store a temperature controlled product therein; a vending module in communication
with the temperature controlled compartment; and an identification module in communication
with the vending module, the identification module adapted to recognize an ambient product
corresponding to the temperature controlled product; wherein the identification module is further
adapted to reject an ambient product that is not recognized to correspond to the temperature
controlled product.

        [0118] The vending module may include an internal transport system in communication
with the identification module, the temperature controlled compartment, and a vending port.
        [0119] The internal transport system may be adapted to transport the ambient product to
the temperature controlled compartment and further adapted to transport the first temperature
controlled product from the temperature controlled compartment to the vending port.
        [0120] The temperature controlled compartment may include a heating/cooling module,
and a payment module.
        [0121] The identification module may include a counter-mechanism to keep count of the
temperature controlled products within the temperature controlled compartment, wherein the
counter-mechanism will reject the ambient product corresponding to the first type of the plurality
of types of temperature controlled products if the percentage of the first type within the
temperature controlled compartment exceeds a predetermined limit.
        [0122] These and other features and improvements of the present application will become
apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the following detailed description when
taken in conjunction with the several drawings and the appended claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0123] Fig. 1 is a perspective view of an example of a merchandiser as is described herein.
        [0124] Fig. 2 is schematic view of the merchandiser of Fig. 1.
        [0125] Fig. 3 is a perspective view of an internal transport system as may be used with the
merchandiser of Fig. 1.

       [0126] Fig. 4 is a perspective view of an alternative embodiment of the internal transport
       system as may be used with the merchandiser of Fig. 1.
       Fig. 5 is a perspective view of a further alternative embodiment of the internal transport
system as may be used with the merchandiser of Fig. 1.
       Fig. 6 is a schematic view of an alternative embodiment of a merchandiser as may be
described herein.
       Fig. 7 is a perspective view of an example of the merchandiser of Fig. 6.
       Fig. 8 is a schematic view of a further alternative embodiment of a merchandiser as may
be described herein.
       Fig. 9 is a schematic view of a further alternative embodiment of a merchandiser as may
be described herein.
       Fig. 10 is a flowchart showing a number of steps in the dispensing of a product in the
merchandiser described herein.
       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
       The present application concerns the offer for sale or other use of any number of products
10. Although the products 10 are shown, by way of example only, in the form of bottles 20, is
understood that the products 10 may include any type or size of container including, but not
limited to, bottles, cans, pouches, boxes, wrapped items, and/or any type of rigid or flexible
packaging.    The products 10 may include beverages, food items, non-food items, consumer
products, and/or any type of product 10 that may be positioned on a shelf and/or that may be
vended.   The scope of this application is in no way limited by the nature of the products 10

intended to be used herein. Similarly, while one use herein is for a chilled product 10, it will be
understood that the products 10 herein may be at ambient, refrigerated, frozen, heated or at any
desired temperature or state.
        As will be described in more detail below, the products 10 herein may take the form of
ambient products 30 and temperature controlled products 40. The ambient products 30 and the
temperature controlled products 40 may or may not be the same product 10. Other product
variations may be used herein.
        Figs. 1 and 2 show a merchandiser 100 as may be described herein. The merchandiser 100
may include one or more open or ambient compartments 110. Each ambient compartment 110
may include a number of open or ambient compartment shelves 120. Any number of ambient
compartment shelves 120 may be used. Likewise, the ambient compartment shelves 120 may
have any desired shape or size. Any number of the products 10 may be placed on the ambient
compartment shelves 120. Although flat shelves are shown herein, the ambient compartment
shelves 120 may be any structure that may support the products 10 such as angled shelves, gravity
feed shelves, neck tracker tubes, product chutes, and the like. Likewise, vertical columns and
conventional vending columns also may be used. At least the front of the ambient compartment
110 may allow unimpeded access to the products 10 on the ambient compartment shelves 120.
        The ambient compartment 110 described herein generally at an ambient temperature and
as such is not temperature controlled. Likewise, the products 10 therein may be at an ambient
temperature. Part or the entire ambient compartment 110, however, could be heated, cooled, or
otherwise temperature controlled as desired at least temporarily.
        The merchandiser 100 also may include a temperature controlled compartment 130. The
temperature controlled compartment 130 may be enclosed and/or insulated.         The temperature

controlled compartment 130 may have any number of temperature controlled shelves 140. The
temperature controlled shelves 140 may have any desired shape, size, or orientation. Although
only one temperature controlled shelf 140 is shown, any number of shelves 140 may be used.
Although flat shelves are shown herein, the temperature controlled shelves 140 may be any
structure that may support the products 10 such as angled shelves, gravity feed shelves, neck
tracker tubes, product chutes, and the like. Likewise, vertical columns and conventional vending
columns also may be used. Although the temperature controlled compartment 130 is shown in
Figs. 1 and 2 as integral with the merchandiser 100, it is to be understood that the temperature
controlled compartment 130 may operate as a stand-alone unit, allowing ambient products 10
such as on traditional store shelves or containers to be used in combination with the temperature
controlled compartment 130 as described herein.
        The number of ambient compartment shelves 120 is generally greater than the number of
temperature controlled shelves 140, but not necessarily so.           The temperature controlled
compartment 130 may be at any desired temperature from freezing, chilled, ambient, warm, or
hot. The temperature controlled compartment 130 may be in communication with a conventional
heating/cooling module 150 and the like. Multiple temperature controlled compartments 130 with
multiple temperatures     also may be used herein.         Although the temperature controlled
compartment 130 is shown as positioned beneath the ambient compartment 110, the temperature
controlled compartment 130 may be positioned on top, on the side, or, as explained below, apart
from the ambient compartment 110.
        The temperature controlled compartment 130 and/or the ambient compartment 110 may
include a scanner or other type of identification module 160.       The scanner module 160 may
include a barcode scanner, an RFID tag reader, photoelectric cells, and/or any type of device that

may read indicia on the product 10, identify the shape of the product 10, or otherwise identify the
product 10. Alternatively, the identity of the product 10 may be entered or otherwise indicated by
a consumer such as by pressing a product selection button and the like. Other types of selection
means may be used herein.       Although the scanner module 160 is shown as being positioned
adjacent to the temperature controlled compartment 130, the scanner module 160 may be
positioned in any convenient location. The scanner module 160 also may reject a product 10 that
is not intended to be used with the merchandiser 100 as a whole.
         The merchandiser 100 also may include a vending module 170. The vending module 170
may include a vending port 180. Although the vending port 180 is shown as being positioned
adjacent to the temperature controlled compartment 130 and the scanner module 160, the vending
module 170 may be positioned in any convenient location.
         The vending module 170 may include an internal transport system 190.         The internal
transport system 190 may transport the products 10 from the scanner module 160 or other location
to a location within the temperature controlled compartment 130 or otherwise.         The internal
transport system 190 also may transport the products 10 to the vending port 180 or otherwise as
desired. Any number of internal transport system configurations may be used herein.
         Fig. 3 shows an embodiment of the internal transport system 190 as a conveyor belt
system 200. The temperature controlled shelves 140 may be divided into a number of columns
210 with the products 10 thereon. Each or some of the columns 210 may have a column conveyor
belt 220 positioned thereabout or a similar type of product drive means. The column conveyor
belts 220 also may be in communication with a transverse conveyor belt 230 or a similar type of
product drive means. In this example, the transverse conveyor belt 230 may be positioned at the

rear of the temperature controlled compartment 130. Other vending configurations may be used
herein.
        In use, one of the column conveyor belts 220 may deliver a selected ambient product 30
from the scanner module 160 and deliver it to the transverse belt 230 or otherwise. The transverse
belt 230 then may deliver the product 30 to one of the columns 210 so as to be temperature
controlled. Likewise, the column belt 220 may dispense the corresponding temperature controlled
product 40 to be vended to the vending port 180 or otherwise via gravity or otherwise. Other
vending procedures may be used herein.
        Fig. 4 shows a further embodiment of the internal transport system as a conveyor belt and
chute system 240.      The conveyor belt and chute system 240 also may include a number of
columns 210 with column conveyor belts 220 thereon as well as a transverse conveyor belt 230 or
a similar type of drive means. In this case, the transverse conveyor belt 230 may be positioned
about the scanner module 160.       Other positions may be used herein.      A chute 250 may be
positioned beneath the shelf 140 and in communication with the vending port 180. Other vending
configurations may be used herein.
        In use, the transverse conveyor belt 230 may remove the selected ambient product 30 from
the scanner module 160 and deliver it to the appropriate column 210 to be temperature controlled.
The column conveyor belt 220 then may position the ambient product 30 onto the column 210
while also dispensing the corresponding temperature controlled product 40 into the chute 250 via
gravity or otherwise. Alternatively, a positioning bar 260 may push the selected ambient product
30 into the appropriate column 210. Other vending procedures may be used herein.
        Fig. 5 shows a further embodiment of the internal transport system as a vertical product
system 270. The vertical product system 270 may include the scanner module 160 positioned on

top of the temperature controlled compartment 130. The vertical product system 270 may include
a top conveyor 280 while the temperature controlled compartment 130 may include a number of
vertical chutes 290 in communication therewith as the temperature controlled shelves 140. Other
vending configurations may be used herein.
        In use, a selected ambient product 30 may be read by the scanner module 160 and then
travel along the top conveyor 280 into one of the chutes 290.      Likewise, the corresponding
temperature controlled product 40 may drop out of the chutes 290 and into the vending port 180
under gravity or otherwise. Alternatively, a number of the angled shelves 140 may be used such
that the top conveyor 280 may deliver the ambient product 30 to the back of one of the shelves
140 and the temperature controlled product 40 may exit from the front of one of the shelves 140.
A vertical transport system also may be used herein.    Other vending procedures may be used
herein.
        Figs. 6 and 7 show a further embodiment of a merchandiser 300. In this embodiment, the
merchandise 300 may be modular with the ambient compartment 110 separate from the
temperature controlled compartment 130. Although the scanner module 160 is shown as being
part of the temperature controlled compartment 130, the scanner module 160 also may be
positioned at any convenient location. Likewise, the heating/cooling module 150 is shown as
being positioned within the temperature control compartment 130 but also could be positioned
elsewhere as may be desired. Moreover, only the temperature controlled compartment 130 may
be used. Other configurations may be used herein.
        Fig. 8 shows a further embodiment of a merchandiser 310. The merchandiser 310 may
include a vending compartment 320 instead of the ambient compartment 110.          The vending
compartment 320 may include conventional vending controls 330 such as selection panels and

payment devices. A consumer may make a product selection at the vending compartment 320.
The vending compartment 320 may deliver the ambient product 30 to the temperature controlled
compartment 130 and/or the scanner module 160.         The corresponding temperature controlled
product 40 then may be vended as above. The vending compartment 320 may be at ambient or
any desired temperature. As is shown in Fig. 9, a merchandiser 340 also may be modular with the
vending compartment 320 separate from the temperature controlled compartment 130.            Other
configurations may be used herein.
        In an alternative embodiment, the merchandiser 310 may include an ambient glass front
compartment that resembles a glass front cooler, but operates at ambient temperature. The glass
front portion of the merchandiser 310 may sit integrally with or merely proximate to the
temperature controlled compartment 130, and may be accessed in response to a payment
operation that allows the door to be opened via a payment module in response to completing a
valid transaction.
        Fig. 10 shows a flowchart of several of the process steps that may be used herein in
providing the product 10 to a consumer. The process starts at step 400 in which the consumer
approaches the merchandiser 100. At step 410, the consumer may remove one of the products 10
from one of the ambient compartment shelves 120 of the ambient compartment 110, i.e., the
selected ambient product 30. At step 420, the consumer may place the selected ambient product
30 in the scanner module 160. At step 430, the scanner module 160 identifies the product 30
therein. If the product 30 is identified, the process continues to step 440. If not, the process is
terminated. At step 440, the internal transport system 190 may dispense a temperature controlled
product 40 to the vending port 180 that is temperature controlled and corresponds to the selected
ambient product 30. At step 450, the internal transport system 190 may position the ambient

product 30 into the appropriate column 210 in the temperature controlled compartment 130 so as
to be temperature controlled and for later use as the temperature controlled product 40.      The
method ends at step 460. Other method steps may be used herein.
        The merchandiser 100 may provide for at least a degree of product "purity", i.e., only a
single brand, series of brands, or brands of a specific company may be recognized by the scanner
module 160 such that any other products 10 or brands may be rejected.               This may be
accomplished, for example, by the scanner module 160 being adapted to recognize only
predetermined products, rejecting all others by default. Further, a percentage of the products 10
therein may be of one brand or one company and a certain percentage may be of another. To
enforce a permitted "purity" percentage, the scanner module 160 further may include a counter
mechanism to keep inventory of different products 10 on hand in the temperature controlled
compartment 130 and reject certain products 10 if their proportion in the temperature controlled
compartment 130 exceeds a predetermined limit. Any percentage may be used herein. A balance
of products 10 likewise may or may not be found in the ambient compartment 110 and the
temperature controlled compartment 130.
        The use of the merchandiser 100 thus provides the impulse purchases often found with an
open front cooler given the use of the ambient compartment 110.           The merchandiser 100,
however, also provides the energy efficiency (and potentially even great efficiency) typically
found with a glass door merchandiser given the use of the relatively smaller temperature
controlled compartment 130 and the general lack of temperature controls about the ambient
compartment 110.
        Moreover, the positioning of the scanner module 160 directly on top of the vending port
180 may give the consumer an enjoyable "instant chill" experience, i.e., simulating that the

ambient product 30 was instantaneously cooled to its desired temperature as the temperature
controlled product 140.        The merchandiser 100 thus provides impulse purchases, energy
efficiency, and an improved and enjoyable consumer experience.
         It should be apparent that the foregoing relates only to certain embodiments of the present
application and that numerous changes and modifications may be made herein by one of ordinary
skill in the art without departing from the general spirit and scope of the invention as defined by
the following claims and the equivalents thereof.
         Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in this
specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the
stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or more
other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereto.

      THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
         1. A merchandiser, comprising:
         a temperature controlled compartment with a vertical chute, the vertical chute adapted to
store a temperature controlled product therein;
         a vending module in communication with the temperature controlled compartment; and
         an identification module in communication with the vending module, the identification
module adapted to recognize an ambient product corresponding to the temperature controlled
product;
         wherein the vending module is operative to dispense the temperature controlled product in
response to the ambient product being placed in communication with and recognized by the
identification module.
         2. The merchandiser of claim 1, wherein the identification module is positioned on top of
the temperature controlled compartment.
         3. The merchandiser of claim 1 or 2, further comprising a transport mechanism adapted to
transport the recognized ambient product to the vertical chute.
         4. The merchandiser of claim 3, wherein the transport mechanism is adapted to transport
the recognized ambient product along the top of the vertical chute.
         5. The merchandiser of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the vending module comprises
an internal transport system in communication with the identification module and a vending port.

         6. The merchandiser of claim 5, wherein the internal transport mechanism is adapted to
transport the recognized ambient product along the top of the vertical chute.
         7. The merchandiser of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the temperature controlled
compartment comprises a heating/cooling module.
         8. The merchandiser of any one of claims I to 7, further comprising a payment module.
         9. The merchandiser of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the identification module is
further adapted to reject an ambient product that is not recognized to correspond to the
temperature controlled product.
         10. A merchandiser, comprising:
          a temperature controlled compartment with a vertical chute, the vertical chute adapted to
store a temperature controlled product therein;
         a vending module in communication with the temperature controlled compartment; and
         an identification module in communication with the vending module, the identification
module adapted to recognize an ambient product corresponding to the temperature controlled
product;
         wherein the identification module is further adapted to reject an ambient product that is
not recognized to correspond to the temperature controlled product.

         11. The merchandiser of claim 10, wherein the identification module is positioned above
the temperature controlled compartment.
         12. The merchandiser of claim 10 or 11, wherein the vending module comprises an
internal transport system in communication with the identification module, the temperature
controlled compartment, and a vending port;
         wherein the internal transport system is adapted to transport the ambient product to the
vertical chute.
         13. The merchandiser of claim 12, wherein the internal transport mechanism is adapted to
transport the recognized ambient product along the top of the vertical chute.
         14. The merchandiser of any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the temperature controlled
compartment comprises a heating/cooling module.
         15. The merchandiser of any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the vending module is
operative to dispense the temperature controlled product in response to the ambient product being
placed in communication with and recognized by the identification module.

2015200872
<removed-apn> 03
           20 Apr 2015
              Feb 2018

2015200872
<removed-apn> 03
           20 Apr 2015
              Feb 2018

2015200872
<removed-apn> 03
           20 Apr 2015
              Feb 2018

2015200872
<removed-apn> 03
           20 Apr 2015
              Feb 2018

2015200872
<removed-apn> 03
           20 Apr 2015
              Feb 2018

2015200872
<removed-apn> 03
           20 Apr 2015
              Feb 2018

