                                       ABSTRACT
    A NANO-ENCAPSULATED SILICA-FERRITE SYSTEM AND A PROCESS FOR
                                 PREPARING THE SAME
The present invention relates to a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system and a
process for preparing the same. The process comprises mixing the precursor of a ferrite
based compound in a first fluid medium, adding a chelating agent, adjusting the pH to
obtain a pH adjusted mixture, preparing a solution of a silica based compound in a
second fluid medium to obtain a third mixture, adding the third mixture to the pH
adjusted mixture followed by heating and stirring to obtain a gel, heating the gel at a
third predetermined temperature, pulverizing the dried complex to obtain a pulverized
complex    powder,   and    sintering the pulverized  complex   powder    at  a fourth
predetermined temperature, for a third predetermined time period, which is greater than
the third predetermined temperature to obtain a product comprising the nano
encapsulated silica-ferrite system.

A    NANO-ENCAPSULATED            SILICA-FERRITE        SYSTEM       AND     A
PROCESS FOR PREPARING THE SAME
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system
and a process for preparing the same.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Nano-particles and/or nano-materials are researched for their properties
and wide array of applications. Especially, magnetic nano-materials such
as ferrites, which are characterized to have magnetic as well as electrical
properties. The magnetic properties of these ferrite nano-particles make
them potential candidate for applications including, but not limited to, high
density data storage devices, catalysis, medical applications, including,
but   not   limited  to,   drug delivery,  magnetic    resonance     imaging,
hyperthermia,     miniaturized analysis, immobilization of proteins and
enzymes, sensors, magneto-optic storage, and waste water treatment.
In the process of preparation of the ferrite nano-particles, agglomeration
of the nano-particles, which is attributed to strong inter-particle attraction,
is a major hurdle.

Attempts      have   been   made    to   overcome      the  above-mentioned
agglomeration issue. One method to overcome the agglomeration issue is
to disperse the ferrite nano-particles in an inert and insulating material,
which reduce, if not completely eliminate, the inter-particle attraction.
Further, the inert and insulating material improve and/or modify and/or
affect at least some of the properties of the ferrite nano-particles.
OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION
Some of the objects of the presently disclosed invention, of which at the
minimum one object is fulfilled by at least one embodiment disclosed
herein, are as follows:
An object of the present invention is to remove or reduce one or more
deficiencies encountered in the prior art or at the minimum deliver a
beneficial substitute;
Another object of the present invention is to provide a nano-encapsulated
silica-ferrite system;
Still another object of the present invention is to provide a process for
preparing a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system; and
Still another object of the present invention is to provide a process for
                                    2 of 19

preparing a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system that is efficient and
economical.
Other objects and benefits of the present invention will be more apparent
from the following description, which is not intended to bind the scope of
the present invention.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system
and a process for preparing the same.
In one aspect, a process for preparing a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite
system is disclosed, the process comprising the process steps of
providing at least one precursor of at least one ferrite based compound,
mixing the at least one precursor of at least one ferrite based compound
in a first fluid medium, at a predetermined stirring speed and a first
predetermined temperature, to obtain a first mixture thereof, adding a
chelating agent to the first mixture to obtain a second mixture, adjusting
the pH of the second mixture to obtain a pH adjusted mixture, preparing a
solution of at least one precursor of at least one silica based compound in
a second fluid medium to obtain a third mixture, adding the third mixture
to the pH adjusted mixture to obtain a fourth mixture, heating and stirring
the fourth mixture for a first predetermined time period and at a second
                                   3 of 19

predetermined temperature to obtain a gel, heating the gel at a third
predetermined temperature, for a second predetermined time period,
wherein the first fluid medium and the second fluid medium are at least
partially evaporated, to obtain a dried complex substantially devoid of the
first fluid medium and the second fluid medium, pulverizing the dried
complex to obtain a pulverized complex powder, having a particle size
below a predetermined value and sintering the pulverized complex
powder at a fourth predetermined temperature, for a third predetermined
time period, which is greater than the third predetermined temperature to
obtain a product comprising the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system.
In accordance with the present invention, the process of the present
invention is characterized by a core-cladding formation index having a
value in the range of 1.5 to 4.5, wherein the core-cladding formation index
is defined by the formula:
                            S=    9xT  +   P XT  X 10-4
                                 T    sW
wherein
     -   tg is first predetermined time period (gelation time),
     -   Tg is second predetermined temperature (gelation temperature);
                                      4 of 19

    -   Ts is fourth predetermined temperature (sintering temperature);
    -   Tf is the firing temperature; and
    -   Sp/Wc is the weight ratio of the at least one silica based compound
        to the second fluid medium.
In one embodiment, tg is in the range of 1000 minutes to 1500 minutes,
Tg is in the range of 42    OC to 47 C, Ts is in the range of 950  OC to 1150
 C, Tf is in the range of 180 OC to 200      OC, and Sp/Wc is in the range of
0.2 to 0.3.
In one embodiment, the at least one precursor of the at least one ferrite
based compound is cobalt ferrite.
In one embodiment, the first fluid medium is water.
In one embodiment, a ratio of the first fluid medium to the silica in the
nano-encapuslated silica-ferrite system is in the range of 1 to 10,
preferably in the range of 3 to 7, more preferably the ratio is 4.
In one embodiment, the second fluid medium comprises a mixture of
water and ethanol.
In one embodiment, the second fluid medium is a mixture of water and
ethanol, wherein the weigth ratio of water to ethanol is in the range of 0.1
to 100.
                                      5 of 19

In one embodiment, the chelating agent is citric acid.
In one embodiment, the pH of the second mixture is adjusted by adding
liquor ammonia to obtain the pH adjusted mixture.
In one embodiment, the pH of the pH adjusted mixture is in the range of 1
to 9, at least above 2.3 and preferably around 8.
In one embodiment, the at least one precursor of the at least one silica
based compound is tetraethylorthosilicate.
In one embodiment, the predetermined stirring speed is in the range of
300 rpm to 500 rpm, preferably in the range of 350 rpm to 450 rpm, more
preferably the predetermined stirring speed is 400 rpm.
In one embodiment, the first predetermined temperature is in the range of
10 C to 50 C.
In one embodiment, the second predetermined temperature is in the
range of 42   OC  to 47 C.
In one embodiment, the third predetermined temperature is in the range of
100 OC to 250    OC, preferably in the range of 150 OC to 180  OC.
In one embodiment, the fourth predetermined temperature is in the range
of 800 OC to 1100    OC, preferably in the range of 850 OC to 1000 C.
In one embodiment, the first predetermined time period is in the range of
                                      6 of 19

1000 minutes to 1500 minutes.
In one embodiment, the second predetermined time period is in the range
of 60 minutes to 1500 minutes, preferably in the range of 120 minutes to
900 minutes, more preferably in the range of 360 minutes to 600 minutes.
In one embodiment, the particle size is in the range of 5 nm to 30 nm.
In another aspect, a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system is disclosed,
the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system comprises a core comprising
the at least one ferrite based compound, and a cladding surrounding the
core, wherein the cladding comprises the at least one silica based
compound, wherein the absolute difference between the density of core
and cladding is in the range of 1.0 g/cm 3 to 3.0 g/cm 3 .
In one embodiment, the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system is
characterized by a powder XRD pattern having peaks at 30.27, 35.32,
37.18, 43.28, 53.14, 57.10, 62.65, 74.07, 75.03, and 78.99 degrees 2
theta values.
In one embodiment, the at least one ferrite based compound is cobalt
ferrite.
In one embodiment, the at least one silica based compound is silicon di
oxide.
In one embodiment, a weight ratio of the amount of the at least one ferrite
                                   7 of 19

based compound to the at least one silica based compound is in the
range of 0.1 to 0.8, preferably in the range of 0.2 to 0.7, more preferably
in the range of 0.3 to 0.6, most preferably in the range of 0.33 to 0.54.
In one embodiment, the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system is
characterized by a value of merit of index (MOI) in the range of 0.1 to 2.4,
preferably in the range of 0.2 to 1.8, more preferably in the range of 0.3 to
1.5, wherein the value of merit of index is defined as product of the
absolute difference between the density of the at least one ferrite based
compound and the at least one silica based compound and the weight
ratio of the amount of the at least one ferrite based compound to the at
least one silica based compound.
In one embodiment, the average particle size of the nano-encapsulated
silica-ferrite system is in the range of 1 nm to 50 nm, preferably in the
range of 5 nm to 30 nm.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The present invention relates to a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system
and a process for preparing the same.
In one aspect a process for preparing a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite
system is disclosed.
                                    8 of 19

In accordance with the present invention, the process for preparing the
nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system includes the following steps that
are described at length below.
At least one precursor of at least one ferrite based compound is mixed in
a first fluid medium, while stirring at a predetermined stirring speed and at
a first predetermined temperature, to obtain a first mixture thereof.
Thereafter, a chelating agent, which acts as a fuel, is added to the first
mixture to obtain a second mixture. The chelating agent can be added to
the first mixture while stirring at ambient temperature (typically, at around
25 -C).
In one embodiment, the first fluid medium can be water, the at least one
precursor of the at least one ferrite based compound can be cobalt nitrate,
and the chelating agent can be citric acid.
In one embodiment, the predetermined stirring speed is in the range of
300 revolutions per minute (rpm) to 500 rpm, preferably in the range of
350 rpm to 450 rpm, more preferably the predetermined stirring speed is
400 rpm.
In one embodiment, the first predetermined temperature is in the range of
10    OC   to 50   OC. In another embodiment, the first predetermined
temperature is in the range of 20          OC to 40   C. Typically, the first
                                     9 of 19

predetermined temperature is 30 C.
In one embodiment, a weight ratio of the amount of the at least one
precursor of the at least one ferrite based compound to the amount of the
first fluid medium can be in the range of 10 % to 50 %. Preferably, the
weight ratio is in the range of 25 % to 35 %. Typically, the ratio is 30:70.
In one embodiment, a weight ratio of the amount of the chelating agent to
the amount of the at least one precursor of the at least one ferrite based
compound is in the range of 1:1 to 1:3.
The pH of the second mixture is adjusted to obtain a pH adjusted mixture.
It is necessary to adjust the pH of the second mixture, as the pH of the pH
second mixture controls the condensation and hydrolysis rates of the
reaction, which in turn controls the formation of the nano-encapsulated
silica-ferrite particles (the final product). In one embodiment, the pH of the
second mixture can be adjusted by adding liquor ammonia to obtain the
pH adjusted mixture. In one embodiment, the pH of the pH adjusted
mixture is in the range of 1 to 9, preferably, the pH is at least above 2.3
and preferably around 8. This is because, if pH is below 2.3 then, which is
referred to as the iso-electric point of silica, wherein silica has zero
charge, the cladding (silica compound) does not adheres to the core
compound. Hence, to have charged silica particles, the pH should be
greater than or equal to 2.3. Thus, pH of less than 2.3 is not preferred.
                                       10 of 19

Further, if the pH is above 8, then the balance between the rates of
condensation and hydrolysis is lost, which results in non-uniform nano
encapsulated       silica-ferrite particles  or   particles   without   silica
encapsulation. Therefore, the pH value should be in the range of 1 to 9,
preferably in the range of 2.3 to 8.
Further, the process of the present invention includes a step of preparing
a solution of at least one precursor of at least one silica based compound
in a second fluid medium to obtain a third mixture.
In one embodiment, the at least one precursor of the at least one silica
based compound can be tetraethylorthosilicate. The second fluid medium
is a solvent system. Typically, the second fluid medium comprises water
and ethanol. In one embodiment, the weight ratio of water to ethanol can
be in the range of 0.1 to 100. However, the ratio of the amount of water to
the amount of the ethanol depends on the weight ratio of the amount
water to the amount of the silica, wherein the amount of the silica is the
amount of the silica in the final product (silica-ferrite nano-particles).
Typically, the weight ratio of the amount of the water to the amount of the
silica is in the range of 3 to 5, preferably the weight ratio is 4. Ethanol is
specifically included to dissolve tetraethylorthosilicate. The second fluid
medium comprising water and ethanol behaves as a mutual solvent
between tetraethylorthosilicate and cobalt nitrate solution.
The third mixture is admixed with the pH adjusted mixture to obtain a
                                    11 of 19

fourth mixture, followed by heating the fourth mixture to a second
predetermined temperature while stirring for a first predetermined time
period to obtain a gel.
In one embodiment, the ratio of the amount of the third mixture to the pH
adjust mixture is in the range of 1 to 5 depending upon the amount of
water and ethanol. The second predetermined temperature is in the range
of 42 OC   to 47 OC, the stirring temperature is in the range of 300 rpm to
1000 rpm, and the first predetermined temperature is in the range of 1000
minutes to 1500 minutes.
The gel so obtained is heated to at a third predetermined temperature, for
a second predetermined time period, wherein the first fluid medium and
the second fluid medium are at least partially evaporated, to obtain a dried
complex substantially devoid of the first fluid medium and the second fluid
medium.
In one embodiment, the third predetermined temperature is in the range of
100  OC  to 250  OC,  preferably in the range of 150   OC to 180 OC. In one
embodiment, the second predetermined time period is in the range of 60
minutes to 1500 minutes, preferably in the range of 120 minutes to 900
minutes, more preferably in the range of 360 minutes to 600 minutes. The
second predetermined time period is dependent on the amount of the first
and second fluid medium present in the gel. It is necessary to reduce the
                                    12 of 19

amounts of the first fluid medium and the second fluid medium to a
minimum as the dry particles are formed only after the fluid media are
removed.
The dried complex so obtained is pulverized to obtain a pulverized
complex powder, having a particle size below a predetermined value. The
particle size can be in the range of 5 nm to 30 nm. The dried complex can
be pulverized employing any known pulverizing method such as motar
pestel, ball milling and the like.
Thereafter, the pulverized complex powder is sintered at a fourth
predetermined temperature, for a third predetermined time period, which
is greater than the third predetermined temperature to obtain a product
comprising the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system.
In one embodiment, the fourth predetermined temperature, that is the
sintering temperature, is in the range of 800 OC to 1100    OC, preferably in
the range of 850 C to 1000      OC.
In one embodiment, the process of the present invention is characterized
by a core-cladding formation index having a value in the range of 1.5 x
10 4 to 4.5 x 10 4 , wherein the core-cladding formation index is defined by
the formula:
                                    13 of 19

                            S   =9    xT +    P xT   x10-1
                                 R       s  We
wherein
     -  tg is first predetermined time period (gelation time),
     -  Tg is second predetermined temperature (gelation temperature);
     -  Ts is fourth predetermined temperature (sintering temperature);
     -  Tf is the firing temperature; and
     -  Sp/Wc is the weight ratio of the at least one silica based compound
        to the second fluid medium.
In one embodiment, tg is in the range of 1000 minutes to 1500 minutes,
Tg is in the range of 42     OC  to 47 C, Ts is in the range of 950   OC to 1150
 C, Tf is in the range of 180       OC to 200   OC, and Sp/Wc is in the range of
0.2 to 0.3.
The inventors of the present invention have found that the core-cladding
formation index having a value in the range of 1.5 to 4.5, results in nano
encapsulated silica-ferrite particles, wherein the ratio of the core to clad
material is in the optimum range so as to form the nano-encapsulated
silica-ferrite particles. Any deviation from this range of 1.5 to 4.5 affects
the core-shell structure formation process. It is observed that if the core
                                        14 of 19

cladding formation index is less than 1.5 then the condensation process
dominates the synthesis, the synthesis time decrease substantially, which
leads to incomplete reaction and consequently leads to formation of
imperfect    crystal structures    of the    nano-encapsulated     silica-ferrite
particles. This in turn means that the amorphous content of the final
product increases and the final product does not have the desired
properties. Further, if the core-cladding formation index is greater than 4.5
the hydrolysis process governs the synthesis reaction, which again results
in incomplete reaction, increased gelation time, reduced magnetization of
the final product, higher particle size, and contaminated final product. It is
further observed that the various parameters that are employed to define
the core-cladding formation index essentially ensure that the core and the
cladding of the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite particles have the desired
properties physical and chemical.
In one embodiment, a weight ratio of the first fluid medium to the silica in
the nano-encapuslated silica-ferrite system is in the range of 1 to 10,
preferably in the range of 3 to 7, more preferably the ratio is 4.
In another aspect, a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system is disclosed.
The nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system, as prepared by the process
as described in the present invention herein above, comprises a core
comprising the at least one ferrite based compound, and a cladding
surrounding the core, wherein the cladding comprises the at least one
                                     15 of 19

silica based compound, wherein the absolute difference between the
density of core and cladding is in the range of 1.0 g/cm 3 to 3.0 g/cm 3.
It is observed that the absolute difference between the density of core and
cladding is in the range of 1.0 g/cm 3 to 3.0 g/cm 3 ensure that the cladding
material does not peel off and/or does not alter the properties of ferrite
(core material) beyond desired range.
In one embodiment, the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system is
characterized by a powder XRD pattern having peaks at 30.27, 35.32,
37.18, 43.28, 53.14, 57.10, 62.65, 74.07, 75.03, and 78.99 degrees 2
theta values.
In one embodiment, the at least one ferrite based compound is cobalt
ferrite.
In one embodiment, the at least one silica based compound is silicon di
oxide.
In one embodiment, the weight ratio of the amount of the at least one
ferrite based compound to the at least one silica based compound is in
the range of 0.1 to 0.8, preferably in the range of 0.2 to 0.7, more
preferably in the range of 0.3 to 0.6, most preferably in the range of 0.33
to 0.54.
In one embodiment, the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system, as
                                    16 of 19

prepared by the process of the present invention and described herein
above, is characterized by a value of merit of index in the range of 0.1 to
2.4, preferably in the range of 0.2 to 1.8, more preferably in the range of
0.3 to 1.5, wherein the value of merit of index is defined as product of the
absolute difference between the density of the at least one ferrite based
compound and the at least one silica based compound and the weight
ratio of the amount of the at least one ferrite based compound to the at
least one silica based compound.
It is observed that if the merit of index is greater thatn 2.4, then ... , and if
the merit of index is less than 0.1 then ... [let us think of some reason
here].
In embodiment, the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system as claimed in
any of the preceding claims, wherein an average particle size of the nano
encapsulated silica-ferrite system is in the range of 1 nm to 50 nm,
preferably in the range of 5 nm to 30 nm.
Experiments:
The present invention is now described with the following experiments
which are for the purpose of explaining and understanding the present
invention and these laboratory scale experiments can be extrapolated to
production scale or commercial scale by person skilled in the art by
employing suitable extrapolating techniques, which are not described
                                     17 of 19

herein for sake of brevity and simplicity and not to obscure the present
invention.
Experiment: An experiment was performed employing the process of the
present invention as described herein above in the detailed description.
The core-cladding formation index was 3.0 and the other related details
are provided in the table herein below.
Experiment in accordance with the present invention:
              Precursor          Chelating     First   fluid Second
     [and amount in grams]       agent         medium        fluid
        Core         Cladding    [grams]       [grams]       medium
                                                             [grams]
   Cobalt hexa-        TEOS       Citric acid     Ethanol        Water
       nitrate
       2.4808         10.4019       4.9131       230.0280      170.9061
        Ferric
  nonanhydrate
       6.8876
                              Temperature [OC]
        First        Second         Third         Fourth         Firing
         30             30           45            900            180
It is observed that for the core-cladding formation index of 3.0, the silica
ferrite nano-encapsulated particles were formed having the desired
properties.
Further, the nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite particles were subjected to
                                   18 of 19

XRD analysis, wherein it is found that the particles are characterized by a
powder XRD pattern having peaks at 30.27, 35.32, 37.18, 43.28, 53.14,
57.10, 62.65, 74.07, 75.03, and 78.99 degrees 2 theta values.
ADVANCES        AND      ECONOMICAL         SIGNIFICANCE         OF     THE
PRESENTLY DISCLOSED INVENTION
The presently disclosed invention, as described herein above, provides
several advances including, but that are not limited to, the realization of a
process for preparation of a silica-ferrite system that is efficient and
economical.
                                 19 of 19

We Claim:
1. A process for preparing a nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system, said
   process comprising the following steps:
   -  providing at least one precursor of at least one ferrite based compound;
   -  mixing the at least one precursor of at least one ferrite based compound
      in a first fluid medium, at a predetermined stirring speed and a first
      predetermined temperature, to obtain a first mixture thereof;
   -  adding a chelating agent to said first mixture to obtain a second mixture;
   -  adjusting the pH of said second mixture to obtain a pH adjusted mixture;
   -  preparing a solution of at least one precursor of at least one silica based
      compound in a second fluid medium to obtain a third mixture;
   -  adding said third mixture to said pH adjusted mixture to obtain a fourth
      mixture;
   -  heating and stirring said fourth mixture for a first predetermined time
      period and at a second predetermined temperature to obtain a gel;
   -  heating said gel at a third predetermined temperature, for a second
      predetermined time period, wherein said first fluid medium and said
      second fluid medium are at least partially evaporated, to obtain a dried
      complex substantially devoid of said first fluid medium and said second
                                               1

       fluid medium;
   -   pulverizing said dried complex to obtain a pulverized complex powder,
       having a particle size below a predetermined value; and
   -   sintering said pulverized complex powder at a fourth predetermined
       temperature, for a third predetermined time period, which is greater than
       said third predetermined temperature to obtain a product comprising said
       nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system.
2. The process as claimed in claim 1, characterized by a core-cladding
   formation index having a value in the range of 1.5 to 4.5, wherein said core
   cladding formation index is defined by the formula:
                               SR   t gx   +  PxTf x10-4
   wherein
       -    tg is first predetermined time period (gelation time),
       -    Tg is second predetermined temperature (gelation temperature);
       -    Ts is fourth predetermined temperature (sintering temperature);
       -    Tf is the firing temperature; and
       -    Sp/Wc is the weight ratio of the at least one silica based compound to
            the second fluid medium.
3. The process as claimed in claim 2, wherein said:
                                                 2

      -    tg is in the range of 1000 minutes to 1500 minutes;
      -    Tg is in the range of 42 C to 47 0C;
      -    Ts is in the range of 950 C to 1150 C;
      -    Tf is in the range of 180 C to 200 0C; and
      -    Sp/Wc is in the range of 0.2 to 0.3.
4. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the following
   condition is satisfied:
      -    said at least one precursor of said at least one ferrite based
           compound is cobalt ferrite;
      -    said first fluid medium is water;
      -    a ratio of said first fluid medium to said silica in said nano
           encapuslated silica-ferrite system is in the range of 1 to 10, preferably
           in the range of 3 to 7, more preferably the ratio is 4;
      -    said second fluid medium comprises a mixture of water and ethanol;
      -    said second fluid medium is a mixture of water and ethanol, wherein
           the weigth ratio of water to ethanol is in the range of 0.1 to 100;
      -    said chelating agent is citric acid;
      -    said pH of said second mixture is adjusted by adding liquor ammonia
                                                3

           to obtain said pH adjusted mixture;
      -    said pH of said pH adjusted mixture is in the range of 1 to 9, at least
           above 2.3 and preferably around 8; and
      -    said at least one precursor of said at least one silica based compound
           is tetraethylorthosilicate.
5. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the following
   conditions is satisfied:
      -    said predetermined stirring speed is in the range of 300 rpm to 500
           rpm, preferably in the range of 350 rpm to 450 rpm, more preferably
           said predetermined stirring speed is 400 rpm;
      -    said first predetermined temperature is in the range of 10 OC to 50  0C;
      -    said second predetermined temperature is in the range of 42 OC to 47
            C;
      -    said third predetermined temperature is in the range of 100    0C to 250
            C, preferably in the range of 150  0C  to 180  0C;
      -    said fourth predetermined temperature is in the range of 800       0C  to
           1100   0C, preferably in the range of 850  0C to 1000 0C;
      -    said first predetermined time period is in the range of 1000 minutes to
           1500 minutes; and
                                                 4

       -    said second predetermined time period is in the range of 60 minutes
            to 1500 minutes, preferably in the range of 120 minutes to 900
            minutes, more preferably in the range of 360 minutes to 600 minutes.
6. The process as claimed any of the preceding claims, wherein said particle
   size is in the range of 5 nm to 30 nm.
7. A nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system, obtained by the process as
   claimed in any of the preceding claims, said nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite
   system comprising:
            a core comprising said at least one ferrite based compound; and
            a cladding surrounding said core, wherein said cladding comprises
            said at least one silica based compound;
            wherein the absolute difference between the density of core and
            cladding is in the range of 1.0 to 3.0 g/cm 3.
8. The nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system as claimed in claim 7, wherein at
   least one of the following condition is satisfied:
       -    said nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system is characterized by a
            powder XRD pattern having peaks at 30.27, 35.32, 37.18, 43.28,
            53.14, 57.10, 62.65, 74.07, 75.03, and 78.99 degrees 2 theta values;
       -    said at least one ferrite based compound is cobalt ferrite;
                                                  5

         -  said at least one silica based compound is silicon di-oxide; and
         -  the weight ratio of the amount of said at least one ferrite based
            compound to said at least one silica based compound is in the range
            of 0.1 to 0.8, preferably in the range of 0.2 to 0.7, more preferably in
            the range of 0.3 to 0.6, most preferably in the range of 0.33 to 0.54.
9. The nano-encapsulated          silica-ferrite system as claimed in claim 7,
    characterized by a value of merit of index in the range of 0.1 to 2.4, preferably
    in the range of 0.2 to 1.8, more preferably in the range of 0.3 to 1.5,
    wherein said value of merit of index is defined as product of the absolute
    difference between the density of said at least one ferrite based compound
    and said at least one silica based compound and the weight ratio of the
    amount of said at least one ferrite based compound to said at least one silica
    based compound.
10. The nano-encapsulated silica-ferrite system as claimed in any of the
    preceding claims, wherein          an average particle size of said nano
    encapsulated silica-ferrite system is in the range of 1 nm to 50 nm, preferably
    in the range of 5 nm to 30 nm.
                                                   6

