                                      ABSTRACT
A fecal catheter comprising an odor barrier material, comprising a thermoplastic
elastomer, an odor barrier modifier and an antiblocking agent. The thermoplastic
elastomer is selected from a group including a styrenic block copolymer, a
thermoplastic vulcanizate, and a polyolefin elastomer. The odor barrier modifier is
selected from polyisobutene, polybutene, or an organoclay. The antiblocking agent is
selected from a group including substantially inorganic fillers, including silica, talc, clay,
and mica. The antiblocking agent imparts an interior rough surface having an
arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm. The fecal catheter is
non-blocking upon folding and packaging.

         HIGH BARRIER ELASTOMER FECAL CATHETER OR OSTOMY POUCH
          The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
  Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application from Australian Patent
  Application No. 2012313393, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
  reference.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          The present invention relates to an odor barrier material for a fecal catheter, a
  fecal pouch, or an ostomy pouch.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          Fecal catheters have occasionally been criticized for the transmission of fecal
  odor through the tubular walls.
          A possible cause of the poor odor barrier is the silicone material of which these
  devices are composed. The odor barrier of silicone is known to be one of the worst
  among polymer materials. For example, the oxygen transmission rate of silicone has
  been reported to be 775,000 cc mil/m 2 /day. Therefore, a 20 mil thick silicone catheter
  is about 3 orders of magnitude worse than a commonly used ostomy film having a
  transmission rate of 50 cc/m 2 /day or less.
          Another possible explanation for silicone fecal catheter having poor odor barrier
  is that the extruded silicone utilized in such devices is relatively rough and as a result
  could trap fecal components. The contours of the spots trapping the fecal material
  provide substantial surface area, through which odor is transmitted.
          The combination of high odor transmission rate and large surface area
  contributes to the poor odor barrier characteristics of the silicone used in fecal
  catheters.
5          It would be desirable to develop a material to be used in a fecal catheter that
  has the desirable characteristics of silicone while providing an odor barrier
  substantially better than that of silicone.
           It would also be desirable to provide an odor barrier polymer having these
  characteristics.
0         A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior
  art, is not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or
                                                 1

  that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the
  priority date of any of the claims.
          Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
  "comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
  interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
  components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers,
  steps or components.
                              DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
          Thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) or curable elastomer is well known for use in
  medical devices. However, these elastomers are not known to exhibit high odor barrier
  properties. The present invention may provide the modification of elastomer to achieve
  a high odor barrier while maintaining its softness, ability for post extrusion converting
  (welding and bonding) and non-blocking characteristics.
           In one aspect, the present invention provides a fecal catheter comprising an
  odor barrier material, comprising: i) a thermoplastic elastomer selected from a group
  including a styrenic block copolymer, a thermoplastic vulcanizate, and a polyolefin
  elastomer; ii) an odor barrier modifier selected from polyisobutene, polybutene, or an
  organoclay; and iii) an antiblocking agent selected from a group including substantially
  inorganic fillers, including silica, talc, clay, and mica; and wherein the antiblocking
  agent imparts an interior rough surface having an arithmetic mean surface roughness
  (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the fecal catheter is non-blocking upon folding and
  packaging.
           In another aspect, the present invention provides a fecal catheter comprising an
  odor barrier material, comprising: i) a thermoplastic elastomer selected from a group
5 including a styrenic block copolymer, a thermoplastic vulcanizate, and a polyolefin
  elastomer; ii) an odor barrier modifier selected from polyisobutene, polybutene, or an
  organoclay; and iii) an antiblocking agent selected from a group including substantially
  inorganic fillers, including silica, talc, clay, and mica, said odor barrier material having a
  Shore A hardness of 60 or less; and wherein the antiblocking agent imparts an interior
0 rough surface having an arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm,
  wherein the fecal catheter is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
           In another aspect, the present invention provides an ostomy pouch comprising
  an odor barrier material, comprising: i) a thermoplastic elastomer selected from a
                                                   1a

  group including a styrenic block copolymer, a thermoplastic vulcanizate, and a
  polyolefin elastomer; ii) an odor barrier modifier selected from polyisobutene,
  polybutene, or an organoclay; and iii) an antiblocking agent selected from a group
  including substantially inorganic fillers, including silica, talc, clay, and mica; and
  wherein the antiblocking agent imparts an interior rough surface having an arithmetic
  mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the ostomy pouch is non
  blocking upon folding and packaging.
          In another aspect, the present invention provides a fecal catheter comprising an
  odor barrier material, comprising: an elastomer selected from a group including
  silicone, polyurethane, styrenic block copolymer, thermoplastic vulcanizate, and
  polyolefin elastomer; and a nanocomposite filler material coated on or present within
  said elastomer so as to provide an odor barrier; said elastomer and nanocomposite
  forming a soft catheter tube having a Shore A hardness of not more than 60; and
  wherein the fecal catheter comprises an interior rough surface having an arithmetic
  mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the fecal catheter is non
  blocking upon folding and packaging.
          In another aspect, the present invention provides a fecal catheter comprising an
  odor barrier material, comprising: an elastomer substrate comprising a zeolite
  containing coating on said elastomer substrate; said elastomer substrate and zeolite
  forming a soft catheter tube having a Shore A hardness of not more than 60; and
  wherein the fecal catheter comprises an interior rough surface having an arithmetic
  mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, such that the fecal catheter is non
  blocking upon folding and packaging.
          In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a fecal catheter comprising
5 an odor barrier material, comprising: a silicone tube; at least one layer of
  nanocomposite coating on said tube; and at least one layer of a silane coupling agent;
  said coated tube having an oxygen transmission rate no more than 20,000 cc/m 2 /day;
  and wherein the fecal catheter comprises an interior rough surface having an
  arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the fecal
o catheter is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
                                                 1b

            One embodiment of the present invention related to single layer of catheter
    made from a high barrier elastomer such that the odor barrier measured by oxygen
    transmission rate per ASTM D3985 is not more than 50,000 cc mil/m 2 /day at 23*C,
    or more preferably not more than 5,000 cc mil/m 2 /day. Such a catheter is at least 10
 5  times better in odor barrier than the silicone catheter.
            U.S. Pat. No. 6,946,522, 7,056,971, and 7,060,753 disclosed the use of a
    liquid polyisobutene oil plasticizer to improve the gas barrier of the TPE. However,
   these formulations, especially when targeting a soft elastomer, i.e., Shore A less
    than 60, creates a blocking issue in which the surface of TPE catheter seals against
 0  each other upon folding and packaging. The use of a higher amount of oil plasticizer
   would allow a softer TPE, but it comes with an adverse effect in an oily surface,
    resulting in poor post-extrusion converting (welding and bonding). In addition, the
   TPE based on an olefin block copolymer (OBC, such as Infuse TM made by Dow) was
    not disclosed. Although common approaches exist to minimize the blocking,
 5  including adding mineral oil or slip additives. These approaches; however, have
   drawbacks in that they prevent the parts from being further converted into a fecal
   catheter due to their adverse effects on the surface bonding. U.S. Pat. No.
   7,629,406 disclosed the use of an organoclay at a concentration less than 4% to
   improve the barrier properties of high density polyethyelene (HDPE). However, the
 0 use of organoclay in a TPE was not mentioned with a Shore A hardness not more
   than 60, or preferably not more than 50.
            Another embodiment of the present invention is related to a fecal catheter,
   having a Shore A hardness not more than 60 and an oxygen transmission rate not
   more than 2,500 cc/m2/day or preferably not more than 1,000 cc/m 2 /day, comprising
25 (1) a thermoplastic elastomer, (2) odor barrier modifier, and (3) an antiblocking agent
   of at least 0.1%, wherein thermoplastic elastomer is selected from the group
   consisting of a styrenic block copolymer, a thermoplastic vulcanizate, or a polyolefin
   elastomer, and wherein odor barrier modifier is selected from the group consisting of
   polyisobutene, polybutene, or an organoclay, and wherein the antiblocking agent is
;0 selected from the group consisting of an essentially inorganic fillers, such as silica,
   talc, clay, mica, etc. and blends thereof. It is noted organoclays can be used in one
   embodiment as both the odor barrier modifier and as the antiblocking agent.
   Organoclays include montmorillonite clay, smectite clay, intercalated clay, nanoclay,
                                                2

   or a mixture of above. Organoclay described in this invention includes
   montmorillonite clay, made by Nanocor, which is the most common member of the
   smectite clay family. Organoclay may consist of nanoclay with a unique morphology
   such that one dimension is in the nanometer range. In addition, organoclay is
 5 preferred to be intercalated with an organic intercalant resulting in a clay-chemical
   complex wherein the clay gallery spacing has increased due to the process of
   surface modification. Under the proper conditions of temperature and shear, an
   intercalate is capable of exfoliating in a resin matrix. Optionally, the following
   additives can be used to facilitate the manufacturing of catheter extrusion, including
 0 melt viscosity modifier, tackifier, detackifier, plasticizer, etc.
            Styrenic block copolymer (SBC) based thermoplastic elastomer includes
   styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS), styrene-butadiene-styrene (SBS), styrene
   etheylene/butylene-styrene (SEBS), styrene-etheylene/propylene-styrene (SEPS),
   and blends thereof. Thermoplastic vulcanizate (TPV) includes a blend of curable
 5 rubber and a polyolefin (i.e., PP or PE, homopolymers and copolymers). Curable
   rubbers include EPDM, EP rubber, santoprene, etc. A polyolefin elastomer includes
   an olefin block copolymer (OBC), such as Infuse made by Dow, where a crystalline
   phase of a olefin block copolymer acted as hard blocks, and the amorphous block
   copolymer acted as soft blocks within the same polymer matrix. The following is a
 0 summary of odor barrier as measured by oxygen transmission rate at 23'C per
   ASTM D3985:
                  Table 1 - Odor Barrier Comparison of Various Elastomers without
                                    Organoclays or zeolites
!5
                  Silicone    SBC          TPV          OBC           SBC w/      SBC w/
                                                                      polyisobute polyisobutene
                                                                      ne          and Organoclay
   OTR,           37,500      2,500 -      2,500        2,500         1,000       250
   cc/m2/day,                 4,500
   20 mil thick
   wall, ASTM
   D3985
   Onion          Very poor,  Poor,        Poor,        Poor,         Better,     Good, not
                                                 3

    Barrier,       detectable   detectable   detectable detectable detectable detectable for 8
    ISO 8670-3     in 10        in 60        in 60      in 60      in 120     hrs
                   minutes      minutes      minutes    minutes    minutes
             When antiblocking agent, at least 0.1% or more preferably more than 0.5%,
   was added to a high barrier elastomer formulation containing a SBC thermoplastic
   elastomer and a liquid polyisobutene, an odor barrier in the range of around 1000
 5 cc/m 2 /day was achieved for making a non-blocking fecal catheter. This level of odor
    barrier improvement was confirmed by an onion test per ISO 8670-3 such that the
   onion odor breakthrough was longer than 120 minutes. Additional barrier
    improvement was seen in fecal catheter made from PTE containing a SBC
   thermoplastic elastomer, a liquid polyisobutene, an organoclay. In this example,
 0 onion odor breakthrough was longer than 8 hours. The results of both oxygen
   barrier and onion barrier were shown in Table 1.
             Another embodiment of the present invention is a fecal catheter based on a
   multilayer structure, wherein at least one layer is selected from a high barrier
   elastomer described above without any antiblocking agent, and at least another skin
 5 layer is selected from the group consisting of (1) same high barrier elastomer
   described above with at least 0.1 % of antiblocking agent, or an elastomer alloy with
   or without the use of antiblocking agent. An elastomer alloy is defined as a blend of
   two polymer matrixes which are incompatible in a molecular level. The advantage of
   antiblocking agent is to impart a rough surface so that the catheter is not blocking.
.0 The advantage of an elastomer alloy is that the incompatibility in a molecular level
   creates a roughness on the catheter surface, giving rise to a non-blocking catheter.
   In addition, common materials to add for an elastomer alloy include, but not limited
   to, thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). Due to a more polar structure in TPU, the
   subsequent converting of an elastomer alloy is easier. Since the majority of the
!5 catheter structure is provided by a high barrier elastomer, the odor barrier and the
   softness is maintained based on the disclosure above. Because both the center
   layer and the skin layer are elastomers based, the adhesion between the layers of a
   fecal catheter is sufficiently good.
             Besides the addition of anti-blocking agent, cold processing conditions can be
 0 utilized to enhance a rough surface of the catheter wall so that the catheter is not
   blocking. The effect of anti-blocking agent and/or cold processing conditions is a
                                                   4

   rough surface that could be characterized by surface roughness using a non-contact
   surface structure analyzer, such as Scanning White Light interferomtry (SWLI),
   Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM), etc. A non-contact imaging surface structure
   analyzer based on SWLI is made by Zygo NewView 7300. A non-contact atomic
5  force microscopy can be made by FEI. A typical parameter that has been used to
   quantify the quality of a surface topography is the surface roughness, which is
   represented by the arithmetic mean value, Ra. In this invention disclosure, a rough
   surface with Ra not less than 0.1 pm or preferably not less than 1 pm when
   antiblocking agent is used with or without a cold processing temperature, resulted in
0  a non-blocking fecal catheter.
            An important characteristic about the formulation described in this invention is
   its ability to be post-extrusion converted, both by welding and adhesive bonding.
  Greater than 5 N/in adhesive strength and heat weld strength was achieved.
            Another embodiment of the present invention is related to the use of
5 organoclays and/or zeolites to improve the odor barrier of the elastomer catheter.
  For example, a single layer of catheter can be made from an organoclay-containing
  elastomer selected from the group consisting of silicone, polyurethane, styrenic block
  copolymer, thermoplastic vulcanizate, or polyolefin elastomer with a Shore A
  hardness not more than 60, or more preferably not more than 50.
0           The use of nanocomposite (nanoclays) fillers to improve the odor barrier is not
  new. The addition of nanocomposite fillers creates the tortuous path for the odor
  causing compounds; thus improving the odor barrier for the substrate. There are
  various nanocomposite containing coating, additives, or polymers marketed by
  various companies, such as Nanocor, Nanoresin, Southern Clays, Nano-X, Inmat,
5 etc. Since nanocomposites are mostly clay based, it is relatively rigid. Therefore,
  the challenges of using nanocomposite fillers in FMS application are two fold, (1) the
  difficulty in the wetting and adhesion of the nanocomposite fillers or coating onto the
  silicone tubing, and (2) the odor barrier property upon flexing. Therefore, the
  uniqueness of this invention is the formulation of a soft tube with a completely
0 covered, and/or relatively uniformly dispersed nanocomposite containing catheter
  which would not crack upon flexing. Such a soft nanoclay-containing catheter is
  characterized with a Shore A hardness not more than 60, or more preferably not
  more than 50.
                                               5

           Another embodiment of the present invention is related to single layer of
    catheter made from a zeolite-containing elastomer selected from the group
    consisting of silicone, polyurethane, styrenic block copolymer, thermoplastic
    vulcanizate, or polyolefin elastomer with a Shore A hardness not more than 60, or
 5  more preferably not more than 50.
           The addition of zeolite creates the tortuous paths and sites to adsorb the odor
    causing compounds; thus improving the odor barrier for the substrate. There are
   various zeolites marketed by various companies, such as UOP. Since zeolites are
    hard fillers, they produce rigidity when used. Therefore, the challenges of using
 0 zeolites in FMS application are two fold, (1) the difficulty in the wetting and adhesion
   of the zeolite coating onto the silicone tubing, and (2) the odor barrier property upon
   flexing. Therefore, the uniqueness of this invention is the formulation of a soft tube
   with relatively uniform zeolite-containing elastomeric catheter which would not crack
   upon flexing. Such a soft zeolite-containing catheter is characterized with a Shore A
 5  hardness not more than 60, or more preferably not more than 50.
           Another embodiment of the present invention is related to an organoclay
   containing coating onto an elastomer substrate selected from the group consisting of
   silicone, polyurethane, styrenic block copolymer, thermoplastic vulcanizate, or
   polyolefin elastomer with a Shore A hardness not more than 60, or more preferably
 0  not more than 50.
           Another embodiment of the present invention is related to a zeolite-containing
   coating onto an elastomer substrate selected from the group consisting of silicone,
   polyurethane, styrenic block copolymer, thermoplastic vulcanizate, or polyolefin
   elastomer with a Shore A hardness not more than 60, or more preferably not more
25 than 50.
           A series of experiments were conducted as described below. A total of four
   different nanocomposites were evaluated, two from Southern Clay and two from
   Nanocor. Two types of coating matrix were used, silicone and polyurethane. The
   following is a summary of these findings:
30
           Exp. #1: Silicone coating consisting of nanocomposites:
          2.5% of the following nanocomposites were added into a two-part silicone
   made by Nusil 6350, including
                                               6

            (1) Southern Clay Cloisite Na+, Hydrated Aluminum Silicate,
            (2) Southern Clay Cloisite 15A, Ammonium salts with Bentonite,
            (3) Nanocor 1.30E (Octadecyl ammonium surface compatabilized
   montmorillonite), and
 5          (4) Nanocor 1.34 TCN (methyl, bis hydroxyethyl octadecyl ammonium surface
   compatabilized montmorillonite).
           The two-part silicone was applied onto the silicone catheter as a coating, and
   was then heat cured at 130 deg C for 30 minutes. The coated catheter was then
   tested for onion odor barrier per ISO 8670-3:2000. About 5 grams of onion was
 0 chopped and filled inside a 12 cm long coated silicone tubing (i.e., catheter).
   Nanocomposite           None         Cloisite    Cloisite    Nanocor     Nanocor
                                        NA+         15A         1.30E       1.34TCN
   Coating Matrix,         Silicone     Silicone    Silicone    Silicone    Silicone
   Nusil 6350
   Substrate,              Silicone     Silicone    Silicone    Silicone    Silicone
   Dow Coming C6-135
   Onset of Onion Smell    5 minutes   45 minutes   45 minutes  90 minutes  60 minutes
           As can be seen, the addition of 2.5% nanocomposites in a silicone coating
   improves the onion odor barrier in the silicone tubing. The control with a silicone
 5 coating had an onset of onion odor outside of the closed silicone tubing at around 5
   minutes. This is about the same as the silicone tube without any coating. After a
   silicone coating consisting of 2.5% nanocomposites was applied onto a silicone tube,
   the onset of the onion odor was extended to 45 - 90 minutes.
!0         Exp. #2:Polyurethane coating consisting of nanocomposites, without primer:
           2.5% of the following nanocomposites were added into a two-part
   polyurethane made by Smooth-On, Vytaflex 30, including
           (1) Southern Clay Cloisite Na+, Hydrated Aluminum Silicate,
15         (2) Southern Clay Cloisite 15A, Ammonium salts with Bentonite,
           (3) Nanocor 1.30E (Octadecyl ammonium surface compatabilized
   montmorillonite), and
                                                 7

           (4) Nanocor 1.34TCN (methyl, bis hydroxyethyl octadecyl ammonium surface
   compatabilized montmorillonite).
           The two-part polyurethane was applied onto the silicone catheter as a coating,
   and was then room temperature cured for 6 hours. The coated catheter was then
 5 tested for onion odor barrier per ISO 8670-3:2000. About 5 grams of onion was
   chopped and filled inside a 12 cm long coated silicone tubing (i.e., catheter).
   Nanocomposite       None          Cloisite     Cloisite 15A Nanocor      Nanocor
                                     NA+                       1.30E         1.34TCN
   Coating Matrix,     Polyurethane  Polyurethane Polyurethane Polyurethane Polyurethane
   Vytaflex 30
   Primer,             No            No           No           No           No
   Dow Coming 1200
   Substrate,          Silicone      Silicone     Silicone     Silicone      Silicone
   Dow Coming C6
   135
   Onset of Onion      30 minutes    6 hours      6 hours      > 12 hours   > 12 hours
   Smell
           As can be seen, the addition of 2.5% nanocomposites significantly improves
 0 the onion odor barrier. The control with a polyurethane coating, but without any
   nanocomposites, was able to extend the onset of onion odor outside of the closed
   silicone tubing from 5 minutes to 30 minutes. After a polyurethane coating
   consisting of 2.5% nanocomposites was applied onto a silicone tube, the onset of the
   onion odor was extended to 6 - 12 hours. Despite of the odor barrier improvement,
15 the coating adhesion was poor.
           Exp. #3: Polyurethane coating consisting of nanocomposites, with primer:
           The same set of experiment as Exp. #2 was repeated with the use of a silane
20 primer, Dow Corning 1200. The same level of onion odor improvement was
   observed. That is, after a polyurethane coating consisting of 2.5% nanocomposites
   was applied onto a silicone tube primed with a silane, the onset of the onion odor
   was extended from 30 minutes in the control without any nanocomposites to 6 - 12
   hours. The polyurethane coating stuck well to the silicone tube, and was able to
25 resist the flex.
                                                8

   Nanocomposite         None          Cloisite        Cloisite 15A  Nanocor         Nanocor
                                       NA+                           1.30E           1.34TCN
   Coating Matrix,       Polyurethane  Polyurethane    Polyurethane  Polyurethane    Polyurethane
   Vytaflex 30
   Primer,               Yes            Yes            Yes           Yes             Yes
   Dow Corning 1200
   Substrate,            Silicone       Silicone        Silicone     Silicone        Silicone
   Dow Coming C6
    135
   Onset of Onion        30 minutes     6.5 hours       6 hours      > 12 hours      > 12 hours
   Smell
           Exp. #4: Nanocomposites in a silicone slab:
           2% of Nanocor 1.30E was added to make into a 1 mm thick (i.e., 40 mil)
 5 silicone gel slab, Nusil 6350. Onion barrier was compared on silicone slab with and
   without the nanocomposite per ISO 8670-3:2000.
                                    1 mm thick silicone slab without 1 mm thick silicone slab with
                                    nanocomposites (control)         2% Nanocor 1.30E
         Onset of Onion Smell                  5 - 10 minutes                   60 minutes
           As a result, the addition of 2% of Nanocor 1.30E improved the onion odor
 0 barrier of the silicone slab from 5 minutes to about 60 minutes.
           Another embodiment of the present invention is an improved odor barrier fecal
   catheter, having a Hardness of less than Shore A 60, comprising at least (a) one
   layer of a silane coupling agent, and (b) at least one layer of nanocomposite coating.
15 This formulation, when applied onto a silicone fecal catheter, would result in an
   oxygen transmission rate no more than 20,000 cc/m2/day, or preferably, no more
   than 10,000 cc//m2/day, or more preferably no more than 5,000 cc/m2/day. A
   silicone tube without the use of silane coupling agent and without the nanocomposite
   coating has an oxygen permeation rate of around 37,500 cc/m2/day. A silicone with
20 the nanocomposite coating, but without the silane coupling agent, has an oxygen
   permeation rate of close to 30,000 - 35,000 cc/m2/day due to the lack of bonding.
   Alternatively, the same formulation can be applied onto a thermoplastic elastomer
                                                    9

  (TPE) or a polyurethane tubing (PU), having a Hardness of less than Shore A 60,
  such that the gas barrier is improved to no more than 25,000 cc/m2/day, or
  preferably, no more than 10,000 cc/m2/day, or more preferably no more than 5,000
  cc/m2/day.
5
         The materials described in this invention can be used as a fecal catheter. A
  fecal pouch is commonly connected to a fecal catheter in use. The same materials
  described for fecal catheter were used to make a fecal pouch. Similar odor barrier
  characteristics against oxygen transmission and onion odor shown in Table 1 were
0 obtained in the lab. Thus, besides a fecal catheter, the same material construction
  could be used for an ostomy pouch.
                                            10

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A fecal catheter comprising an odor barrier material, comprising:
       i)       a thermoplastic elastomer selected from a group including a styrenic
block copolymer, a thermoplastic vulcanizate, and a polyolefin elastomer;
       ii)      an odor barrier modifier selected from polyisobutene, polybutene, or an
organoclay; and
       iii)     an antiblocking agent selected from a group including substantially
inorganic fillers, including silica, talc, clay, and mica; and
       wherein the antiblocking agent imparts an interior rough surface having an
arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the fecal
catheter is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
2.     The fecal catheter of claim 1 wherein the styrenic block copolymer includes
styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS), styrene-butadiene-styrene (SBS), styrene
etheylene/butylene-styrene (SEBS), styrene-etheylene/propylene-styrene (SEPS), or a
blend of above.
3.     The fecal catheter of claims 1 or 2 wherein the thermoplastic vulcanizate
includes a blend of curable rubber and a polyolefin.
4.     The fecal catheter of claim 3 wherein said polyolefin is polyethylene and
polypropylene, including homopolymers and copolymers thereof.
5.     The fecal catheter of claims 3 or 4 wherein the curable rubber is selected from a
group including ethylene propylene diene Monomer (EPDM), ethylene propylene
rubber, and santoprene and blends thereof.
6.     The fecal catheter of any one of the preceding claims wherein the polyolefin
elastomer includes an olefin block copolymer wherein a crystalline phase of olefin
block copolymer acts as hard blocks and an amorphous block copolymer acts as soft
blocks.
7.     The fecal catheter of any one of the preceding claims wherein the organoclay
includes montmorillonite clay, smectite clay, intercalated clay, nanoclay, or a mixture of
above.
                                                 11

8.      The fecal catheter of any one of the preceding claims wherein the oxygen
barrier transmission rate per ASTM D3985 is 1000 cc/m 2 /day or less at 230C.
9.      The fecal catheter of any one of the preceding claims having a Shore A
hardness of 60 or less.
10.     The fecal catheter of any one of the preceding claims wherein the surface of the
fecal catheter can be bonded with an adhesive having an adhesive strength greater
than 5 N/in.
11.     The fecal catheter of any one of the preceding claims wherein the surface of the
fecal catheter can be heat welded having a weld strength greater than 5 N/in.
12.     A fecal catheter comprising an odor barrier material, comprising:
        i)      a thermoplastic elastomer selected from a group including a styrenic
block copolymer, a thermoplastic vulcanizate, and a polyolefin elastomer;
        ii)     an odor barrier modifier selected from polyisobutene, polybutene, or an
organoclay; and
        iii)    an antiblocking agent selected from a group including substantially
inorganic fillers, including silica, talc, clay, and mica, said odor barrier material having a
Shore A hardness of 60 or less; and
        wherein the antiblocking agent imparts an interior rough surface having an
arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the fecal
catheter is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
13.     The fecal catheter of claim 12, wherein the arithmetic mean surface roughness
(Ra) is not less than 1 pm.
14.     The fecal catheter of claims 12 or 13 wherein the oxygen barrier transmission
rate per ASTM D3985 is 1000 cc/m 2 /day or less at 230C.
15.     An ostomy pouch comprising an odor barrier material, comprising:
        i)      a thermoplastic elastomer selected from a group including a styrenic
block copolymer, a thermoplastic vulcanizate, and a polyolefin elastomer;
        ii)     an odor barrier modifier selected from polyisobutene, polybutene, or an
organoclay; and
                                                 12

        iii)    an antiblocking agent selected from a group including substantially
inorganic fillers, including silica, talc, clay, and mica; and
        wherein the antiblocking agent imparts an interior rough surface having an
arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the ostomy
pouch is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
16.     A fecal catheter comprising an odor barrier material, comprising:
                an elastomer selected from a group including silicone, polyurethane,
styrenic block copolymer, thermoplastic vulcanizate, and polyolefin elastomer; and
                a nanocomposite filler material coated on or present within said
elastomer so as to provide an odor barrier; said elastomer and nanocomposite forming
a soft catheter tube having a Shore A hardness of not more than 60; and
                wherein the fecal catheter comprises an interior rough surface having an
arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the fecal
catheter is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
17.     The fecal catheter of claim 16 wherein said catheter tube does not crack upon
flexing.
18.     The fecal catheter of claims 16 or 17 wherein said tube is extruded and may be
converted both by welding and adhesive bonding.
19.     A fecal catheter comprising an odor barrier material, comprising:
                an elastomer substrate comprising a zeolite containing coating on said
elastomer substrate;
                said elastomer substrate and zeolite forming a soft catheter tube having
a Shore A hardness of not more than 60; and
                wherein the fecal catheter comprises an interior rough surface having an
arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, such that the fecal
catheter is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
20.     A fecal catheter comprising an odor barrier material, comprising:
                a silicone tube;
                at least one layer of nanocomposite coating on said tube; and
                at least one layer of a silane coupling agent;
                                                 13

               said coated tube having an oxygen transmission rate no more than
20,000 cc/m 2 /day; and
       wherein the fecal catheter comprises an interior rough surface having an
arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra) not less than 0.1 pm, wherein the fecal
catheter is non-blocking upon folding and packaging.
                                           14

