                                          ABSTRACT
The invention provides an optoelectronic device comprising a mixed-anion perovskite,
wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or more different anions selected from
halide anions and chalcogenide anions. The invention further provides a mixed-halide
perovskite of the formula (I)
                                       [A][B][X] 3              (I)
        wherein: [A] is at least one organic cation; [B] is at least one divalent metal cation;
and [X] is said two or more different halide anions. In another aspect, the invention provides
the use of a mixed-anion perovskite as a sensitizer in an optoelectronic device, wherein the
mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or more different anions selected from halide anions
and chalcogenide anions. The invention also provides a photosensitizing material for an
optoelectronic device comprising a mixed-anion perovskite wherein the mixed-anion
perovskite comprises two or more different anions selected from halide anions and
chalcogenide anions.

                                                  1
                                OPTOELECTRONIC DEVICE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention relates to optoelectronic devices, including photovoltaic devices
such as solar cells, and light-emitting devices. This is a divisional of Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a further divisional of Australian Patent Application
No. 2013261254, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
        The present increases in the global population coupled with the advance of developing
countries towards more industrialised economies is creating increasing demand for secure,
sustainable energy supplies. There is therefore a pressing need to create new optoelectronic
devices that will sate global demand for low-carbon emission.
        Solar energy is seen as a clean solution providing high efficiency. However, the high
cost of manufacturing devices that harness solar energy, including high material costs, has
historically hindered its use.
        The production of low-cost optoelectronic devices, such as photovoltaics, that consist
of abundant materials, can be manufactured rapidly using reel-to-reel manufacturing methods
and simple wet chemistry processes is therefore a burgeoning field of research. In recent
years, the power conversion efficiencies of optoelectronic devices have been steadily
increasing. However, using traditional photovoltaics it appears unlikely that further
significant increases in power conversion efficiencies can be realised. There is, therefore, a
real need for new solar cells technologies with a focus on low cost.
        Dye-sensitised solar cells are composed of dye-sensitized mesoporous TiO 2 infiltrated
with a redox active electrolyte [O'Regan et al., Nature, 353, 737-740, 1991]. They are a real
contender to be able to generate power on the largest scale. However, despite the most
efficient devices being verified at 11.4% and with recent reports of up to 12.3% [Yella et al.,
Science, 334 (6056), 629 - 634, 2011] widespread commercialization is yet to be achieved.
One of the overriding reasons for the lack of commercial uptake is the liquid nature of the
redox couple used in the electrolyte cell, it is highly volatile and corrosive resulting in major
limitations on both processing and long term stability, especially at elevated temperatures. A

        WO 2013/171517                               2                              PCT/GB2013/051306
    good contender to be able to also generate such efficiencies and be more compatible with
    large scale processing and long term stability is the solid-state dye-sensitized solar cell,
                                                                                                     where
    the redox active electrolyte is substituted with a solid-state hole-conductor.
                                                                                       [Snaith et al.,
   Advanced Materials, 19, 3187 - 3200, 2007] However, at present the most efficient
                                                                                                 solid
   state DSCs are only just over 7%. [Burschka et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 133 (45),
                                                                                              18042
    18045, 2011] The main reason for this lower performance is that the maximum
                                                                                           thickness of
   the solid-state DSC is limited to around 2 ptm due to a combination of faster
                                                                                        charge
   recombination and limited ability to infiltrate thick mesoporous
                                                                         photoanodes [Snaith et al.,
   Advanced Materials, 19, 3187 - 3200, 2007]. At 2 pm thickness, the sensitizers
                                                                                            do not absorb
   enough light over a broad enough spectrum to generate sufficient photocurrent,
                                                                                           and short
  circuit photocurrents are generally limited to around 10 mAcm-2 as opposed
                                                                                       to over
  20 mAcm-2 for the best electrolyte cells.
           Recently there has been renewed interest in "extremely thin absorber" (ETA)
                                                                                                 solar
  cells, which are equivalent to a solid-state DSC, however the dye is replaced
                                                                                        with an
  extremely thin layer of an inorganic semiconductor coated at the interface
                                                                                     between the
  mesoporous TiO 2 and the hole-conductor. Using antimony
                                                                   sulphide Sb 2 S3 as the absorber,
  efficiencies of close to 6% have been reported (Chang
                                                             et al., Nano Lett., 12 (4), 1863 - 1867,
 2012), but for this material, although high photocurrents can be generated
                                                                                    the open-circuit
 voltages are low limiting the overall performance.
           As an alternative absorber material, organometal halide perovskites could
                                                                                             be a good
 candidate and have extremely high extinction coefficients in thin films.
                                                                                They can be easily
 processed from precursor solutions and have a proven excellence in other
                                                                                   applications, such
 as excellent candidates as transistors [Kagan et al., Science, 286, 945,
                                                                              1999] and light
 emitting diodes (Era et al., Appl. Phys. Lett., 65, 676, 1994). Recently,
                                                                               they have also been
reported as sensitizers in liquid electrolyte based photo-electrochemical
                                                                                cells, and delivered
solar power conversion efficiencies of between 3.5 to 6.5%. (Kojima
                                                                             et al, J. Am. Chem.
Soc., 131, 6050, 2009; Im et al, Nanoscale, 3, 4088, 2011.) However, in this
                                                                                       previously
reported electrolyte system, the perovskite absorbers decayed rapidly, and
                                                                                   the solar cells
dropped in performance after only ten minutes.

       WO 2013/171517                              3                          PCT/GB2013/051306
  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          The present inventors have found that optoelectronic devices comprising a mixed
  anion perovskite are surprisingly stable and exhibit unexpectedly high power conversion
  efficiencies and photocurrents. The optoelectronic devices are also relatively inexpensive to
  make and could be produced on a large scale with relative ease.
          An important requirement for any optoelectronic device is stability over the intended
  lifetime of that device. The inventors have found that devices according to the present
 invention are far less susceptible to vapour-induced chromism than devices comprising a
 single-halide perovskite.
          An additional advantage of devices of the present invention is the comparatively high
 power conversion efficiencies and photocurrents they deliver. Photo-conversion efficiencies
 at 1 sun (AM 1.5G 100 mWcm 2 ) of 11.5 % have been observed. These efficiencies surpass
 the efficiencies displayed by devices comprising a single-halide perovskite. Further, the
 performance of the devices of the invention is unprecedented for solid-state sensitized solar
 cells and competes directly with the very best performing electrolyte cells. Photocurrents of
 21 mAcm 2 have observed for optoelectronic devices on the invention. This exceeds the
photocurrents observed for the most efficient solid-state DSCs currently available.
          Further, the mixed-anion perovskite provides a very flexible framework which may be
manipulated by adjusting the individual components in the material, and thus allows
exceptional control at the molecular level. The properties of the mixed-anion perovskite
may, therefore, be easily tuned to enhance the performance of the optoelectronic device in
which they are utilised.
         All of these advantages would be overshadowed if the optoelectronic devices were
expensive to produce or required complex manufacturing methods that ruled out large scale
production. However, this is not the case for the optoelectronic devices of the present
invention. The materials used in the devices are both relatively abundant and inexpensive.
Further, the devices may be produced via processes that would allow large-scale production
methods.
         Accordingly, in a first aspect, the invention provides an optoelectronic device
comprising a mixed-anion perovskite, wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or
more different anions selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions.

      WO 2013/171517                                 4                           PCT/GB2013/051306
          In a second aspect, the invention provides a mixed-halide perovskite of formula (I)
                                           [A] [B] [X] 3           (I)
 wherein:
           [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (RiR 2R3R4N)*, wherein:
                   (i) R, is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl;
                  (ii) R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C  20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl;
                  (iii) R 3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl; and
                  (iv) R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl;
         [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
         [X] is said two or more different halide anions.
         Typically, in the second aspect of the invention:
         (i) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Sn2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise: (a) a chloride ion and a
bromide ion, or (b) a bromide ion and an iodide ion; and
        (ii) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH 3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Pb2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise a chloride ion and a bromide
ion.
        In a third aspect, the invention provides a mixed-halide perovskite of the formula (I)
                                          [A][B][X] 3             (I)
wherein:
         [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (R5RNN=CH-NR 7R8 )+,wherein:

      WO 2013/171517                              5                              PCT/GB2013/051306
         (i) R 5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
 substituted aryl;
         (ii) R 6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         (iii) R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
         (iv) R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl:
         [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
         [X] is two or more different halide anions.
         In another aspect, the invention provides the use of a mixed-anion perovskite as a
sensitizer in an optoelectronic device, wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or
more different anions selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions.
         The invention also provides a photosensitizing material for an optoelectronic device
comprising a mixed-anion perovskite wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or
more different anions selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a photovoltaic device comprising a mixed-anion
perovskite.
Figure 2(a) is a UV-Vis absorbance spectra of perovskite CH 3NH 3PbBr 3 , prepared on TiO 2.
On the graph wavelength in nm is plotted on the x-axis and absorbance in arbitrary units is
plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 2(b) is a UV-Vis absorbance spectra of perovskite CH 3NH3PbI3, prepared on TiO 2.
On the graph wavelength in nm is plotted on the x-axis and the absorbance in arbitrary units
is plotted on the y-axis.

      WO 2013/171517                                6                           PCT/GB2013/051306
Figure 3 is an isometric cross-section drawing of a generic nanostructured solar cell: (1)
metal cathode, (2) hole-conducting material, nanostructured mesoporous metal oxide with
absorber and hole-conducting material (see Figure 4 for clarification), (3) transparent
conducting metal oxide (anode), (4) transparent substrate, (5) metal anode, (6) compact metal
oxide.
Figure 4 is a schematic showing cross-section of the 'active layer' of a generic nanostructured
solar cell: (2(i)) light sensitive absorber, (2(ii)) metal oxide, metal cathode, (6) compact metal
oxide, (7) hole-conducting material.
Figure 5 is a UV-Vis absorbance spectra of organometal mixed-halide layered perovskites:
K330 (CH 3NH3PbCl2 I) and K331 (CH 3NH 3PbCl2Br), prepared on TiO 2 at 20 vol %. On the
graph the wavelength in nm is plotted on the x-axis and the absorbance in arbitrary units is
plotted on the y-axis. The dark trace is K330 and the light trace is K331.
Figure 6 shows the current-voltage characteristics under simulated AM 1.5G illumination of
100mWcm (top curve) and in the dark (bottom curve) of a device assembled in bilayer
structure: F:SnO2/Compact TiO 2/K330/Spiro OMeTAD/Ag. On the graph the voltage in volts
is plotted on the x-axis and the current density in mAcm 2 is plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 7 shows the current-voltage characteristics under simulated AM1.5G illumination of a
device assembled in absorber-sensitised structure with hole-conductor: F:SnO2/Compact
TiO2/Mesoporous TiO 2/K33 0/Spiro OMeTAD/Ag. On the graph the voltage in volts is
plotted on the x-axis and the current density in mAcm- is plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 8 shows the current-voltage characteristics under simulated AM 1.5G illumination of a
device assembled in absorber-sensitised structure with hole-conductor: F:SnO2/Compact
TiO 2/Mesoporous TiO 2/K330/P3HT/Ag. On the graph the voltage in volts is plotted on the x
axis and the current density in mAcm- is plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 9 shows the Incident Photon-to-Electron Conversion Efficiency (IPCE) action spectra
of a device assembled in mesoporous absorber structure with hole-conductor:
F:SnO 2/Compact TiO 2/Mesoporous TiO 2/K330/Spiro OMeTAD/Ag. On the graph the
wavelength in nm is plotted on the x-axis and the IPCE in plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 10 shows the Incident Photon-to-Electron Conversion Efficiency (IPCE) action
spectra of a device assembled in absorber-sensitised structure with hole-conductor:

      WO 2013/171517                              7                            PCT/GB2013/051306
F:SnO 2/Compact TiO 2/Mesoporous TiO 2/K330/P3HT (dark trace) or PCPDTBT (light
trace)/Ag. On the graph the wavelength in nm is plotted on the x-axis and the IPCE in
plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 11 shows the UV-Vis absorbance spectra for a device assembled in absorber
sensitised structure with hole-conductor: F:SnO2/Compact TiO 2/mesoporous
oxide/K330/Spiro OMeTAD sealed using surlyn and epoxy with light soaking under
simulated AM1.5G illumination over time. On the graph wavelength in nm is plotted on the
x-axis and the absorbance in arbitrary units is plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 12 shows the UV-Vis absorbance spectra taken at 500 nm of light soaking under
simulated AMI.5G illumination over time for device assembled in absorber-sensitised
structure with hole-conductor: F:SnO2/Compact TiO 2/Mesoporous TiO2/K330/Spiro
OMeTAD sealed using surlyn and epoxy. On the graph time in hours is plotted on the x-axis
and the absorbance in arbitrary units is plotted on the y-axis.
Figure 13 shows the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) spectra of K330 at 35 vol% on glass. Degrees
in 2-theta are plotted on the x-axis and the number of counts in arbitrary units is plotted on
the y-axis.
Figure 14 shows the Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) image cross-section of
mesoporous TiO 2.
Figure 15 shows the Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) image cross-section of
mesoporous TiO 2/K330.
Figure 16 shows the Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) image cross-section of
mesoporous TiO2/K330/Spiro OMeTAD.
Figure 17(a) shows UV-vis absorption spectra of the range of FOPbI 3yBr 3 (Iy) perovskites and
Figure 17(b) shows steady-state photoluminescence spectra of the same samples.
Figure 18(a-c) provides schematic diagrams of: (a) the general perovskite ABX 3 unit cell; (b)
the cubic perovskite lattice structure (the unit cell is shown as an overlaid square); and (c) the
tetragonal perovskite lattice structure arising from a distortion of the BX 6 octahedra (the unit
cell is shown as the larger overlaid square, and the pseudocubic.unit cell that it can be
described by is shown as the smaller overlaid square).

      WO 2013/171517                              8                             PCT/GB2013/051306
Figure 18(d) shows X-ray diffraction data for the FOPbI 3yBr 3 (.y) perovskites for various
values of y ranging from 0 to 1. Figure 18(e) shows a magnification of the transition between
the (100) cubic peak and the (110) tetragonal peak, corresponding to the (100) pseudocubic
peak, as the system moves from bromide to iodide. Figure 18(f) shows a plot of bandgap
against calculated pseudocubic lattice parameter.
Figure 19(a) shows average current-voltage characteristics for a batch of solar cells
comprising FOPbI 3yBr 3 (1-y) perovskites sensitizing mesoporous titania, with spiro-OMeTAD
as the hole transporter, measured under simulated AM1.5 sunlight. Figure 19(b) shows a
normalised external quantum efficiency for representative cells, and Figure 19(c) shows a
plot of the device parameters of merit for the batch, as a function of the iodine fraction, y, in
the FOPbI 3 yBr 3 (..y) perovskite.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         The invention provides an optoelectronic device comprising a mixed-anion
perovskite, wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or more different anions
 selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions.
         An optoelectronic device is any device that is capable of converting optical energy
 into electrical energy or converting electrical energy into optical energy.
         The term "perovskite", as used herein, refers to a material with a three-dimensional
 crystal structure related to that of CaTiO 3 or a material comprising a layer of material,
 wherein the layer has a structure related to that of CaTiO 3 . The structure of CaTiO 3 can be
 represented by the formula ABX 3 , wherein A and B are cations of different sizes and X is an
 anion. In the unit cell, the A cations are at (0,0,0), the B cations are at (1/2, 1/2, 1/2) and the
 X anions are at (1/2, 1/2, 0). The A cation is usually larger than the B cation. The skilled
 person will appreciate that when A, B and X are varied, the different ion sizes may cause the
 structure of the perovskite material to distort away from the structure adopted by CaTiO 3 to a
 lower-symmetry distorted structure. The symmetry will also be lower if the material
  comprises a layer that has a structure related to that of CaTiO 3 . Materials comprising a layer
  of perovskite material are well know. For instance, the structure of materials adopting the
  K2NiF 4 -type structure comprises a layer of perovskite material. The skilled person will also
  appreciate a perovskite material could be represented by the formula [A] [B] [X] 3 , wherein A

      WO 2013/171517                               9                           PCT/GB2013/051306
is at least one cation, B is at least one cation and X is at least one anion. When the perovskite
comprise more than one A cation, the different A cations may distributed over the A sites in
an ordered or disordered way. When the perovskite comprise more than one B cation, the
different B cations may distributed over the B sites in an ordered or disordered way. When
the perovskite comprise more than one X anion, the different X anions may distributed over
the X sites in an ordered or disordered way. The symmetry of a perovskite comprising more
than one A cation, more than one B cation or more than one X cation, will be lower than that
of CaTiO 3 .
         The term "mixed-anion", as used herein, refers to a compound comprising at least two
different anions.
         The term "halide" refers to an anion of a group 7 element, i.e., of a halogen.
Typically, halide refers to a fluoride anion, a chloride anion, a bromide anion, an iodide anion
or an astatide anion.
         The term "chalcogenide anion", as used herein refers to an anion of group 6 element,
i.e. of a chalcogen. Typically, chalcogenide refers to an oxide anion, a sulphide anion, a
selenide anion or a telluride anion.
         In the optoelectronic device of the invention the mixed-anion perovskite may
comprise a first cation, a second cation, and said two or more different anions.
         As the skilled person will appreciate, the mixed-anion perovskite may comprise
further cations or further anions. For example, the mixed-anion perovskite may comprise
two, three or four different cations, or two, three of four different anions.
         In one embodiment, the perovskite comprises two different anions selected from
halide anions and chalcogenide anions. The two different anions may be a halide anion and a
chalcogenide anion, two different halide anions or two different chalcogenide anions.
         Typically, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, the second cation in the
mixed-anion perovskite is a metal cation. More typically, the second cation is a divalent
metal cation. For instance, the second cation may be selected from Ca+, Sr2+, Cd2+, Cu2+,
Ni2+, Mn2+, Fe2+, Co2+, Pd2+, Ge2+, Sn2+, Pb2+, Sn 2+,Yb2+ and Eu 2+. Usually, the second
                             2
 cation is selected from Sn2+   and Pb22+ .

     WO 2013/171517                              10                             PCT/GB2013/051306
         In the optoelectronic device of the invention, the first cation in the mixed-anion
perovskite is usually an organic cation.
         The term "organic cation" refers to a cation comprising carbon. The cation may
 comprise further elements, for example, the cation may comprise hydrogen, nitrogen or
 oxygen.
         Changes to the organic cation (or organic cations) in the perovskite will usually have
an impact on the structural and/or physical properties of the perovskite. By controlling the
organic cation used, the electronic properties and the optical properties of the material may be
controlled. This flexible control over the properties displayed by the perovskites is
particularly useful for tuning the properties of the optoelectronic device comprising said
perovskite. For example, by changing the organic cation, the conductivity of the material
may increase or decrease. Further, changing in organic cation may alter the band structure of
the material thus, for example, allowing control of the band gap for a semiconducting
material.
        Usually, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, the organic cation has the
formula (R1R2R3R4N)*, wherein: R1 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C2 0 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; and R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20
alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl.
        As used herein, an alkyl group can be a substituted or unsubstituted, linear or
branched chain saturated radical, it is often a substituted or an unsubstituted linear chain
saturated radical, more often an unsubstituted linear chain saturated radical. A C 1-C20 alkyl
group is an unsubstituted or substituted, straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon
radical, having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Typically it is C1 -Cio alkyl, for example methyl,
ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl or decyl, or C1 -C6 alkyl, for example
methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl or hexyl, or C -C4 alkyl, for example methyl, ethyl, i
propyl, n-propyl, t-butyl, s-butyl or n-butyl.
        When an alkyl group is substituted it typically bears one or more substituents selected
from substituted or unsubstituted C -C20 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl (as defined
herein), cyano, amino, C1-C1o alkylamino, di(Ci-Cio)alkylamino, arylamino, diarylamino,

      WO 2013/171517                               1                            PCT/GB2013/051306
 arylalkylamino, amido, acylamido, hydroxy, oxo, halo, carboxy, ester, acyl, acyloxy, C1-C20
 alkoxy, aryloxy, haloalkyl, sulfonic acid, sulfhydryl (i.e. thiol, -SH), Ci-Cio alkylthio,
 arylthio, sulfonyl, phosphoric acid, phosphate ester, phosphonic acid and phosphonate ester.
 Examples of substituted alkyl groups include haloalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl,
 alkoxyalkyl and alkaryl groups. The term alkaryl, as used herein, pertains to a C1-C2 0alkyl
 group in which at least one hydrogen atom has been replaced with an aryl group. Examples
 of such groups include, but are not limited to, benzyl (phenylmethyl, PhCH 2 -), benzhydryl
 (Ph 2CH-), trityl (triphenylmethyl, Ph 3 C-), phenethyl (phenylethyl, Ph-CH 2 CH 2-), styryl
 (Ph-CH=CH-), cinnamyl (Ph-CH=CH-CH 2-).
          Typically a substituted alkyl group carries 1, 2 or 3 substituents, for instance 1 or 2.
          An aryl group is a substituted or unsubstituted, monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic group
which typically contains from 6 to 14 carbon atoms, preferably from 6 to 10 carbon atoms in
the ring portion. Examples include phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl and indanyl groups. An aryl
group is unsubstituted or substituted. When an aryl group as defined above is substituted it
typically bears one or more substituents selected from Ci-C 6 alkyl which is unsubstituted (to
form an aralkyl group), aryl which is unsubstituted, cyano, amino, C1 -C10 alkylamino, di(C1
Cio)alkylamino, arylamino, diarylamino, arylalkylamino, amido, acylamido, hydroxy, halo,
carboxy, ester, acyl, acyloxy, C1-C20 alkoxy, aryloxy, haloalkyl, sulfhydryl (i.e. thiol, -SH),
C1 .10 alkylthio, arylthio, sulfonic acid, phosphoric acid, phosphate ester, phosphonic acid and
phosphonate ester and sulfonyl. Typically it carries 0, 1, 2 or 3 substituents. A substituted
aryl group may be substituted in two positions with a single C1 -C6 alkylene group, or with a
bidentate group represented by the formula -X-(Ci-C 6 )alkylene, or -X-(CI-C 6 )alkylene-X-,
wherein X is selected from 0, S and NR, and wherein R is H, aryl or CI-C 6 alkyl. Thus a
substituted aryl group may be an aryl group fused with a cycloalkyl group or with a
heterocyclyl group. The ring atoms of an aryl group may include one or more heteroatoms (as
in a heteroaryl group). Such an aryl group (a heteroaryl group) is a substituted or
unsubstituted mono- or bicyclic heteroaromatic group which typically contains from 6 to 10
atoms in the ring portion including one or more heteroatoms. It is generally a 5- or 6
membered ring, containing at least one heteroatom selected from 0, S, N, P, Se and Si. It
may contain, for example, 1, 2 or 3 heteroatoms. Examples of heteroaryl groups include
thiophenyl, pyridyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, furanyl, thienyl, pyrazolidinyl,
pyrrolyl, oxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiadiazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, imidazolyl,

     WO 2013/171517                             12                             PCT/GB2013/051306
pyrazolyl, quinolyl and isoquinolyl. A heteroaryl group may be unsubstituted or substituted,
for instance, as specified above for aryl. Typically it carries 0, 1, 2 or 3 substituents.
        Mainly, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, R, in the organic cation is
hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R2 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R3 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl,
and R4 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl. For instance R1 may be hydrogen or methyl, R2 may be
hydrogen or methyl, R 3 may be hydrogen or methyl, and R4 may be hydrogen or methyl.
        Alternatively, the organic cation may have the formula (R 5 NH 3)*, wherein: R 5 is
hydrogen, or unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl. For instance, R5 may be methyl or
ethyl. Typically, R5 is methyl.
        In some embodiments, the organic cation has the formula (R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*,
wherein:
        R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        R 7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
        R8  is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl.
        Typically, R5 in the organic cation is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R6 is hydrogen,
methyl or ethyl, R7 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, and R8 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl. For
instance R5 may be hydrogen or methyl, R6 may be hydrogen or methyl, R 7 may be hydrogen
or methyl, and R8 may be hydrogen or methyl.
        The organic cation may, for example, have the formula (H2N=CH-NH 2 ) .
        In the optoelectronic device of the invention, the perovskite is usually a mixed-halide
perovskite, wherein said two or more different anions are two or more different halide anions.
Typically, they are two or three halide anions, more typically, two different halide anions.
Usually the halide anions are selected from fluoride, chloride, bromide and iodide, for
instance chloride, bromide and iodide.

      WO 2013/171517                              13                             PCT/GB2013/051306
         Typically, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, the perovskite is a perovskite
compound of the formula (I):
                                         [A][B][X] 3              (I)
wherein:
         [A] is at least one organic cation;
         [B] is at least one metal cation; and
         [X] is said two or more different anions.
         For instance, the perovskite of the formula (I) may comprise one, two, three or four
different metal cations, typically one or two different metal cations. The perovskite of the
formula (I), may, for instance, comprise one, two, three or four different organic cations,
typically one or two different organic cations. The perovskite of the formula (I), may, for
instance, comprise two, three or four different anions, typically two or three different anions.
         Often, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, [X] is a halide anion and a
chalcogenide anion, two different halide anions or two different chalcogenide anions.
         Typically, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, [B] in the mixed-anion
perovskite is at least one metal cation. More typically, [B] is at least one divalent metal
cation. For instance, [B] is at least one divalent metal cation may be selected from Ca2 +, Sr2+,
Cd2+, Cu2+, Ni2+, Mn2+, Fe2+, C02+, Pd2+      , 2+ Sn 2+, Pb2+, Sn 2+, Yb2+ and Eu2+. Usually, [B]
is at least one divalent metal cation is selected from Sn2+ and Pb2 .
         Usually, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, [A] is at least one organic
cation which has the formula (RiR 2R3 R4N)*, wherein:
         Ri is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         R 2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         R 3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and

     WO 2013/171517                             14                              PCT/GB2013/051306
        R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl.
         [A] may however be at least one organic cation which has the formula
(R5 R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein: R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C 1-C20 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; and R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C2 0
alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl.
        In one embodiment, the perovskite is a perovskite compound of the formula (IA):
                                        AB[X] 3                        (IA)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation;
        B is a metal cation; and
        [X] is said two or more different anions.
        Usually, [X] is two or more different halide anions. Preferably, [X] is two or three
different halide anions. More preferably, [X] is two different halide anions. In another
embodiement [X] is three different halide anions.
        Often, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, [X] is a halide anion and a
chalcogenide anion, two different halide anions or two different chalcogenide anions.
        Typically, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, B is a divalent metal cation.
For instance, B is a divalent metal cation may be selected from Ca 2 +, Sr 2 +, Cd2+, Cu 2 +, Ni2 +
Mn2+, Fe 2+, Co2+, Pd2+, Ge2+, Sn2+, Pb2+, Sn2+, Yb 2+and Eu2+. Usually, B is a divalent metal
cation is selected from Sn2 + and Pb2 +
        Usually, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, A is an organic cation which
has the formula (RiR 2R3R4N)*, wherein:
        Ri is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;

     WO 2013/171517                              15                           PCT/GB2013/051306
        R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
        R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl.
        A may however be at least one organic cation which has the formula
(R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein: R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C2 0 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2 0 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl; and R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C2 0
alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl.
        Typically, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, the perovskite is a perovskite
compound of formula (II):
                                        ABX3..yX'y             (II)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation;
        B is a metal cation;
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
        y is from 0.05 to 2.95.
        Usually, y is from 0.5 to 2.5, for instance from 0.75 to 2.25. Typically, y is from 1 to
2.
        Often, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, X is a halide anion and X' is a
chalcogenide anion, or X and X' are two different halide anions or two different chalcogenide
anions.

      WO 2013/171517                              16                            PCT/GB2013/051306
         Typically, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, B may be a divalent metal
 cation. For instance, B is a divalent metal cation may be selected from Ca2+, Sr 2 +, Cd2+, Cu2+
Ni2 +, Mn 2+, Fe2+, C02+, Pd2 +, Ge2+, Sn2+, Pb2+, Sn2+, Yb2+ and Eu 2+. Usually, B is a divalent
 metal cation selected from Sn2+ and Pb2 +.
         Usually, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, A is an organic cation which
has the formula (RiR 2R3R4N)*, wherein:
         R, is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         R 2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C 1-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C   20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
         R 4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C -C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl.
         In some embodiments of the optoelectronic device of the invention, when [B] is a
single metal cation which is Pb2 +, one of said two or more different halide anions is iodide or
fluoride; and when [B] is a single metal cation which is Sn2+ one of said two or more
different halide anions is fluoride. Usually, in some embodiments of the optoelectronic
device of the invention, one of said two or more different halide anions is iodide or fluoride.
Typically, in some embodiments of the optoelectronic device of the invention, one of said
two or more different halide anions is iodide and another of said two or more different halide
anions is fluoride or chloride. Often, in some embodiments of the optoelectronic device of
the invention, one of said two or more different halide anions is fluoride. Typically, in some
embodiments of the optoelectronic device of the invention, either: (a) one of said two or more
different anions is fluoride and another of said said two or more different anions is chloride,
bromide or iodide; or (b) one of said two or more different anions is iodide and another of
said two or more different anions is fluoride or chloride.
        Usually, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, [X] is two different halide
anions X and X'.

     WO 2013/171517                               17                           PCT/GB2013/051306
         Often, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, said divalent metal cation is Sn 2 +.
Alternatively, in some embodiments of the optoelectronic device of the invention, said
divalent metal cation may be Pb2 +
        In some embodiments, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, the perovskite is
a perovskite compound of formula (Ila):
                                         ABX 3 zX' 3(l-z)       (Ila)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation of the formula (R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein: R5 is hydrogen,
unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R6 is hydrogen,
unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl; R7 is hydrogen,
unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl; and R8 is
hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl;
        B is a metal cation;
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
        z is greater than 0 and less than 1.
        Usually, z is from 0.05 to 0.95.
        Preferably, z is from 0.1 to 0.9. z may, for instance, be 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7,
0.8 or 0.9, or z may be a range of from any one of these values, to any other of these values
(for instance from 0.2 to 0.7, or from 0.1 to 0.8).
        Typically, X is a halide anion and X' is a chalcogenide anion, or X and X' are two
different halide anions or two different chalcogenide anions. Usually, X and X' are two
different halide anions. For instance, one of said two or more different halide anions may be
iodide and another of said two or more different halide anions may be bromide.
        Usually, B is a divalent metal cation. For instance, B may be a divalent metal cation,
                      2+ 2+                      2+       2+    2+             2+      i 2+
selected from Ca2+, Sr , Cd 2 +, Cu 2 +, Ni2+, Mn2+, Fe , C02+, Pd 2 +, Ge , Sn2+, Pb , Sn2+, Yb2 +
and Eu2 +. Usually, B is a divalent metal cation selected from Sn2+ and Pb2 +. For instance, B
may be Pb2 +

     WO 2013/171517                             1                             PCT/GB2013/051306
        The organic cation may, for instance, be (R5R6N=CH-NR 7Rs)*, wherein: R5, R6, R 7
and R8 are independently selected from hydrogen and unsubstituted or substituted C-C        6
alkyl. For instance, the organic cation may be (H2N=CH-NH 2) .
        In the optoelectronic device of the invention, the perovskites is typically selected from
CH 3NH3PbBrI 2 , CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2, CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 , CH 3NH3PbICl 2 , CH 3NH3PbClBr2 ,
CH 3NH3PbI2Cl, CH 3NH 3 SnBrI 2, CH 3NH 3SnBrCl 2, CH 3NH 3SnF 2Br, CH 3NH3 SnIBr 2,
CH 3NH3 SnICl 2, CH 3NH 3 SnF 2I, CH 3NH 3SnClBr 2 , CH 3NH3 SnI 2C1 and CH 3NH 3SnF 2Cl.
Typically, the perovskite is selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2 , CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2 , CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2,
CH 3NH 3PbICl 2, CH 3NH 3PbClBr 2 , CH 3NH3PbI2Cl, CH 3NH 3SnF 2Br, CH 3 NH3 SnICl2,
CH 3NH 3 SnF2I, CH 3NH3 SnI 2 C and CH 3NH 3 SnF2 C. More typically, the perovskite is
selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI 2, CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2, CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 , CH 3NH 3PbIC 2 ,
CH 3NH 3PbCJBr 2, CH 3NH3PbI2Cl, CH 3NH3 SnF 2Br, CH 3NH3 SnF 2I and CH 3NH 3 SnF 2 Cl.
Usually, the perovskite is selected from CH 3NH3PbBrI 2, CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2, CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 ,
CH 3NH 3PbICl 2, CH 3NH 3 SnF 2Br, and CH 3NH 3 SnF2I.
        In some embodiments, the perovskite may be a perovskite of formula
(H2N=CH-NH 2)PbI 3 Br 3(1 z), wherein z is greater than 0 and less than 1. z may be as further
defined hereinbefore.
        The optoelectronic device of the invention may comprise said perovskite and a single
anion perovskite, wherein said single anion perovskite comprises a first cation, a second
cation and an anion selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions; wherein the first
and second cations are as herein defined for said mixed-anion perovskite. For instance, the
optoelectronic device may comprise: CH 3NH3 PbICl2 and CH 3NH 3PbI 3; CH 3NH 3PbICl2 and
CH 3NH 3PbBr 3; CH 3NH3 PbBrCl2 and CH 3NH 3PbI3 ; or CH 3NH3 PbBrCl 2 and CH 3NH3PbBr 3.
        The optoelectronic device may comprise a perovskite of formula
(H2N=CH-NH 2)PbI 3zBr 3(lz), wherein z is as defined herein, and a single-anion perovskite
such as (H2N=CH-NH 2 )PbI3 or (H2N=CH-NH 2)PbBr 3.
Alternatively, the optoelectronic device of the invention may comprise more than one
perovskite, wherein each perovskite is a mixed-anion perovskite, and wherein said mixed
anion perovskite is as herein defined. For instance, the optoelectronic device may comprise
two or three said perovskites. The optoelectronic device of the invention may, for instance,
comprise two perovskites wherein both perovskites are mixed-anion perovskites. For

     WO 2013/171517                              19                             PCT/GB2013/051306
instance, the optoelectronic device may comprise: CH 3NH 3PbICl 2 and CH 3NH3PbIBr 2 ;
CH 3NH3PbICl 2 and CH 3NH3PbBrI 2 ; CH 3NH3PbBrCl 2 and CH 3NH3PbIBr 2 ; or
CH 3NH3PbBrCl 2 and CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 .
        The optoelectronic device may comprise two different perovskites, wherein each
perovskite is a perovskite of formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)PbI 3zBr 3(z), wherein z is as defined
herein.
        The optoelectronic device of the invention is typically an optoelectronic device
selected from: a photovoltaic device; a photodiode; a phototransistor; a photomultiplier; a
photo resistor; a photo detector; a light-sensitive detector; solid-state triode; a battery
electrode; a light-emitting device; a light-emitting diode; a transistor; a solar cell; a laser; and
a diode injection laser.
        Usually, the optoelectronic device of the invention is a photovoltaic device. More
usually, the device is a solar cell.
        Alternatively, the optoelectronic device of the invention may be a light-emitting
device, for instance, a light-emitting diode.
        In one embodiment, the optoelectronic device of the invention, is an optoelectronic
device comprising:
        a first electrode;
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) said perovskite.
        The first and second electrodes are an anode and a cathode, one or both of which is
transparent to allow the ingress of light. The choice of the first and second electrodes of the
optoelectronic devices of the present invention may depend on the structure type. Typically,
the n-type layer is deposited onto a tin oxide, more typically onto a fluorine-doped tin oxide
(FTO) anode, which is usually a transparent or semi-transparent material. Thus, the first
electrode is usually transparent or semi-transparent and typically comprises FTO. Usually,
the thickness of the first electrode is from 200 nm to 600 nm, more usually, from 300 to
500 nm. For instance the thickness may be 400 nm. Typically, FTO is coated onto a glass
sheet. Usually, the second electrode comprises a high work function metal, for instance gold,

     WO 2013/171517                             20                            PCT/GB2013/051306
silver, nickel, palladium or platinum, and typically silver. Usually, the thickness of the
second electrode is from 50 nm to 250 nm, more usually from 100 nm to 200 nm. For
instance, the thickness of the second electrode may be 150 nm.
         As used herein, the term "thickness" refers to the average thickness of a component of
an optoelectronic device.
         Typically, the optoelectronic device of the invention is an optoelectronic device
comprising:
         a first electrode;
         a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
         (a) a thin film comprising said perovskite.
         In one embodiment, the optoelectronic device of the invention is an optoelectronic
device comprising:
         a first electrode;
         a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
         (a) a layer of a semiconductor; and
         (b) said perovskite.
         The term "semiconductor" as used herein refers to a material with electrical
conductivity intermediate in magnitude between that of a conductor and an insulator. The
semiconductor may be an intrinsic semiconductor, an n-type semiconductor or a p-type
semiconductor. Examples of semiconductors include perovskites; oxides of titanium,
niobium, tin, zinc, cadmium, copper or lead; chalcogenides of antimony, copper, zinc, iron,
or bismuth (e.g. copper sulphide and iron sulphide); copper zinc tin chalcogenides, for
example, copper zinc tin sulphides such a Cu 2ZnSnS 4 (CZTS) and copper zinc tin sulphur
selenides such as Cu 2ZnSn(SixSex) 4 (CZTSSe); copper indium chalcogenides such as copper
indium selenide (CIS); copper indium gallium chalcogenides such as copper indium gallium
selenides (CulnixGaxSe 2) (CIGS) ; and copper indium gallium diselenide. Further examples
are group IV compound semiconductors (e.g. silicon carbide); group 111-V semiconductors
(e.g. gallium arsenide); group II-VI semiconductors (e.g. cadmium selenide); group I-VII

     WO 2013/171517                             21                           PCT/GB2013/051306
semiconductors (e.g. cuprous chloride); group IV-VI semiconductors (e.g. lead selenide);
group V-VI semiconductors (e.g. bismuth telluride); and group II-V semiconductors (e.g.
cadmium arsenide); ternary or quaternary semiconductors (eg. Copper Indium Selenide,
Copper indium gallium di-selenide, copper zinc tin sulphide, or copper zinc tin sulphide
selenide (CZTSSe).
        Usually, the optoelectronic device of the invention, is an optoelectronic device
comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second
electrodes: (a) an n-type layer; and (b) said perovskite.
        As used herein, the term "n-type layer", refers to a layer comprising an n-type, or
electron transporting material.
        Alternatively, the optoelectronic device of the invention, is an optoelectronic device
comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second
electrodes: (a) a p-type layer; and (b) said perovskite.
        The term "p-type layer", as used herein, refers to a layer comprising a p-type, or hole
transporting material.
        In one embodiment, the optoelectronic device of the invention, is an optoelectronic
device comprising:
        a first electrode;
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) an n-type layer;
        (b) said perovskite; and
        (c) a p-type layer.
        The optoelectronic device of this embodiment may be any of those listed above, for
instance a photovoltaic device. The perovskite is typically a sensitizer material.
        The term "sensitizer", as used herein, refers to a material which is capable of
performing photoinduced charge generation, photoemission or electroemission.

      WO 2013/171517                             22                               PCT/GB2013/051306
         Often, the sensitizer is also capable of transporting charge (holes or electrons). For
instance, when the sensitizer is said perovskite, the sensitizer is also capable of transporting
charge.
         Usually, the n-type layer comprises a metal oxide semiconductor and the p-type layer
comprises a hole transporting material. The metal oxide semiconductor and the hole
transporting material are as herein defined.
          Alternatively, the p-type layer comprises a metal oxide semiconductor and the n-type
layer comprises an electron transporting material. For instance, the metal oxide
 semiconductor may comprise an oxide of nickel, molybdenum, copper or vanadium, or a
 mixture thereof. Often, the electron transporting material comprises a fullerene or perylene,
 or derivatives thereof, poly {[N,NO-bis(2-octyldodecyl)-naphthalene- 1,4,5,8
 bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl]-alt-5,50-(2,20-bithiophene)} (P(NDI2OD-T2)), or an
 electrolyte.
          In one embodiment, the optoelectronic device may be a thin film device. Usually, the
 n-type layer will comprise a metal oxide, metal sulphide, metal selenide or metal telluride.
 Often, the metal oxide will be an oxide an oxide of titanium, tin, zinc, niobium, tantalum,
                                                                                               For
 tungsten, indium, gallium, neodinium, palladium or cadmium, or a mixture thereof.
 instance, the n-type layer may comprise TiO 2 , SnO 2 , ZnO, Nb 20 5 , Ta 2 0 5 , W0 3 , W 2 0 5 , In203,
                                                                                                       be
 Ga 20 3 , Nd 2O3 , PbO, or CdO. Often, the metal oxide is TiO 2 . Typically, the sulphide will
 a sulphide of cadmium, tin, copper, zinc or a mixture thereof. For instance, the sulphide may
 be FeS 2 , CdS or Cu 2 ZnSnS4 . Usually, the selenide will be a selenide of cadmium, zinc,
  indium or gallium or a mixture thereof. For instance, the selenide may be Cu(In,Ga)Se2.
  Typically, the tellenide is a tellenide of cadmium, zinc, cadmium or tin. For instance, the
  tellenide may be CdTe.
           The optoelectronic device may comprise a tunnel junction. For instance, the
  optoelectronic device may be a multi-junction solar cell or tandem cell.
           In one embodiment, the optoelectronic device of the invention is an optoelectronic
  device comprising:
           a first electrode;
           a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:

     WO 2013/171517                            23                            PCT/GB2013/051306
        (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor; and
        (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite.
        Typically, the optoelectronic device of the invention is an optoelectronic device
comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second
electrodes: (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor; (b) a sensitizer material comprising said
perovskite; and (c) a charge transporting material.
        The optoelectronic device of the invention may, for instance, be an optoelectronic
device comprising:
        a first electrode;
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor, which is a porous layer of a p-type
semiconductor;
        (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite; and
        (c) a charge transporting material ,which is an electron transporting material.
        Usually, when the porous layer of a semiconductor is a porous layer of a p-type
semiconductor, the porous layer comprises an oxide of nickel, vanadium, copper or
molybdenum. For instance, the porous layer may comprise NiO, V 2 0 5 , MoO 3 or CuO.
        Typically, the porous layer of a p-type semiconductor is in contact with a compact
layer of a p-type semiconductor. For instance, the compact layer of a p-type semiconductor
may comprise oxide of nickel, vanadium, copper or molybdenum. Usually, compact layer of
a p-type semiconductor comprises NiO, V 2 0 5 , MoO 3 or CuO.
        Often, when the charge transporting material is an electron transporting material, the
charge transporting material comprises a fullerene or perylene, or derivatives thereof, or
P(NDI20D-T2)). For instance, the charge transporting material may be P(NDI2OD-T2).
        Alternatively, the optoelectronic device of the invention may be a photovoltaic device
comprising:
        a first electrode;

     WO 2013/171517                                 24                              PCT/GB2013/051306
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor, which is a porous layer of an n-type
semiconductor;
        (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite; and
        (c) a charge transporting material, which is a hole transporting material.
        Typically, when the porous layer of a semiconductor is a porous layer of an n-type
semiconductor, the porous layer of an n-type semiconductor comprises: an oxide of titanium,
tin, zinc, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, indium, gallium, neodinium, palladium or cadmium, or
a mixture thereof. For instance, the porous layer of a semiconductor may comprise TiO 2 ,
SnO 2 , ZnO, Nb 20 5 , Ta2 0 5 , W0 3 , W 20 5, 1n203, Ga 20 3 , Nd2 0 3 , PbO, or CdO. Often, the
porous layer of an n-type semiconductor comprises a mesoporous oxide of titanium, tin, zinc,
niobium, tantalum, tungsten, indium, gallium, neodinium, palladium or cadmium or a mixture
thereof.
         The term "mesoporous", as used herein means that the pores in the porous layer are
 microscopic and have a size which is usefully measured in nanometres (nm). The mean pore
 size of the pores within a "mesoporous" structure may for instance be anywhere in the range
 of from 1 nm to 100 nm, or for instance from 2 nm to 50 nm. Individual pores may be
 different sizes and may be any shape. The term "pore size", as used herein, defines the size
 of the pores. For spherical pores, the pore size is equal to the diameter of the sphere. For
                                                                                                   of
 pores that are not spherical, the pore size is equal to the diameter of a sphere, the volume
 said sphere being equal to the volume of the non-spherical pore. This definition of pore size
 applies to the pores within said mesoporous single crystal and the pores within said porous
 template.
          Usually, when the porous layer of a semiconductor is a porous layer of an n-type
  semiconductor the porous layer of a semiconductor comprises TiO 2. More usually, the
 porous layer comprises mesoporous TiO 2 .
          Often, the porous layer of an n-type semiconductor is in contact with a compact layer
  of an n-type semiconductor. Usually, the compact layer of an n-type semiconductor
  comprises oxide of titanium, tin, zinc, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, indium, gallium,
  neodinium, palladium or cadmium, or a mixture thereof. Typically, the compact layer of an

     WO 2013/171517                             25                            PCT/GB2013/051306
n-type semiconductor comprises TiO 2 . Usually, the compact layer of an n-type
semiconductor has a thickness of from 50 nm to 200 nm, typically a thickness of about
100 nm.
         When the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the hole
transporting material in the optoelectronic device of the invention may be any suitable p-type
or hole-transporting, semiconducting material. Typically, the hole transporting material is a
small molecular or polymer-based hole conductor.
         Typically, when the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the
charge transporting material is a solid state hole transporting material or a liquid electrolyte.
         Often, when the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the
charge transporting material is a polymeric or molecular hole transporter. Typically, the hole
transporting material comprises spiro-OMeTAD (2,2',7,7'-tetrakis-(N,N-di-p
methoxyphenylamine)9,9'-spirobifluorene)), P3HT (poly(3-hexylthiophene)), PCPDTBT
(Poly[2,1,3 -benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl[4,4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4
b']dithiophene-2,6-diyl]]), PVK (poly(N-vinylcarbazole)), HTM-TFSI (1-hexyl-3
methylimidazolium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide), Li-TFSI (lithium
bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide) or tBP (tert-butylpyridine). Usually, the hole
transporting material is selected from spiro-OMeTAD, P3HT, PCPDTBT and PVK.
Preferable, the hole transporting material is spiro-OMeTAD.
         When the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the charge
 transporting material may, for instance, be a molecular hole transporter, or a polymer or
 copolymers. Often, the charge transporting material is a molecular hole transporting
 material, a polymer or copolymer comprises one or more of the following moieties:
 thiophenyl, phenelenyl, dithiazolyl, benzothiazolyl, diketopyrrolopyrrolyl,
 ethoxydithiophenyl, amino, triphenyl amino, carbozolyl, ethylene dioxythiophenyl,
 dioxythiophenyl, or fluorenyl.
         Alternatively, when the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material,
 the charge transporting material may be an inorganic hole transporter, for instance, Cul,
 CuBr, CuSCN, Cu 2O, CuO or CIS.
         In one embodiment, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, the porous layer of
 a semiconductor has a thickness of from 50 nm to 3 tm, for instance the thickness may be

     WO 2013/171517                              26                             PCT/GB2013/051306
from 100 nm to 2 pm. Often, the porous layer of an n-type semiconductor has a thickness of
0.6 gm.
        Typically, in the optoelectronic device of the invention, the distance between the
second electrode and the porous layer of an n-type semiconductor is from 50 nm to 400 nm,
more typically from 150 nm to 250 nm. Often, the distance between the second electrode and
the porous layer of an n-type semiconductor is around 200 rnm.
        Often, the optoelectronic device of the invention is a photovoltaic device, wherein the
AM1.5G 100mWcm- power conversion efficiency of the device is equal to or greater than
7.3 %. Typically, the AM1.5G 100mWcm- power conversion efficiency of the device is
equal to or greater than 11.5 %.
        Typically, the optoelectronic device of the invention is a photovoltaic device, wherein
the photocurrent is equal to or greater than 15 mAcm 2 . More typically, the optoelectronic
device of the invention is a photovoltaic device, wherein the photocurrent is equal to or
greater than 20 mAcm 2 .
        Usually, in the optoelectronic device of the invention the perovskite does not
decompose when exposed to oxygen or moisture for a period of time equal to or greater than
10 minutes. Typically, the perovskite does not decompose when exposed to oxygen or
moisture for a period of time equal to or greater than 24 hours.
        The invention further provides a mixed-halide perovskite of the formula (I)
                                        [A][B][X] 3             (I)
wherein:
        [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (R1R2R3R4 N)*, wherein:
                (i) Ri is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
                (ii) R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
                (iii) R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl; and

     WO 2013/171517                              27                             PCT/GB2013/051306
                 (iv) R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
        [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
        [X] is said two or more different halide anions.
        Usually, the following proviso apply:
        (i) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Sn2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise: (a) a chloride ion and a
bromide ion, or (b) a bromide ion and an iodide ion; and
        (ii) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH3 )* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Pb2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise a chloride ion and a bromide
ion.
        Often, the mixed-halide perovskite is a mixed-halide perovskite of the formula (I)
                                        [A][B][X] 3            (I)
wherein:
        [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (RiR 2 R3 R4N)*, wherein:
                (i) R1 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
                (ii) R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
                (iii) R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl; and
                (iv) R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
        [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
        [X] is said two or more different halide anions.
       Usually, the following proviso apply:

     WO 2013/171517                              28                             PCT/GB2013/051306
        (i) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Sn2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise: (a) a chloride ion and a
bromide ion, (b) a bromide ion and an iodide ion; or (c) a chloride ion and an iodide ion; and
        (ii) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH 3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Pb 2+,the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise a chloride ion and a bromide
ion.
        Often, the mixed-halide perovskite is a mixed-halide perovskite of the formula (I)
                                         [A][B][X] 3            (I)
wherein:
        [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (RiR 2R3R4N)*, wherein:
                (i) R1 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C-C   20  alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
                (ii) R 2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
                (iii) R 3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C-C  20 alkyl,  or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl; and
                (iv) R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2o alkyl, or unsubstituted
or substituted aryl;
        [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
        [X] is said two or more different halide anions.
        provided that (i) when [A] is a single organic cation which is (CH3NH 3)* and [B] is a
single metal cation which is Sn2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise: (a) a
chloride ion and a bromide ion, or (b) a bromide ion and an iodide ion; and (ii) when [A] is a
single organic cation which is (CH 3NH 3)* and [B] is a single metal cation which is Pb2 +, the
mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise a chloride ion and a bromide ion.
        The perovskite of the formula (I) may comprise one, two three, or four different
divalent metal cations, typically one or two different divalent metal cations. The perovskite

     WO 2013/171517                              29                                PCT/GB2013/051306
of the formula (I), may, for instance, comprise one, two, three or four different organic
cations of the formula (RiR 2R 3R 4N)*, typically one or two different organic cations of the
formula (RiR 2R 3R 4N)*. The perovskite of the formula (I) may, for instance, comprise two,
three or four different halide anions, typically two or three different halide anions.
         Often, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention, when [B] is a single metal
cation which is Pb , one of said two or more different halide anions is iodide or fluoride; and
when [B] is a single metal cation which is Sn 2 + one of said two or more different halide
anions is fluoride.
        Typically, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention, one of said two or more
different halide anions is iodide or fluoride.
        Usually, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention, one of said two or more
different halide anions is fluoride.
         Typically, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention [X] is two different halide
anions X and X'. Typically, they are two or three halide anions, more typically, two different
halide anions. Usually the halide anions are selected from fluoride, chloride, bromide and
iodide, for instance chloride, bromide and iodide. Alternatively, [X] may be three different
halide ions.
         Usually, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention [B] is at least one divalent
metal cation selected from Ca2 +, Sr 2 , Cd2 , Cu2 +, Ni2 +, Mn 2 +, Fe2 , Co 2 , Pd2 , Ge 2+, Sn2 ,
Pb   , Sn 2+, Yb , and Eu2 +. More usually, [B] is at least one divalent metal cation selected
from Sn2 and Pb2 .
         Typically, [B] is a single divalent metal cation. The single divalent metal cation may
be selected from Ca2 +, Sr2 +, Cd2 +, Cu , Ni , Mn , Fe ,Co2, Pd , Ge             , Sn , Pb    , Sn2,
Yb2 , and Eu 2 +. More usually, [B] is a single divalent metal cation which is Sn 2 or Pb2 .
         Mainly, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention R1 in the organic cation is
hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R 2 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R3 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl,
 and R4 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl. For instance R, may be hydrogen or methyl, R 2 may be
hydrogen or methyl, R3 may be hydrogen or methyl, and R4 may be hydrogen or methyl.

      WO 2013/171517                             30                            PCT/GB2013/051306
        Typically, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention the organic cation of the
formula (R 5NH 3 )*, wherein R5 is hydrogen, or unsubstituted or substituted C-C   20 alkyl. R5
may, for instance, be methyl or ethyl. Typically, R5 is methyl.
        In one embodiment, the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention is a perovskite
compound of formula (II):
                                         ABX3.yX'y             (II)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation;
        B is a divalent metal cation;
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
        y is from 0.05 to 2.95.
        provided that:
         (i) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3 NH3 )* and B is a divalent metal cation
 which is Sn 2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise: (a) a chloride ion and a
 bromide ion, or (b) a bromide ion and an iodide ion; and
         (ii) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
 which is Pb2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise a chloride ion and a bromide
 ion.
         Usually, y is from 0.5 to 2.5, for instance from 0.75 to 2.25. Typically, y is from I to
 2.
         Typically, X is iodide and X' is fluoride or chloride, or X is fluoride and X' is
 chloride, bromide or iodide.
          Often X or X' is iodide.
          Typically, B is other than Sn 2 +

     WO 2013/171517                              31                            PCT/GB2013/051306
        Usually, in the mixed- halide perovskite of the invention, X is iodide and X' is
fluoride or chloride.
        More usually, X or X' is fluoride.
        Typically, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention, B is Sn2+
        Alternatively, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention, B is Pb2+
        The mixed-halide perovskite of the invention is often selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2,
CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 , CH 3NH 3PbICl 2, CH 3 NH 3 PbI2 Cl, CH 3NH 3SnF 2Br, CH 3NH 3 SnICl 2,
CH 3NH 3 SnF2I, CH 3NH 3SnI 2 CJ and CH 3NH 3 SnF2Cl. More often, the mixed-halide
perovskite of the invention is often selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2 , CH 3NH3PbIBr 2,
CH 3NH 3PbICl 2, CH 3NH3PbI2Cl, CH 3NH3 SnF2 Br, CH 3NH3 SnF 2I and CH 3NH 3 SnF 2Cl.
Usually, the perovskite is selected from CH 3NH3PbBrI 2, CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 , CH 3 NH3 PbICl2 ,
CH 3NH 3 SnF2Br, and CH 3NH 3 SnF2 1.
        Usually, the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention does not decompose when
exposed to oxygen or moisture for a period of time equal to or greater than 10 minutes.
Typically, the perovskite does not decompose when exposed to oxygen or moisture for a
period of time equal to or greater than 24 hours.
        The invention further provides mixed-halide perovskite of the formula (I)
                                        [A][B][X] 3            (I)
wherein:
         [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein:
        (i) R 5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        (ii) R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        (iii) R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and

     WO 2013/171517                              32                             PCT/GB2013/051306
        (iv)    R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C-C    20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl:
        [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
        [X] is two or more different halide anions.
        The perovskite of the formula (I) may comprise one, two three, or four different
divalent metal cations, typically one or two different divalent metal cations. The perovskite
of the formula (I), may, for instance, comprise one, two, three or four different organic
cations of the formula (R 5R 6N=CH-NR 7 R8 )*, typically one or two different organic cations of
the formula (R5R 6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*. The perovskite of the formula (I) may, for instance,
comprise two, three or four different halide anions, typically two or three different halide
anions.
        Typically, [X] is two different halide anions X and X'. Typically, they are two or
three halide anions, more typically, two different halide anions. Usually the halide anions are
selected from fluoride, chloride, bromide and iodide, for instance chloride, bromide and
iodide. The halide anions may, for instance, be iodine and bromine. Alternatively, [X] may
be three different halide ions.
        Usually, [B] is at least one divalent metal cation selected from Ca2 +, Sr2+, Cd 2+, Cu2+,
Ni2+, Mn2+, Fe2+, C02+, Pd2+, Ge2+, Sn 2+, Pb2+, Sn 2+, Yb2+, and Eu 2+. More usually, [B] is at
least one divalent metal cation selected from Sn2 + and Pb2 +, for instance, Pb2 +
        Typically, [B] is a single divalent metal cation. The single divalent metal cation may
be selected from Ca2+, Sr2+, Cd2 +, Cu2+, Ni2+, Mn2+, Fe2+, Co2 +, Pd2+, Ge 2 +, Sn 2+, Pb2+, Sn2+,
Yb2+, and Eu2+. More usually, [B] is a single divalent metal cation which is Sn 2+ or Pb2+, for
instance, Pb2+.
        Mainly, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention R5 in the organic cation is
hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R 6 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R 7 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl,
and R8 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl. For instance R 5 may be hydrogen or methyl, R 6 may be
hydrogen or methyl, R 7 may be hydrogen or methyl, and R 8 may be hydrogen or methyl.
        Typically, in the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention the organic cation of the
formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)+.

      WO 2013/171517                                33                          PCT/GB2013/051306
        In one embodiment, the mixed-halide perovskite is a perovskite compound of formula
(Ila):
                                          ABX3zX'3(1-z)          (Ila)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation of the formula (R 5R 6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein:
        (i) R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        (ii) R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        (iii) R 7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
        (iv) R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        B is an metal cation selected from Sn 2+ and Pb;2+
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
        z is greater than 0 and less than 1.
        Usually, z is from 0.05 to 0.95, for instance, from 0.1 to 0.9. z may, for instance, be
0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 or 0.9, or z may be a range of from any one of these values
to any other of these values (for instance from 0.2 to 0.7, or from 0.1 to 0.8).
        Typically, X is iodide and X' is fluoride, bromide or chloride, for instance, X is iodide
and X' is bromide.
        Typically, B is Pb2 +
        Usually, the organic cation is (R5 R 6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein: R 5 , R 6 , R 7 and R8 are
independently selected from hydrogen and unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C6 alkyl. For
instance, the organic cation may be (H2N=CH-NH 2)+.

     WO 2013/171517                             34                             PCT/GB2013/051306
        The mixed-halide perovskite may, for instance, have the formula:
(H2N=CHNH 2)PbI 3zBr 3(-z), wherein z is greater than 0 and less than 1. Usually, z is from
0.05 to 0.95, for instance, from 0.1 to 0.9. z may, for instance, be 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6,
0.7, 0.8 or 0.9, or z may be a range of from any one of these values to any other of these
values (for instance z may be from 0.2 to 0.7, or from 0.1 to 0.8).
        Usually, the mixed-halide perovskite of the invention does not decompose when
exposed to oxygen or moisture for a period of time equal to or greater than 10 minutes.
Typically, the perovskite does not decompose when exposed to oxygen or moisture for a
period of time equal to or greater than 24 hours.
        The invention further provides the use of a mixed-anion perovskite as a sensitizer in
an optoelectronic device, wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or more
different anions selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions. The perovskite is a
perovskite as defined herein.
        Often, in the use of the invention, the optoelectronic device is a photovoltaic device.
        Alternatively, in the use of the invention, the optoelectronic device is a light-emitting
device, for instance a light-emitting diode.
        Usually, the optoelectronic device of the invention is a photovoltaic device, wherein
the AMI.5G 100mWcm 2 power conversion efficiency of the device is equal to or greater
than 7.3 %. Typically, the AMI.5G 100mWem- power conversion efficiency of the device
is equal to or greater than 11.5 %.
        Typically, the optoelectronic device of the invention is a photovoltaic device, wherein
                                                        -2
the photocurrent is equal to or greater than 15 mAcm . More typically, the optoelectronic
device of the invention is a photovoltaic device, wherein the photocurrent is equal to or
greater than 20 mAcm-.2
        The invention also provides a photosensitizing material for an optoelectronic device
comprising a mixed-anion perovskite wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or
more different anions selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions. The perovskite is
a perovskite as defined herein.

     WO 2013/171517                                35                           PCT/GB2013/051306
        The optoelectronic device of the invention may further comprise encapsulated metal
nanoparticles. For instance, the optoelectronic device of the invention may further comprise
encapsulated metal nanoparticles disposed between the first and second electrodes.
        The mixed-anion perovskites used in the devices of the invention, i.e., the perovskites
which comprise two or more different anions selected from halide anions and chalcogenide
anions, can be produced by a process comprising mixing:
        (a) a first compound comprising (i) a first cation and (ii) a first anion; with
        (b) a second compound comprising (i) a second cation and (ii) a second anion,:
        wherein:
        the first and second cations are as herein defined; and
        the first and second anions are different anions selected from halide anions and
chalcogenide anions. Typically, the first and second anions are different anions selected from
halide anions.
        Alternatively the process may comprising (1) treating: (a) a first compound
comprising (i) a first cation and (ii) a first anion; with (b) a second compound comprising (i)
a second cation and (ii) a first anion, to produce a first product, wherein: the first and second
cations are as herein defined; and the first anion is selected from halide anions and
chalcogenide anions; and (2) treating (a) a first compound comprising (i) a first cation and (ii)
a second anion; with (b) a second compound comprising (i) a second cation and (ii) a second
anion, to produce a second product, wherein: the first and second cations are as herein
defined; and the second anion is selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions.
Usually, the first and second anions are different anions selected from halide anions and
chalcogenide anions. Typically, the first and second anions are different anions selected from
halide anions. The process usually further comprises treating a first amount of the first
product with a second amount of the second product, wherein the first and second amounts
may be the same or different.
        The mixed-anion perovskite produced by the process may comprise further cations or
further anions. For example, the mixed-anion perovskite may comprise two, three or four
different cations, or two, three of four different anions. The process for producing the mixed
anion perovskite may therefore comprise mixing further compounds comprising a further

     WO 2013/171517                              36                              PCT/GB2013/051306
cation or a further anion. Additionally or alternatively, the process for producing the mixed
anion perovskite may comprise mixing (a) and (b) with: (c) a third compound comprising (i)
the first cation and (ii) the second anion; or (d) a fourth compound comprising (i) the second
cation and (ii) the first anion.
         Typically, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the second cation
in the mixed-anion perovskite is a metal cation. More typically, the second cation is a
divalent metal cation. For instance, the first cation may be selected from Ca2 +, Sr2+,Cd2 +
Cu2+, Ni2+,   Mn2+, Fe2+, C02+, Pd2+, Ge2+, Sn 2+, Pb2+, Sn 2 +, y2+ and Eu2 +. Usually, the second
cation is selected from Sn 2+ and Pb2 .
         Often, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the first cation in the
mixed-anion perovskite is an organic cation.
         Usually, the organic cation has the formula (RiR 2R3R4N)*, wherein:
         R1 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
         R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl.
         Mainly, in the organic cation, R1 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, R2 is hydrogen, methyl
or ethyl, R3 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, and R4 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl. For instance
R1 may be hydrogen or methyl, R2 may be hydrogen or methyl, R3 may be hydrogen or
methyl, and R4 may be hydrogen or methyl.
         Alternatively, the organic cation may have the formula (R5NH 3 )*, wherein: R5 is
hydrogen, or unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl. For instance, R5 may be methyl or
ethyl. Typically, R5 is methyl.
         In another embodiment, the organic cation has the formula (R5R 6N=CH-NR 7R8 )+,
wherein: R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or

     WO 2013/171517                               37                           PCT/GB2013/051306
substituted aryl; R3is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and R is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C2 0 alkyl, or
unsubstituted or substituted aryl. The organic cation may, for instance, be (R5R6N=CH
NR 7R8 )*, wherein: R5 , R6 , R 7 and R 8 are independently selected from hydrogen, unsubstituted
or substituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl, and unsubstituted or substituted aryl. For instance, the organic
cation may be (H2N=CH-NH 2) .
        In the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the perovskite is usually a
mixed-halide perovskite, wherein said two or more different anions are two or more different
halide anions.
        Typically, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the perovskite is a
perovskite compound of the formula (I):
                                           [A][B][X] 3           (I)
wherein:
         [A] is at least one organic cation;
         [B] is at least one metal cation; and
         [X] is said two or more different anions; and
the process comprises mixing:
         (a) a first compound comprising (i) a metal cation and (ii) a first anion; with
         (b) a second compound comprising (i) an organic cation and (ii) a second anion,:
         wherein:
         the first and second anions are different anions selected from halide anions or
chalcogenide anions.
         The perovskite of the formula (I) may, for instance, comprise one, two, three or four
 different metal cations, typically one or two different metal cations. The perovskite of the
 formula (I), may, for instance, comprise one, two, three or four different organic cations,
 typically one or two different organic cations. The perovskite of the formula (I), may, for

      WO 2013/171517                             38                            PCT/GB2013/051306
instance, comprise two, three or four different anions, typically two or three different anions.
The process may, therefore, comprising mixing further compounds comprising a cation and
an anion.
         Typically, [X] is two or more different halide anions. The first and second anions are
thus typically halide anions. Alternatively, [X] may be three different halide ions. Thus the
process may comprise mixing a third compound with the first and second compound, wherein
the third compound comprises (i) a cation and (ii) a third halide anion, where the third anion
is a different halide anion from the first and second halide anions.
         Often, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the perovskite is a
perovskite compound of the formula (IA):
                                         AB[X] 3                        (IA)
 wherein:
         A is an organic cation;
         B is a metal cation; and
          [X] is said two or more different anions.
 the process comprises mixing:
          (a) a first compound comprising (i) a metal cation and (ii) a first halide anion; with
          (b) a second compound comprising (i) an organic cation and (ii) a second halide
  anion:
  wherein:
          the first and second halide anions are different halide anions.
          Usually, [X] is two or more different halide anions. Preferably, [X] is two or three
  different halide anions. More preferably, [X] is two different halide anions. In another
  embodiment [X] is three different halide anions.
           Typically, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the perovskite is a
  perovskite compound of formula (II):

      WO 2013/171517                              39                          PCT/GB2013/051306
                                         ABX3-yX'y             (I
wherein:
        A is an organic cation;
        B is a metal cation;
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
        y is from 0.05 to 2.95; and
the process comprises mixing:
         (a) a first compound comprising (i) a metal cation and (ii) X; with
         (b) a second compound comprising (i) an organic cation and (ii) X':
wherein X' is different from X; and
 wherein the ratio of X to X' in the mixture is equal to (3-y):y.
         In order to achieve said ratio of X to X' equal to (3-y):y, the process may comprise
 mixing a further compound with the first and second compounds. For example, the process
 may comprise mixing a third compound with the first and second compounds, wherein the
 third compound comprises (i) the metal cation and (ii) X'. Alternative, the process may
 comprising mixing a third compound with the first and second compounds, wherein the third
 compound comprises (i) the organic cation and (ii) X.
          Usually, y is from 0.5 to 2.5, for instance from 0.75 to 2.25. Typically, y is from 1 to
  2.
          Typically, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the first
  compound is BX 2 and the second compound is AX'.
          Often the second compound is produce by reacting a compound of the formula
  (R 5NH 2 ), wherein: R5 is hydrogen, or unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, with a
  compound of formula HX'. Typically, R5 may be methyl or ethyl, often R5 is methyl.

     WO 2013/171517                               40                           PCT/GB2013/051306
                                                                                             are
         Usually, the compound of formula (R 5NH2) and the compound of formula HX'
                                                                                             and
reacted in a 1:1 molar ratio. Often, the reaction takes place under nitrogen atmosphere
                                                                                           More
usually in anhydrous ethanol. Typically, the anhydrous ethanol is about 200 proof.
                                                               NH ) is reacted with about 15 to
typically from 15 to 30 ml of the compound of formula (R5 2
                                                                                         ethanol.
 15 ml of HX', usually under nitrogen atmosphere in from 50 to 150 ml anhydrous
                                                                                         A rotary
 The process may also comprise a step of recovering said mixed-anion perovskite.
 evaporator is often used to extract crystalline AX'.
          Usually, the step of mixing the first and second compounds is a step of dissolving the
                                                                                     be dissolved
 first and second compounds in a solvent. The first and second compounds may
                                                                                  is
 in a ratio of from 1:20 to 20:1, typically a ratio of 1:1. Typically the solvent
 dimethylformamide (DMF) or water. When the metal cation is Pb2+ the solvent is usually
                                                       2                       water. The use of
 dimethylformamide. When the metal cation is Sn +the solvent is usually
                                                                                 volatile.
 DMF or water as the solvent is advantageous as these solvents are not very
                                                                                     single metal
          Often, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, [B] is a
  cation which is Pb2 +, one of said two or more different halide anions is iodide or fluoride; and
                                                                                        halide
  when [B] is a single metal cation which is Sn + one of said two or more different
                                                   2
  anions is fluoride.
                                                                                 X or X' is iodide.
           Typically, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite
  Alternatively, X or X' is fluoride.
                                                                                              is a
           Often, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the perovskite
                                                                      NH PbIBr 2, CH 3NH 3PbICl 2,
   perovskite selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2, CH 3NH3PbBrCl2, CH 3 3
                                                                                 NH SnF 2Br,
   CH 3NH 3PbClBr2, CH 3NH3PbI2Cl, CH 3NH 3SnBrI2, CH 3NH 3 SnBrCI 2, CH 3 3
                                                                         , CH 3NH 3 SnI 2C1 and
   CH NH SnIBr2, CH 3NH3 SnICl2, CH 3NH3 SnF 2I, CH 3NH3 SnClBr 2
       3    3
   CH 3NH 3 SnF2Cl. Typically, the perovskite is selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2,
                                                                             CH 3NH 3PbI2 Cl,
   CH 3NH 3PbBrCl2, CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 , CH 3NH 3PbICl 2, CH 3NH 3PbClBr 2 ,
                                                                     C1 and CH 3NH3 SnF 2Cl. More
   CH 3NH 3SnF 2Br, CH 3NH 3 SnICl 2 , CH 3NH3 SnF 2I, CH 3NH3 SnI2
                                                                         PbBrCl2, CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 ,
   typically, the perovskite is selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2, CH 3NH 3
                                                                  SnF2Br, CH 3NH 3SnF 2I and
    CH 3NH3 PbICl2 , CH 3NH3PbClBr2, CH 3NH 3PbI2Cl, CH 3NH3
                                                                                  CH 3NH 3PbBrCl2,
    CH 3NH 3SnF 2Cl. Usually, the perovskite is selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2,
    CH 3NH3PbIBr2, CH 3NH 3PbICl2, CH 3NH 3 SnF2Br, and CH 3NH 3SnF2 1.

      WO 2013/171517                                                           PCT/GB2013/051306
         In some embodiments, in the process for producing the mixed-anion perovskite, the
perovskite is a perovskite compound of formula (Ila):
                                         ABX 3 zX' 3 (1-z)      (Ila)
wherein:
          A is an organic cation of the formula (R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein: (i) R5 is
hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl; (ii)
R 6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted aryl;
(iii) R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted
aryl; and (iv) R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
 substituted aryl;
          B is a metal cation selected from Sn2+ and Pb2+
          X is a first halide anion;
          X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
          z is greater than 0 and less than 1;
 and the process comprises:
                                                                                             second
 (1) treating: (a) a first compound comprising (i) the metal cation and (ii) X, with (b) a
 compound comprising (i) the organic cation and (ii) X, to produce a first product;
 (2) treating: (a) a first compound comprising (i) the metal cation and (ii) X', with (b) a second
  compound comprising (i) the organic cation and (ii) X', to produce a second product; and
  (3) treating a first amount of the first product with a second amount of the second product,
  wherein the first and second amounts may be the same or different.
           Usually z is from 0.05 to 0.95. z may be as further defined hereinbefore.
           In the process for producing a mixed-anion perovskite, the perovskite may, for
  instance, have the formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)PbI3zBr 3(1-z), wherein z is as defined hereinabove.
           The process for producing an optoelectronic device is usually a process for producing
   a device selected from: a photovoltaic device; a photodiode; a phototransistor; a
   photomultiplier; a photo resistor; a photo detector; a light-sensitive detector; solid-state

     WO 2013/171517                                                           PCT/GB2013/051306
triode; a battery electrode; a light-emitting device; a light-emitting diode; a transistor; a solar
                                                                          device is a photovoltaic
cell; a laser; and a diode injection laser. Typically, the optoelectronic
device.
         Usually, the process for producing an optoelectronic device is usually a process for
producing a photovoltaic device. More usually, the device is a solar cell.
          Alternatively, process for producing an optoelectronic device may be a process for
 producing a light-emitting device, for instance a light-emitting diode.
                                                                                              device
          The process for producing an optoelectronic device, wherein the optoelectronic
 comprises:
          a first electrode;
          a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
          (a) said perovskite.
 is usually a process comprising:
           (i) providing a first electrode;
           (ii) depositing said perovskite; and
           (iii) providing a second electrode.
           As the skilled person will appreciate, the process for producing an optoelectronic
  device will vary depending on the optoelectronic device being made, and in particular
                                                                           which is discusses
  depending upon the different components of the device. The process
                                                                                          comprises:
  below and exemplified is a process for producing an optoelectronic device which
                                                                                       electrodes:
  a first electrode; a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second
                                                                               as the skilled person
  (a) an n-type layer; (b) said perovskite; and (c) a p-type layer. However,
  will appreciate, the same process may be used to produce other devices of the invention,
  having different components and different layer structures. These include, for instance,
                                                                                           electrode;
   optoelectronic devices of the invention which comprise: a first electrode; a second
   and, disposed between the first and second electrodes: (a) a thin film comprising said
                                                                    produce optoelectronic devices
   perovskite. Also, the process described herein can be used to
                                                                              the first and second
   comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; and, disposed between

     WO 2013/171517                             43                           PCT/GB2013/051306
electrodes: (a) a layer of a semiconductor; and (b) said perovskite, or optoelectronic devices
                                                                           the first and second
comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; and, disposed between
electrodes: (a) an n-type layer; and (b) said perovskite, or optoelectronic devices may
                                                                                first and second
comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; and, disposed between the
electrodes: (a) a p-type layer; and (b) said perovskite.
                  The process for producing an optoelectronic device, wherein the
optoelectronic device comprises:
         a first electrode;
         a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
         (a) an n-type layer;
         (b) said perovskite; and
         (c) a p-type layer;
 is usually a process comprising:
          (i) providing a first electrode;
          (ii) depositing a layer of an n-type material;
          (iii) depositing said perovskite;
          (iv) depositing a layer of of p-type material; and
           (v) providing a second electrode.
                                                                                                is
           The first and second electrodes are an anode and a cathode, one or both of which
                                                                                             of the
  transparent to allow the ingress of light. The choice of the first and second electrodes
  optoelectronic devices of the present invention may depend on the structure type. Typically,
                                                                                         tin oxide
  the n-type layer is deposited onto a tin oxide, more typically onto a fluorine-doped
                                                                      material. Thus, the first
  (FTO) anode, which is usually a transparent or semi-transparent
  electrode is usually transparent or semi-transparent and typically comprises FTO. Usually,
                                                                                        300 to
  the thickness of the first electrode is from 200 nm to 600 nm, more usually, from
   500 nm. For example the thickness may be 400 nm. Typically, FTO is coated onto a glass
                                                                                          to produce
   sheet. Often, the TFO coated glass sheets are etched with zinc powder and an acid

     WO 2013/171517                                                                  PCT/GB2013/051306
                                                                                                           is
the required electrode pattern. Usually the acid is HCl. Often the concentration of the HCl
about 2 molar. Typically, the sheets are cleaned and then usually treated under oxygen
                                                                                oxygen plasma is for
plasma to remove any organic residues. Usually, the treatment under
less than or equal to 1 hour, typically about 5 minutes.
         Usually, the second electrode comprises a high work function metal, for instance
                                                                                    the thickness of the
 gold, silver, nickel, palladium or platinum, and typically silver. Usually,
 second electrode is from 50 nm to 250 nm, more usually from 100 nm to 200 inm. For
 example, the thickness of the second electrode may be 150 nm.
          Usually, the n-type layer comprises a metal oxide semiconductor and the p-type layer
                                                                                    and the hole
 comprises a hole transporting material. The metal oxide semiconductor
 transporting material are as herein defined.
           Alternatively, the p-type layer comprises a metal oxide semiconductor and the n-type
                                                                               metal oxide
 layer comprises an electron transporting material. For instance, the
 semiconductor may comprise an oxide of nickel, molybdenum, copper or vanadium, or a
 mixture thereof. Often, the electron transporting material comprises a fullerene or perylene,
                                                                                                material
  or derivatives thereof, or P(NDI2OD-T2)). For instance, the electron transporting
  may be P(NDI2OD-T2).
           In one embodiment, the optoelectronic device may be a thin film device. Usually, the
                                                                       telluride. Often, the metal
  n-type layer will comprise a metal oxide, sulphide, selenide or
  oxide will be oxide an oxide of titanium, tin, zinc, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, indium,
                                                                                                 n-type
  gallium, neodinium, palladium or cadmium, or a mixture thereof. For instance, the
                                                                             , In203, Ga2 0 3 , Nd 2 0 3 ,
  layer may comprise TiO 2 , SnO 2 , ZnO, Nb 2 0 5, Ta2 0 5 , W0 3 , W 2 0 5
                                                                                   will be a sulphide of
  PbO, or CdO. Often, the metal oxide is TiO 2 . Typically, the sulphide
   cadmium, tin, copper, zinc or a mixture thereof. For instance, the sulphide may be FeS 2 , CdS
   or Cu 2 ZnSnS4 . Usually, the selenide will be a selenide of cadmium,
                                                                                 zinc, indium or gallium
   or a mixture thereof. For instance, the selenide may be Cu(In,Ga)Se2. Typically, the
   tellenide is a tellenide of cadmium, zinc, cadmium or tin. For instance, the tellenide may be
   CdTe.
            The optoelectronic device may comprise a tunnel junction. For instance, the
                                                                    tandem cell.
   optoelectronic device may be a multi-junction solar cell or

     WO 2013/171517                               45                             PCT/GB2013/051306
         In one embodiment of the process for producing the photovoltaic device, the device
comprising:
         a first electrode;
         a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
         (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor;
         (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite; and
          (c) a charge transporting material; and
the process comprises:
          (i) providing a first electrode;
           (ii) depositing a porous layer of a semiconductor;
           (iii) depositing a sensitizer comprising said perovskite;
           (iv) depositing a charge transporting material; and
           (v) providing a second electrode.
           Usually, the porous layer of a semiconductor comprises an oxide of titanium,
                                                                               mixture of oxides of
 aluminium, tin, zinc or magnesium. The porous layer may comprise a
                                                                                  comprises oxide an
 titanium, aluminium, tin, zinc or magnesium. Typically, the porous layer
 oxide of titanium, tin, zinc, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, indium, gallium, neodinium,
                                                                             may comprise TiO 2 ,
 palladium or cadmium, or a mixture thereof. For instance, the layer
  SnO , ZnO, Nb 20 5 , Ta 2O5 , W0 3, W 20 5 , 1n203, Ga 20 3, Nd 20 3, PbO, or CdO.
                                                                                      Typically, the
       2
                                                                          the porous layer of a
  porous layer of a semiconductor comprises TiO 2 . More typically,
  semiconductor comprises mesoporous TiO 2 .
                                                                                          oxide.
            A metal oxide paste is typically used to produce the porous layer of metal
                                                                                porous layer of a
  More typically, TiO2 nanoparticle paste is used. The deposition of the
  semiconductor usually comprises a step doctor-blade coating, screen printing or spin-coating
                                                                  has a thickness of from 50 nm to 3
  the paste. The porous layer of a semiconductor is usually
                                                                                           of the layer
   [tm, for instance the thickness may be from 200 nm to 2 [tm. Often, the thickness
                                                                          of an n-type semiconductor,
   may be 0.6 tm. Usually, in the step of depositing a porous layer

       WO 2013/171517                             46                           PCT/GB2013/051306
                                                                0
the layer is heated to a first temperature of from 400 to 600 C, typically to a temperature of
about 500*C. The temperature of the porous layer of a semiconductor is ramped up slowly to
the first temperature, typically over a period of time of from 15 to 45 minutes, typically over
about 30 minute.
                                                                                        comprises
           Typically, the step of depositing a porous layer of a semiconductor further
 a step of surface treating the layer of an a semiconductor. The surface treatment step may be
 used to improve the packing of said sensitizer of the layer of a semiconductor. Additionally
 or alternatively, the surface treatment step may be to provide a blocking layer between said
 sensitizer of the layer of a semiconductor. A self-assembled monolayer of C60 may be used
 as said blocking layer. Often, the compositions used in the surface treatment step may be
 selected from C60 , a metal chloride, a metal oxide, a dye and CDCA. The metal oxide, may,
 for instance, be selected from MgO, SiO 2 , NiO and A120 3 . Often, the metal chloride has the
                                                            4
 formula MY 4 , wherein M is a metal cation, typically Ti * and X is a halide anion, typically
 chloride. Usually, the layer of a semiconductor is placed in a solution of the metal chloride.
                                                                                               More
  Often, the solution is a solution of from 0.005 to 0.03 M of aqueous solution of TiCl 4 .
  often, the solution is a solution of about 0.015 M of aqueous solution of TiCl 4 . Usually, the
  layer of an n-type semiconductor is placed in the solution for from 30 minutes to 2 hours,
                                                                                       50 to 100*C,
  typically for about I hour. Usually, the solution is at a first temperature of from
                                                                                          solution
  usually about 70'C. Often, after the layer of a semiconductor has been placed in a
  of formula MY 4 , the layer is washed, typically with deionised water. The layer of a
                                                                                          least
   semiconductor may then be dried in air and/or heated to a second temperature of at
                                                                                               of a
   500'C, typically to a second temperature of from 500 to 600'C. For instance, the layer
                                                                                            an n
   semiconductor may be heated to a second temperature of about 500'C. The layer of
                                                                         for a period of at least 30
   type semiconductor may be left to dwell at the second temperature
                                                                                          minutes.
   minutes. Typically the dwell time is from 30 minutes to 2 hours, usually about 45
                                                                                                    to
   Often, when the layer of a semiconductor is at the second temperature, the layer is exposed
                                                                                                 of
    a flow of air. Usually, the layer of a semiconductor is then cooled to a third temperature
                                                                                             a
    from 50 to 150'C, typically a third temperature of about 70'C. Usually, the layer of
    semiconductor is then left is a dye solution for a period of from 5 hours to 24 hours, typically
    a period of about 12 hours.
            The layer of a semiconductor is typically deposited onto a compact layer of a
     semiconductor. Usually, the compact layer of a semiconductor comprises an oxide of
                                                                                                or
    titanium, tin, zinc, niobium, tantalum, tungsten, indium, gallium, neodinium, palladium

      WO 2013/171517                                                                    PCT/GB2013/051306
 cadmium, or a mixture thereof. For instance, the layer may comprise TiO 2 , SnO2 , ZnO,
 Nb2 0 5, Ta2 0 5 , W0 3 , W 2 0 5 , 111203, Ga 20 3 , Nd 2 0 3 , PbO, or CdO. Typically, the compact
 layer of a semiconductor comprises TiO 2. Often, the compact layer is deposited on the first
 electrode. The process for producing the photovoltaic device thus usually comprise a step of
 depositing a compact layer of a semiconductor.
         The step of depositing a compact layer of a semiconductor may, for instance,
 comprise depositing the compact layer of a semiconductor by aerosol spray pyrolysis
 deposition. Typically, the aerosol spray pyrolysis deposition comprises deposition of a
 solution comprising titanium diisopropoxide bis(acetylacetonate), usually at a temperature of
from 200 to 300'C, often at a temperature of about 250'C. Usually the solution comprises
titanium diisopropoxide bis(acetylacetonate) and ethanol, typically in a ratio of from 1:5 to
 1:20, more typically in a ratio of about 1:10.
         Often, the step of depositing a compact layer of a semiconductor is a step of
depositing a compact layer of a semiconductor of thickness from 50 nm to 200 nm, typically
a thickness of about 100 nm.
         In the step of depositing a sensitizer comprising said perovskite, said perovskite is a
perovskite as described herein. The step of depositing a sensitizer comprising said perovskite
usually comprises depositing the sensitizer on the porous layer of a semiconductor. Often,
the step of depositing a sensitizer comprising said perovskite comprises spin coating said
perovskite. The spin coating usually occurs in air, typically at a speed of from 1000 to
2000 rpm, more typically at a speed of about 1500 rpm and/or often for a period of from 15 to
60 seconds, usually for about 30 seconds. The sensitizer is usually placed in a solvent prior
to the spin coating. Usually the solvent is DMF and typically the volume of solution used id
from 1 to 200 1d,more typically from 20 to 100 W. The concentration of the solution is often
of from 1 to 50 vol% perovskite, usually from 5 to 40 vol%. The solution may be, for
instance, dispensed onto the layer of a porous layer of a semiconductor prior to said spin
coating and left for a period of about 5 to 50 second, typically about 20 seconds. After spin
coating the sensitizer the layer of a sensitizer comprising said perovskite is typically placed at
a temperature of from 75 to 125'C, more typically a temperature of about 100 C. The layer
of a sensitizer comprising said perovskite is then usually left at this temperature for a period
of at least 30 minutes, more usually a period of from 30 to 60 minutes. Often, the layer of a
sensitizer comprising said perovskite is left at this temperature for a period of about 45

      WO 2013/171517                            48                            PCT/GB2013/051306
minutes. Typically, the layer of a sensitizer comprising said perovskite will change colour,
for example from light yellow to dark brown. The colour change may be used to indicate the
formation of the desired sensitizer layer.
        Usually, the perovskite is said sensitizer does not decompose when exposed to oxygen
or moisture for a period of time equal to or greater than 10 minutes. Typically, the perovskite
does not decompose when exposed to oxygen or moisture for a period of time equal to or
greater than 24 hours.
        Often the step of depositing a sensitizer comprising said perovskite, may comprise
depositing said perovskite and a single-anion perovskite, wherein said single anion perovskite
comprises a first cation, a second cation and an anion selected from halide anions and
chalcogenide anions; wherein the first and second cations are as herein defined for said
mixed-anion perovskite. For instance, the sensitizer may comprise: CH 3NH 3PbICl 2 and
CH 3NH 3PbI3; CH 3NH3PbICl 2 and CH 3NH 3PbBr 3; CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2 and CH 3NH 3PbI 3; or
CH 3NH3PbBrCl 2 and CH 3NH 3PbBr 3 .
        Alternatively, the step of depositing a sensitizer comprising said perovskite, may
comprise depositing more than one perovskite, wherein each perovskite is a mixed-anion
perovskite, and wherein said mixed-anion perovskite is as herein defined. For instance, the
sensitizer may comprise two or three said perovskites. The sensitizer may comprise two
perovskites wherein both perovskites are mixed-anion perovskites. For instance, the
sensitizer may comprise: CH 3NH 3PbICl 2 and CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 ; CH 3NH 3PbICl2 and
CH 3NH3PbBrI2 ; CH 3NH3PbBrCl 2 and CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 ; or CH 3NH3PbBrCl 2 and
CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2 .
        As a further alternative, the step of depositing a sensitizer comprising said perovskite,
may comprise depositing at least one perovskite, for instance, at least one perovskite having
the formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)PbI 3zBr 3(1-z).
        The step of depositing a charge transporting material usually comprises depositing a
charge transporting material that is a solid state hole transporting material or a liquid
electrolyte. The hole transporting material in the optoelectronic device of the invention may
be any suitable n-type or electron transporting, semiconducting material, or any p-type or
hole-transporting, semiconducting material.

      WO 2013/171517                             49                            PCT/GB2013/051306
         When the charge transporting material is an electron transporting material, the charge
transporting material may comprise a fullerene or perylene, or derivatives thereof,
poly {[N,NO-bis(2-octyldodecyl)-naphthalene- 1,4,5,8-bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl] -alt-5,5 0
(2,20-bithiophene)} (P(NDI2OD-T2)), or an electrolyte.
         When the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the hole
transporting material in the optoelectronic device of the invention may be a small molecular
or polymer-based hole conductor.
         Typically, when the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the
charge transporting material is a solid state hole transporting material or a liquid electrolyte.
         Often, when the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the
charge transporting material is a polymeric or molecular hole transporter. Typically, the hole
transporting material comprises spiro-OMeTAD (2,2',7,7'-tetrakis-(N,N-di-p
methoxyphenylamine)9,9'-spirobifluorene)), P3HT (poly(3-hexylthiophene)), PCPDTBT
(Poly[2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl[4,4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4
b']dithiophene-2,6-diyl]]), PVK (poly(N-vinylcarbazole)), HTM-TFSI (1-hexyl-3
methylimidazolium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide), Li-TFSI (lithium
bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide) or tBP (tert-butylpyridine). Usually, the hole
transporting material is selected from spiro-OMeTAD, P3HT, PCPDTBT and PVK.
Preferable, the hole transporting material is spiro-OMeTAD.
         When the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material, the charge
transporting material may, for instance, be a molecular hole transporter, or a polymer or
copolymers. Often, the charge transporting material is a molecular hole transporting
material, a polymer or copolymer comprises one or more of the following moieties:
thiophenyl, phenelenyl, dithiazolyl, benzothiazolyl, diketopyrrolopyrrolyl,
ethoxydithiophenyl, amino, triphenyl amino, carbozolyl, ethylene dioxythiophenyl,
dioxythiophenyl, or fluorenyl.
         Alternatively, when the charge transporting material is an hole transporting material,
the charge transporting material may be an inorganic hole transporter, for instance, CuI,
CuBr, CuSCN, Cu 2 O, CuO or CIS.
         Prior to the step of depositing a charge transporting material, the charge transporting
material is often dissolved in a solvent, typically chlorobenzene. Usually the concentration of

      WO 2013/171517                            50                            PCT/GB2013/051306
 cholorbenzene is from 150 to 225 mg/ml, more usually the concentration is about 180 mg/ml.
Typically, the charge transporting material is dissolved in the solvent at a temperature of
from 75 to 125'C, more typically at a temperature of about 100 C. Usually the charge
transporting material is dissolved for a period of from 25 minutes to 60 minutes, more usually
a period of about 30 minutes. An additive may be added to the charge transporting material.
The additive may be, for instance, tBP, Li-TFSi, an ionic liquid or an ionic liquid with a
mixed halide(s).
         Usually, the charge transporting material is spiro-OMeTAD. Often, tBP is also added
to the charge transporting material prior to the step of depositing a charge transporting
material. For instance, tBP may be added in a volume to mass ratio of from 1:20 to 1:30
pl/mg tBP:spiro-OMeTAD. Typically, tBP may be added in a volume to mass ratio of 1:26
pl/mg tBP:spiro-OMeTAD. Additionally or alternatively, Li-TFSi may be added to the hole
transporting material prior to the step of depositing a charge transporting material. For
instance, Li-TFSi may be added at a ratio of from 1:5 to 1:20 tl/mg Li-TFSi:spiro-OMeTAD.
Usually Li-TFSi may be added at a ratio of 1:12 pl/mg Li-TFSi:spiro-OMeTAD.
         The step of depositing a charge transporting material often comprises spin coating a
solution comprising the charge transporting material onto the sensitizer material comprising
said perovskite. Usually, prior to spin coating, a small quantity of the solution comprising the
charge transporting material is deposited onto the sensitizer comprising said perovskite. The
small quantity is usually from 5 to 100 pl, more usually from 20 to 70 p1. The solution
comprising the charge transporting material is typically left for a period of at least 5 seconds,
more typically a period of from 5 to 60 seconds, prior to spin coating. For instance, the
solution comprising the charge transporting material be left for a period of about 20 seconds
prior to spin coating. The spin coating of the charge transporting material is usually carried
out at from 500 to 3000 rpm, typically at about 1500 rpm. The spin coating is often carried
our for from 10 to 40 seconds in air, more often for about 25 seconds.
         The step of producing a second electrode usually comprises a step of depositing the
second electrode on to the charge transporting material. Typically, the second electrode is an
electrode comprising silver. Often, the step of producing a second electrode comprises
placing a film comprising the charge transporting material in a thermal evaporator. Usually,
the step of producing a second electrode comprises deposition of the second electrode
through a shadow mask under a high vacuum. Typically, the vacuum is about 10-6 mBar.

     WO 2013/171517                             51                            PCT/GB2013/051306
 The second electrode may, for example, be an electrode of a thickness from 100 to 300 nm.
Typically, the second electrode is an electrode of a thickness from 200 nm.
        Typically, the distance between the second electrode and the porous layer of a
semiconductor is from 50 nm to 400 nm, more typically from 150 nm to 250 nm. Often, the
distance between the second electrode and the porous layer of a semiconductor is around
200 nm.
        Often, the process for producing an the optoelectronic device of the invention is a
process for producing a photovoltaic device, wherein the AM 1.5G 1OOmWcm--2 power
conversion efficiency of the photovoltaic device is equal to or greater than 7.3 %. Typically,
the AMI.5G 100mWcm- power conversion efficiency is equal to or greater than 11.5 %.
        Typically, the process for producing an the optoelectronic device of the invention is a
process for producing a photovoltaic device, wherein the photocurrent of the photovoltaic
device is equal to or greater than 15 mAcm 2 . More typically, the photocurrent is equal to or
greater than 20 mAcm-.2
        The invention will be described further in the Examples which follow.
EXAMPLES
Experimental description:
1. Synthesis of organometal halide perovskites:
1.1. Preparation of methylammonium iodide precursor
        Methylamine (CH 3NH 2) solution 33 wt. %in absolute ethanol (Sigma-Aldrich) was
reacted with hydriodic acid 57 wt. % in water (Sigma-Aldrich) at 1:1 molar ratio under
nitrogen atmosphere in anhydrous ethanol 200 proof (Sigma-Aldrich). Typical quantities
were 24 ml methylamine, 10 ml hydroiodic acid and 100 ml ethanol. Crystallisation of
methylammonium iodide (CHNH 3I) was achieved using a rotary evaporator a white coloured
precipitate was formed indicating successful crystallisation.
        The methylamine can be substituted for other amines, such as ethylamine, n
butylamine, tert-butylamine, octylamine etc. in order to alter the subsequent perovskite
properties. In addition, the hydriodic acid can be substituted with other acids to form different
perovskites, such as hydrochloric acid.

     WO 2013/171517                            52                               PCT/GB2013/051306
1.2. Preparation of methylammonium iodide lead (II) chloride (CH 3NH 3PbCl 21)
perovskite solution
        Methylammonium iodide (CHNH 3I) precipitate and lead (II) chloride (Sigma
Aldrich) was dissolved in dimethylformamide (C3H7 NO) (Sigma-Aldrich) at 1:1 molar ratio
at 20 vol. %.
        For making different perovskites, different precursors, such as different
lead(II)halides or indeed different metals halides all together, such as Sn iodide.
1.3. Generalising the organometal halide perovskite structure
        The perovskite structure is defined as ABX 3 , where A = cation (0,0,0) - ammonium
ion, B = cation (%, %/,%/)- divalent metal ion, and X = anion    (1%2, %, 0) - halogen ion. The
table below indicates possible mixed-anion peroskites.
Fixing: [A] = Methylammonium, [B] = Pb, varying [X]       =  any halogen
Perovskite                        Methylammonium-[X]                    Lead halide (Pb[X] 2 )
CH 3NH3PbBr 3                      CH 3NH 3Br                           PbBr 2
CH 3NH 3PbBrI 2                   CH 3NH 3Br                            PbI2
CH 3NH 3PbBrCI 2                  CH 3NH3 Br                            PbCl 2
CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2                   CH 3NH 3I                             PbBr 2
CH 3NH 3PbI3                      CH 3NH 3 I                            PbI2
CH 3NH 3PbICl2                    CH 3NH 3I                             PbCl 2
CH 3NH 3PbCIBr 2                  CH 3NH3 Cl                            PbBr 2
CH 3NH 3PbI2Cl                    CH 3NH 3Cl                            PbI2
CH 3NH 3PbCl3                     CH 3NH3 Cl                            PbCl 2

     WO 2013/171517                            53                           PCT/GB2013/051306
Fixing: [A]  = Methylammonium, [B] = Sn, varying [X]= any halogen
Perovskite                       Methylammonium-[X]                  Tin halide (Sn[X] 2 )
CH 3NH 3SnBr 3                   CH 3NH3Br                           SnBr 2
CH 3NH 3SnBrI 2                  CH 3NH 3Br                          SnI 2
CH 3NH 3SnBrCI 2                 CH 3NH3Br                           SnCl2
CH 3NH 3SnF 2Br                  CH 3NH3Br                           SnF 2
CH 3NH 3SnIBr 2                  CH 3NH3I                            SnBr 2
CH 3NH 3 SnI 3                   CH 3NH3I                            Sn12
CH 3NH3ISnICl 2                  CH 3NH 3I                           SnCl 2
CH 3NH3 SnF 21                   CH 3NH31                            SnF 2
CH 3NH3 SnCIBr 2                 CH 3 NH3Cl                          SnBr 2
CH 3NH3 SnI 2Cl                  CH 3NH3Cl                           SnI2
CH 3NH3 SnCl 3                   CH 3NH3Cl                           SnCl 2
CH 3NH3 SnF 2Cl                  CH 3 NH3Cl                          SnF2
        [A] may be varied using different organic elements, for example as in Liang et al.,
U.S. Patent 5,882,548, (1999) and Mitzi et al., U.S. Patent 6,429,318, (2002).
1.4     Blended perovskites
Pero'vksite 1                  Perovskite 2                      Outcome
CH 3NH 3PbICl 2                 CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2                  Red
CH 3NH 3PbICl 2                 CH 3NH3PbBrI 2                   Yellow

     WO 2013/171517                            54                            PCT/GB2013/051306
CH 3NH3PbICl 2                    CH 3NH 3PbI3                     Dark brown
CH 3NH 3PbICl 2                   CH 3NH3PbBr 3                    Yellow
Perovksite 1                      Perovskite 2                     Outcome
CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2                  CH 3NH3PbIBr 2                   Yellow
CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2                  CH 3NH3PbBrI2                    Yellow
CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2                  CH 3NH3PbI3                      Brown
CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2                  CH 3NH3PbBr 3                    Yellow
1.5 Stability of mixed-halide perovskites against single-halide perovskites
        The inventors have found that photovoltaic devices comprising a mixed-halide
perovskite do absorb light and operate as solar cells. When fabricating films from the single
halide perovskites in ambient conditions. The perovskites form, but quickly bleach in colour.
This bleaching is likely to be due to the adsorption of water on to the perovskite surface,
which is know to bleach the materials. When the complete solar cells are constructed in
ambient conditions using these single hailde perovskites, they perform very poorly with full
sun light power conversion efficiecnies of under 1%. In contrast, the mixed halide
perovskites can be processed in air, and show negligible colour bleaching during the device
fabrication process. The complete solar cell incorporating the mixed halide perovskites
perform exceptionally well in ambient conditions, with full sun power conversion efficiency
of over 10%.
1.6 Preparation of perovskites comprising a formamidinium cation
        Formamidinium iodide (FOI) and formamidinium bromide (FOBr) were synthesised
by reacting a 0.5M molar solution of formamidinium acetate in ethanol with a 3x molar
excess of hydroiodic acid (for FOI) or hydrobromic acid (for FOBr). The acid was added
dropwise whilst stirring at room temperature, then left stirring for another 10 minutes. Upon
drying at 100 0 C, a yellow-white powder is formed, which is then dried overnight in a vacuum
oven before use. To form FOPbI3 and FOPbBr 3 precursor solutions, FOI and PbI 2 or FOBr

      WO 2013/171517                            55                           PCT/GB2013/051306
 and PbBr 2 were dissolved in anhydrous N,N-dimethylformamide in a 1:1 molar ratio, 0.88
 millimoles of each per ml, to give 0.88M perovskite solutions. To form the FOPbI 3zBr 3(1.z)
perovskite precursors, mixtures were made of the FOPbI3 and FOPbBr 3 0.88M solutions in
the required ratios, where z ranges from 0 to 1.
        Films for characterisation or device fabrication were spin-coated in a nitrogen-filled
 glovebox, and annealed at 170'C for 25 minutes in the nitrogen atmosphere.
2. Cleaning and etching of the electrodes:
        The perovskite solar cells used and presented in these examples were fabricated as
follows: Fluorine doped tin oxide (F:SnO2/ FTO) coated glass sheets (TEC 15, 15 0/square,
Pilkington USA) were etched with zinc powder and HCl (2 M) to give the required electrode
pattern. The sheets were subsequently cleaned with soap (2% Hellemanex in water), distilled
water, acetone, ethanol and finally treated under oxygen plasma for 5 minutes to remove any
organic residues.
3. Deposition of the compact TiO2 layer:
        The patterned FTO sheets were then coated with a compact layer of TiO 2 (100 nm) by
aerosol spray pyrolysis deposition of a titanium diisopropoxide bis(acetylacetonate) ethanol
solution (1:10 titanium diisopropoxide bis(acetylacetonate) to ethanol volume ratio) at 250 C
using air as the carrier gas (see Kavan, L. and Gratzel, M., Highly efficient semiconducting
TiO 2 photoelectrodes prepared by aerosol pyrolysis, Electrochim. Acta 40, 643 (1995);
Snaith, H. J. and Gratzel, M., The Role of a "Schottky Barrier" at an Electron-Collection
Electrode in Solid-State Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Adv. Mater. 18, 1910 (2006)).
4. Deposition of the mesoporous TiO2 film:
        A standard TiO 2 nanoparticle paste, such as commercially available dyesol 18NR-T,
was doctor-blade coated, screen printed or spin-coated onto the compact TiO 2 to give a dry
film thickness between 200 nm and 2 pm, governed by the height of the doctor blade. These
sheets were then slowly heated to 500'C (ramped over 30 minutes) and baked at this

      WO 2013/171517                             56                          PCT/GB2013/051306
temperature for 30 minutes under an oxygen flow. After cooling, the sheets were cut into
slides of the required size and stored in the dark until further use.
        Prior to fabrication of each set of devices, the nanoporous films were soaked in a
0.015 M aqueous solution of TiCl 4 for 1 hours at 70'C. This procedure was applied to grow
a thin shell of TiO 2 upon the mesoporous TiO 2 . Following the TiCl 4 treatment the films were
rinsed with deionised water, dried in air, and baked once more at 500'C for 45 minutes under
air flow. Once cooled to 70*C they were placed in a dye solution overnight.
5. Deposition of the perovskite precursor solution and formation of the mesoporous
perovskite semiconducting electrode:
        A small volume, between 20 to 100 d of the solution of the perovskite precursor
solution in DMF (methylammonium iodide lead (II) chloride (CH 3NH3PbCl2 I)) at a volume
concentration of between 5 to 40vol% was dispensed onto each preprepared mesoporous
electrode film and left for 20 s before spin-coating at 1500 rpm for 30 s in air. The coated
films were then placed on a hot plate set at 100 degrees Celsius and left for 45 minutes at this
temperature in air, prior to cooling. During the drying procedure at 100 degrees, the coated
electrode changed colour from light yellow to dark brown, indicating the formation of the
desired perovskite film with the semiconducting properties.
6. Hole-transporter deposition and device assembly:
        The hole transporting material used was spiro-OMeTAD (Lumtec, Taiwan), which
was dissolved in chlorobenzene at a typical concentration of 180 mg/ml. After fully
dissolving the spiro-OMeTAD at 100 0 C for 30 minutes the solution was cooled and tertbutyl
pyridine (tBP) was added directly to the solution with a volume to mass ratio of 1:26 pl/mg
tBP:spiro-MeOTAD. Lithium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)amine salt (Li-TFSI) ionic dopant
was pre-dissolved in acetonitrile at 170 mg/ml, then added to the hole-transporter solution at
1:12 pl/mg of Li-TFSI solution:spiro-MeOTAD. A small quantity (20 to 70 pl) of the spiro
OMeTAD solution was dispensed onto each perovskite coated mesoporous film and left for
20 s before spin-coating at 1500 rpm for 30 s in air. The films were then placed in a thermal

      WO 2013/171517                             57                             PCT/GB2013/051306
evaporator where 200 nm thick silver electrodes were deposited through a shadow mask
under high vacuum (10-6 mBar).
7. Fabrication of devices comprising FOPbI3 zBr 3 (1-Z)
         Devices were fabricated on fluorine-doped tin oxide coated glass substrates. These
were cleaned sequentially in hallmanex, acetone, propan-2-ol and oxygen plasma. A compact
layer of TiO 2 was deposited by spin-coating a mildly acidic solution of titanium isopropoxide
in ethanol. This was dried at 150 C for 10 minutes. The TiO 2 mesoporous layer was
deposited by spin-coating at 2000rpm a 1:7 dilution by weight of Dyesol 18NR-T paste in
ethanol, forming a layer of- 150nm. The layers were then sintered in air at 500 C for 30
minutes. Upon cooling, perovskite precursors were spin-coated at 2000rpm in a nitrogen
filled glovebox, followed by annealing at 170'C for 25minutes in the nitrogen atmosphere.
The hole-transport layer was deposited by spin-coating an 8 wt. % 2,2',7,7'-tetrakis-(NN-di
pmethoxyphenylamine)9,9'-spirobifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD) in chlorobenzene solution with
added tert-butylpyridine (tBP) and lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide (Li-TFSI).
Devices were completed by evaporation of 60nm Au contacts.
Experimental Results
         In Figure 1 a schematic illustration of a cross section of a solid-state perovskite
sensitized solar cell is shown. Light is incident from the bottom side. The device comprises a
flat film of fluorene doped tin oxide (FTO) coated upon a glass substrate. The FTO is the
anode in the presented configuration. On top of the FTO a thin (-50nm thick) layer of
compact TiO 2 functions as a hole-blocking and electron collection interlayer, which ensures
selective collection of electrons at this anode. Upon the compact TiO 2, a mesoporous film of
TiO 2 is coated, serves to function as a high surface area n-type anode. This mesoporous TiO 2
is coated with the perovskite material which functions as the sensitizer. The role of the
sensitizer is to absorb sun light and transfer photoexcited electrons into the TiO 2 and transfer
holes into the hole-transporter. The pores in the perovskite sensitized mesoporous TiO 2 film
are predominantly filled with a hole-transporter. The role of the hole-transporter is to accept
the photo-generated holes from the valance band of the perovskite sensitizer and transport
these holes out of the device to the external circuit. The device is capped with a metal

     WO 2013/171517                              58                             PCT/GB2013/051306
electrode to complete the solar cell. Further illustrations of the structure of the solar cells and
the composition of the components are given in Figure 3 and Figure 4.
         In Figure 2 the UV-Vis absorption spectra are shown for the single halide perovskites.
In Figure 2a the lead bromide perovskite (CH 3NH 3PbBr 3). Is show, which appears yellow to
the eye. In Figure 2b the UV-Vis-NIR lead Iodide perovskite (CH 3NH 3PbI3) is show which
appears dark brown to the eye. The lead iodide perovskite has a very good absorption
spectrum with respect to potential use in a solar cell. However, due to the material instability
it does not work well when employed as a sensitizer in a solid-state perovskite sensitized
solar cell.
        In Figure 5, the UV-Vis-NIR absorption spectra for mixed halide perovskites are
shown. The lead iodide chloride perovskite (CH 3NH3 PbCl2 I ) appears dark brown to the eye
and is shown with the dark line, and the lead bromide chloride perovskite (CH 3NH3PbCl 2Br)
appears red to the eye and is shown with the light line. We term the CH 3NH 3PbCl2I
perovskite, K330 and CH 3NH 3PbCl 2Br, K33 1. The lead iodide chloride perovskite is
particularly promising since it absorbs very strongly over the entire visible to near infrared
region of the solar spectrum.
        In order to first test the photovoltaic of the perovskite absorbers, flat layer solar cells
were constructed. In figure 6, the current voltage curve for a flat layer K330 solar cells is
show. The photocurrent of 3.5 mAcm -2 is reasonably high for a flat layer sensitized solar cell.
        A current voltage curve measured under AM 1.5 simulated sun light of 1OOmWcm
irradiance for a complete solar cell as described and illustrated in Figure 1 employing spiro
OMeTAD as the hole-transporter and CH 3NH 3PbCl2I as the perovskite absorber, is shown in
Figure 7. The photocurrent is over 20 mAcm- and the overall power conversion efficiency is
11.5%. This level of performance is exceptionally high for a solid-state sensitized solar cell
and represents an absolute breakthrough in performance for this technology. In comparison,
the highest reported efficiency for solid-state dye-sensitized solar cells is just over 7%, and
the highest verified efficiency for liquid electrolyte dye-sensitized solar cells is 11.4%.
        In Figure 8, a current voltage curve measured under AM1.5 simulated sun light of
1OOmWcm2 irradiance for a complete solar cell as described and illustrated in Figure 1
employing P3HT as the hole-transporter and CH 3NH 3PbCl2I as the perovskite absorber is

      WO 2013/171517                             59                            PCT/GB2013/051306
 shown. This device also performs well, although not as well as the device employing spiro
 OMeTAD as the hole-transporter.
         In figure 9 the external quantum efficiency (EQE) action spectrum is show for a K330
 sensitized solar cell employing spiro-OMeTAD as the hole-transporter. The exceptionally
high EQE of 80% at peak and broadly functioning over the entire absorbing range justifies
the high photocurrent measured under simulated sun light.
         In figure 10 the external quantum efficiency action spectrum is show for a K330
 sensitized solar cell employing semiconducting polymers, P3HT and PCPDTBT as the hole
transporters. The EQE spectra has dips where the polymers absorb light, with the P3HT
absorption maximum being between 500 to 600nm, and the PCPDTBT absorption maximum
being at 700nm. These dips in the EQE spectrum, illustrate that the polymer is in fact
absorbing light which would have otherwise been absorbed in the perovskite sensitizer. Once
the light is absorbed in the polymer, it does not appear to generate charge very effectively.
This "light filtering effect" justifies why the photocurrent is lower for the preovskite senitized
solar cell employing the polymer hole-conductor P3HT, than the small molecular wide band
gap hole-conductor spiro-OMeTAD.
         Figure 11 shows the UV-Vis-NIR absorption spectra for the complete photoactive of a
solar cell comprised of K330 and spiro-OMeTAD. The films are sealed in nitrogen. There is
negligible change in the absorption spectra over 1000hrs constant illumination from AM1.5
sun light at 1O0mWcm- irradiance. This indicates that the perovskite is stable in the
photoactive layer of the solar cell.
         Figure 12 shows the optical density at 500nm as a function of time under Am1.5
illumination, extracted from the data in figure 11.
         The X-ray diffraction pattern, shown in Figure 13 was extracted at room temperature
from CH 3NH 3PbCl2I thin film coated onto glass slide by using X'pert Pro X-ray
Diffractometer.
         Figure 13 shows the typical X-ray diffraction pattern of the ( Methylammonium
Dichloromonoiodo plumbate(II); CH 3NH3PbCl2I film on glass substrate. X-ray diffraction
pattern confirms the ABX 3 type of cubic (a=b=c=90) perovskite structure (Pm3m).
CH 3NH 3 PbCl2I gave diffraction peaks at 14.20, 28.58, and 43.27', assigned as the (100),
(200), and (300) planes, respectively of a cubic perovskite structure with lattice parameter a)

       WO 2013/171517                            60                           PCT/GB2013/051306
 8.835 A, b) 8.835 and c) 11.24A. A sharp diffraction peaks at (h 0 0; where h =1-3) suggest
 that the films fabricated on glass substrate were predominantly single phase and were highly
 oriented with the a-axis self-assembly [ "OrganometalHalide Perovskites as Visible-Light
Sensitizersfor Photovoltaic Cells" Akihiro Kojima, Kenjiro Teshima, Yasuo Shirai and
 Tsutomu Miyasaka, J Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 6050].
         CH 3NH3 cation cannot be assigned in the X ray given its dynamic orientation,
 CH 3NH 3* is incompatible with the molecular symmetry, and hence the cation is still
disordered in this phase at room temperature. And thus, the effective contribution of the C
and N atoms to the total diffracted intensity is very small relative to the contributions from Pb
and X (Cl and I) [ "Alkylammonium lead halides. Part2. CHNHPbX (X = C], Br, I)
perovskites: cuboctahedralhalide cages with isotropic cation reorientation", Osvaldkn OP
and Rodericke Wasylishenm et al. Can. J Chem. 1990, 68, 412.].
         The peak positions for the synthesised mixed CH3NH 3PbCl 2I at (h,0,0) were observed
to be shifted towards lower 20 and were positioned in between the pure methylammonium
trihalogen plumbate i.e. CH 3NH 3PbI3 and CH 3NH 3PbCl 3 ["Dynamic disorder in
methylammoniumtrihalogenoplumbates(H)observed by millimeter-wave spectroscopy", A.
Poglitsch and D. Weber, J Chem. Phys. 1987, 87, 6373.] respectively, and also the increased
lattice parameter (a = 8.835   A )of the CH 3NH 3PbCl2I film as compared to pure "Cl" based
perovskite i.e. CH 3NH 3PbCl3 (a = 5.67A) with the addition of "I"content gives an evidence
of the formation of mixed halide perovskite ["Opticalproperties of CH3NH3PbX3 (X =
halogen) and their mixed-halide crystals ", N. Kitazawa, Y Watanabe and YNakamura, J
Mat Sci. 2002, 37, 3585.].
         The diffraction pattern of the product contained a few unidentified peaks, they can
attributed to the various factors including the presence of some impurity (e.g. Pb(OH)Cl,
CH 3NH 3X ; X = Cl and/or I, or a related compounds that may generate during the synthesis
even if slightly excess of reactants are used, and also to the hygroscopic nature of the
compound which can resultantly form unwanted impurity [ "Alkylammonium lead halides.
Part2. CHNHPbX (X = C1, Br, I) perovskites: cuboctahedralhalide cages with isotropic
cation reorientation", Osvaldkn OP and Rodericke Wasylishenm et al. Can. J Chem. 1990,
68, 412.] Additionally, "I"ion present in the lattice may split some of the peaks at room
temperature given the fact that the pure "I"based perovskite (CH 3NH 3PbI3) forms tetragonal
structure [ "Alkylammonium lead halides. Part1. Isolated ~ b 16 i-on-s in (CH3NH3)4Pb]6-

      WO 2013/171517                               61                          PCT/GB2013/051306
 2H20" Beverlyr Vincent K, Robertsont, Stanlecya merona, NDosvaldk, Can. J Chem. 1987,
 65, 1042.; "OrganometalHalide Perovskites as Visible-Light Sensitizersfor Photovoltaic
 Cells" Akihiro Kojima, Kenjiro Teshima, Yasuo Shirai and Tsutomu Miyasaka, J Am. Chem.
 Soc. 2009, 131, 6050].
         In Figure 14, a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) cross-sectional image of a
 mesoporous TiO 2 film coated upon an FTO electrode is shown. The perovskite precursor
 solution is coated within the porous TiO 2 film via spin-coating. To elaborate upon this
 coating process, there has been extensive previous work investigating how solution-cast
 materials infiltrate into mesoporous oxides (H. J. Snaith et al., Nanotechnology 19, 424003
 424015(2008); T. Leijtens et al., ACS Nano 6, 1455-1462 (2012); J. Melas-Kyriazi et al.,
Adv. Energy. Mater. 1, 407 - 414 (2011); I-K. Ding et al., Adv. Funct. Mater. 19, 2431-2436
 (2009); A. Abrusci et al., Energy Environ. Sci. 4, 3051-3058 (2011)). If the concentration of
the solution is low enough, and the solubility of the cast material high enough, the material
will completely penetrate the pores as the solvent evaporates. The usual result is that the
material forms a "wetting" layer upon the internal surface of the mesoporous film, and
uniformly, but not completely, fills the pores throughout the thickness of the electrode. The
degree of "pore-filling" is controlled by varying the solution concentration. If the
concentration of the casting solution is high, a "capping layer" will be formed on top of the
mesoporous oxide in addition to a high degree of pore-filling. In Figure 15, a cross-sectional
SEM image of a mesoporous TiO 2 film coated with the perovskite absorber is shown. There
is no appearance of a capping layer, which implies that the perovskite is predominantly
within the mesoporous film. To complete the photoactive layer, the hole-transporter, spiro
OMeTAD, is spin-coated on top of the perovskite coated electrode. In Figure 16 a cross
sectional SEM image of the complete photoactive film is shown, where it is now apparent
that the spiro-OMeTAD has formed a capping layer.
        Figures 17 to 19 relate to perovskites comprising a formamidinium cation and devices
comprising FOPbI 3 yBr 3 (ly). In general, it is considered to be advantageous to retain a 3D
crystal structure in the perovskite, as opposed to creating layered perovskites which will
inevitably have larger exciton binding energies (Journal of Luminescence 60&61 (1994) 269
274). It is also advantageous to be able to tune the band gap of the perovskite. The band gap
can be changed by either changing the metal cations or halides, which directly influence both
the electronic orbitals and the crystal structure. Alternatively, by changing the organic cation
(for example from a methylammonium cation to a formamidinium cation), the crystal

     WO 2013/171517                            62                            PCT/GB2013/051306
structure can be altered. However, in order to fit within the perovskite crystal, the following
geometric condition must be met:    (RA  + Rx) = tVZ(RB + Rx         wherein RA,B,&X are the
ionic radii of ABX ions. The inventor have unexpectedly found that formamidinium cation
(FO) does indeed form the perovskite structure in a the cubic structure in a FOPbBr 3 or
FOPbI3 perovskite, and mixed halide perovskites thereof.

     WO 2013/171517                            63                             PCT/GB2013/051306
                                            CLAIMS
 1.     An optoelectronic device comprising a mixed-anion perovskite, wherein the mixed
anion perovskite comprises two or more different anions selected from halide anions and
chalcogenide anions.
2.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 1 wherein the mixed-anion perovskite
comprises a first cation, a second cation, and said two or more different anions.
3.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 2 wherein the second cation is a metal
cation.
4.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 3 wherein the metal cation is a divalent
metal cation.
5.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the metal cation is
selected from Sn 2+ and Pb2 +
6.      An optoelectronic device according to any of claims 2 to 5 wherein the first cation is
an organic cation.
7.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 6 wherein the organic cation has the
formula (R1R2 R3R4N)*, wherein:
        R1 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
        R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl.
8.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the organic cation
has the formula (R 5 NH 3 )*, wherein:
        R5 is hydrogen, or unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl.

     WO 2013/171517                             64                            PCT/GB2013/051306
9.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 6 wherein the organic cation has the
formula (R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein:
        R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
        R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
        R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl.
10.     An optoelectronic device according to claim 6 or claim 9 wherein the organic cation
has the formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)+.
11.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
perovskite is a mixed-halide perovskite, wherein said two or more different anions are two or
more different halide anions.
12.      An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
perovskite is a perovskite compound of the formula (I):
                                        [A][B][X] 3            (I)
wherein:
        [A] is at least one organic cation;
        [B] is at least one metal cation; and
        [X] is said two or more different anions.
13.     An optoelectronic device according to any of claims 1 to 12 wherein the perovskite is
a perovskite compound of the formula (IA):
                                        AB[X] 3                        (IA)
wherein:

     WO 2013/171517                             65                            PCT/GB2013/051306
        A is an organic cation;
        B is a metal cation; and
         [X] is said two or more different anions.
 14.    An optoelectronic device according to claim 12 or claim 13 wherein [X] is two or
three different halide anions.
 15.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
perovskite is a perovskite compound of formula (II):
                                        ABX3..yX'y            (II)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation;
        B is a metal cation;
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
        y is from 0.05 to 2.95.
16.     An optoelectronic device according to any one claims 1 to 6 and 9 to 14 wherein the
perovskite is a perovskite compound of formula (Ila):
                                       ABX 3zX' 3(.z)        (Ila)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation of the formula (R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein: R5 , R6 , R7 and
R8 are independently selected from hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, and
unsubstituted or substituted aryl;
        B is a metal cation;
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and

      WO 2013/171517                               66                             PCT/GB2013/051306
        z is greater than 0 and less than 1.
 17.    An optoelectronic device according to claim 16 wherein z is from 0.05 to 0.95.
 18.    An optoelectronic device according to claim 15 wherein the organic cation has the
formula (R1R2 R3R4N)*, wherein: RI, R2 , R3 and R 4 are independently selected from
hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, and unsubstituted or substituted aryl; or
 (R5 NH3 )*, wherein R5 is hydrogen, or unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl.
 19.    An optoelectronic device according to claim 16 or claim 17 wherein the organic
cation has the formula: (H2N=CH-NH 2) .
20.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 15 to 19 wherein the metal
cation is selected from Sn 2 + and Pb2 +
21.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims I to 8, 11 to 15 and 18,
wherein the perovskite is selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2, CH 3NH 3PbBrCl 2 , CH 3NH3PbIBr 2,
CH3NH 3PbICl 2, CH 3NH 3PbClBr 2 , CH 3NH3 PbI2Cl, CH 3NH 3SnBrI 2, CH 3NH 3 SnBrCl 2,
CH 3NH 3 SnF2Br, CH 3NH 3SnIBr 2 , CH 3NH3 SnICl 2 , CH 3NH 3SnF 2I, CH 3NH3 SnClBr 2 ,
CH 3NH 3 SnI2C1 and CH 3NH 3SnF 2Cl.
22.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, 9 to 14, 16 and 17,
wherein the perovskite has the formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)PbI 3 Br 3 -z),wherein z is as defined
in claim 16 or claim 17.
23.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
optoelectronic device is an optoelectronic device selected from: a photovoltaic device; a
photodiode; a phototransistor; a photomultiplier; a photo resistor; a photo detector; a light
sensitive detector; solid-state triode; a battery electrode; a light-emitting device; a light
emitting diode; a transistor; a solar cell; a laser; and a diode injection laser.
24.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
optoelectronic device is a photovoltaic device.
25.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
optoelectronic device is a solar cell.
26.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 23, wherein said
optoelectronic device is a light-emitting diode.

     WO 2013/171517                            67                          PCT/GB2013/051306
27.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:
        a first electrode;
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) said perovskite.
28.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of the preceding claims which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:
        a first electrode;
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) a thin film comprising said perovskite.
29.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 27 which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:
       a first electrode;
       a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
       (a) a layer of a semiconductor; and
       (b) said perovskite.
30.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 27 which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:
       a first electrode;
       a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
       (a) an n-type layer; and
       (b) said perovskite.
31.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 27 which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:

     WO 2013/171517                            68                          PCT/GB2013/051306
        a first electrode;
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) a p-type layer; and
        (b) said perovskite.
32.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 26 which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:
        a first electrode;
       a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) an n-type layer;
       (b) said perovskite; and
       (c) a p-type layer.
33.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 27, which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:
       a first electrode;
       a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
       (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor; and
       (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite.
34.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims I to 27 and 33, which is an
optoelectronic device comprising:
       a first electrode;
       a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
       (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor;
       (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite; and
       (c) a charge transporting material.

     WO 2013/171517                              69                           PCT/GB2013/051306
 35.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 1 to 27, 33 and 34, which is
an optoelectronic device comprising:
         a first electrode;
         a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
         (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor, which is a porous layer of a p-type
semiconductor;
         (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite; and
         (c) a charge transporting material, which is an electron transporting material.
36.      An optoelectronic device according to one of claims 33 to 35 wherein the porous layer
of a p-type semiconductor comprises an oxide of nickel, vanadium, copper or molybdenum.
37.      An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 33 to 36, wherein the porous
layer of a p-type semiconductor is in contact with a compact layer of a p-type semiconductor.
38.      An optoelectronic device according to claim 37, wherein the compact layer of a p
type semiconductor comprises an oxide of nickel, vanadium or copper.
39.     An optoelectronic device according to claim 37, wherein the compact layer of a
semiconductor comprises an oxide of molybdenum or tungsten.
40.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 33 to 38 wherein the electron
transporting material comprise a fullerene or perylene, or derivatives thereof, or
P(NDI2OD-T2).
41.     An optoelectronic device according to any one claims 1 to 28, 33 and 34, which is a
photovoltaic device comprising:
        a first electrode;
        a second electrode; and, disposed between the first and second electrodes:
        (a) a porous layer of a semiconductor, which is a porous layer of an n-type
semiconductor;
        (b) a sensitizer material comprising said perovskite; and

      WO 2013/171517                             70                            PCT/GB2013/051306
         (c) a charge transporting material, which is a hole transporting material.
 42.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 33, 34, and 41, wherein the
 porous layer of an n-type semiconductor comprises: an oxide of titanium, tin, zinc, niobium,
 tantalum, tungsten, indium, gallium, neodinium, palladium or cadmium.
 43.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 33, 34, 41 and 42, wherein
 the porous layer of a semiconductor comprises TiO 2 .
 44.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 33, 34 and 41 to 43, wherein
the porous layer of a semiconductor is in contact with a compact layer of an n-type
 semiconductor.
45.     An optoelectronic device according to claim 44, wherein the compact layer of an n
type semiconductor comprises TiO 2 .
46.     An optoelectronic device according to any of claims 34 and 41 to 45 wherein the hole
transporting material is a solid state hole transporting material or a liquid electrolyte.
47.     An optoelectronic device according to any of claims 34 and 41 to 46 wherein the hole
transporting material is a polymeric or molecular hole transporter.
48.     An optoelectronic device according to any of claims 34 and 41 to 47 wherein the hole
transporting material is selected from spiro-OMeTAD, P3HT, PCPDTBT and PVK.
49.     An optoelectronic device according to any of claims 34 and 41 to 46 wherein the hole
transporting material is a molecular hole transporter, or a polymer or copolymers.
50.     An optoelectronic device according to any of claims 34 and 41 to 46 wherein the hole
transporting material is an inorganic hole transporter, optionally wherein the inorganic hole
transporter is Cul, CuBr, CuSCN, Cu 2 O, CuO or CIS.
51.     An optoelectronic device according to any one of claim 33 to 50, wherein the porous
layer of a semiconductor has a thickness of from 100 nm to 2 gim.
52.     A mixed-halide perovskite of the formula (I)
                                        [A][B][X] 3            (I)
wherein:

      WO 2013/171517                                                            PCT/GB2013/051306
          [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (RiR 2R3R4N)*, wherein:
                  (i) R1 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl;
                 (ii) R2 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C 1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl;
                 (iii) R3 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl; and
                 (iv) R4 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted
 or substituted aryl;
         [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
         [X] is two or more different halide anions;
         provided that:
         (i) when [A] is a single organic cation which is (CH 3NH 3)* and [B] is a single metal
cation which is Sn2+,the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise: (a) a chloride ion and a
bromide ion, or (b) a bromide ion and an iodide ion; and
         (ii) when [A] is a single organic cation which is (CH 3NH3)* and [B] is a single metal
cation which is Pb2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise a chloride ion and a
bromide ion.
53.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 52 wherein: when [B] is a single metal
cation which is Pb2 +, one of said two or more different halide anions is iodide or fluoride; and
when [B] is a single metal cation which is Sn2+, one of said two or more different halide
anions is fluoride.
54.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 52 wherein one of said two or more
different halide anions is iodide or fluoride.
55.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 52 wherein one of said two or more
different halide anions is iodide and another of said two or more different halide anions is
fluoride or chloride.

      WO 2013/171517                            72                            PCT/GB2013/051306
 56.    A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 52 wherein one of said two or more
different halide anions is fluoride.
 57.    A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 52 wherein either:
        (a) one of said two or more different anions is fluoride and another of said said two or
more different anions is chloride, bromide or iodide; or
        (b) one of said two or more different anions is iodide and another of said two or more
different anions is fluoride or chloride.
58.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 52 to 57 wherein [X] is two
different halide anions X and X'.
59.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 52 to 58 wherein said
divalent metal cation is Sn 2 +
60.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 52 to 58 wherein said
divalent metal cation is Pb2 +
61.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 52 to 60 wherein [A] is at
least one organic cation of the formula (R 5 NH3 )*, wherein:
        R 5 is hydrogen, or unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C 2o alkyl.
62.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 61, wherein R 5 is methyl.
63.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 52 to 62 wherein the
perovskite is a perovskite compound of formula (II):
                                        ABX3.yX'y               (II)
wherein:
        A is an organic cation;
        B is a divalent metal cation;
        X is a first halide anion;
        X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and

       WO 2013/171517                           73                            PCT/GB2013/051306
         y is from 0.05 to 2.95.
         provided that:
         (i) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH 3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Sn2+,the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise: (a) a chloride ion and a
bromide ion, or (b) a bromide ion and an iodide ion; and
         (ii) when A is an organic cation which is (CH 3NH 3)* and B is a divalent metal cation
which is Pb2+, the mixed-halide perovskite does not comprise a chloride ion and a bromide
ion.
64.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 58 or claim 63 wherein X is iodide and
X' is fluoride or chloride, or X is fluoride and X' is chloride, bromide or iodide.
65.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 58 or claim 63 wherein X or X' is
iodide.
66.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 64 or claim 65 wherein B is other than
Sn 2 +
67.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 65 wherein X is iodide and X' is
fluoride or chloride.
68.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 56 or claim 60 wherein X or X' is
fluoride.
69.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to any of claims 52 to 63 which comprises Sn2+
70.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to any of claims 52 to 63 which comprises Pb2 +
71.     A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 52 to 63, wherein the
mixed-anion perovskite is selected from CH 3NH 3PbBrI2, CH 3NH 3PbIBr 2, CH 3NH 3PbICl 2,
CH 3NH3PbI2 Cl, CH 3NH 3 SnF 2Br, CH 3NH 3SnICl 2 , CH 3NH 3 SnF2I, CH 3NH 3SnI 2 Cl and
CH 3NH3 SnF2Cl.
72.     A mixed-halide perovskite of the formula (I)
                                        [A][B][X] 3            (I)
wherein:

      WO 2013/171517                                                             PCT/GB2013/051306
          [A] is at least one organic cation of the formula (R5R6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein:
         (i) R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         (ii) R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         (iii) R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1-C20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl; and
         (iv)     R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl:
         [B] is at least one divalent metal cation; and
         [X] is two or more different halide anions.
73.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 72 wherein the organic cation has the
formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)+.
74.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 72 or claim 73 wherein the metal cation
is selected from Sn2+ and Pb2 .
75.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 72 or claim 73 wherein the metal cation
is Pb2 +
76.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 72 to 75 wherein the
perovskite is a perovskite compound of formula (Ila):
                                         ABX 3 zX' 3 (1-z)      (Ila)
wherein:
         A is an organic cation of the formula (R5R 6N=CH-NR 7R8 )*, wherein:
         (i) R5 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;
         (ii) R6 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted Ci-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
substituted aryl;

     WO 2013/171517                              75                             PCT/GB2013/051306
         (iii) R7 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted CI-C 20 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
 substituted aryl; and
         (iv) R8 is hydrogen, unsubstituted or substituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl, or unsubstituted or
 substituted aryl;
         B is an metal cation selected from Sn2+ and Pb;2+
         X is a first halide anion;
         X' is a second halide anion which is different from the first halide anion; and
         z is greater than 0 and less than 1.
77.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 76 wherein z is from 0.05 to 0.95.
78.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to claim 76 or claim 77 wherein the organic
cation has the formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)f.
79.      A mixed-halide perovskite according to any one of claims 76 to 78 wherein the
perovskite has the formula (H2N=CH-NH 2)PbI 3zBr 3( ..z)
80.      Use of a mixed-anion perovskite as a sensitizer in an optoelectronic device, wherein
the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or more different anions selected from halide
anions and chalcogenide anions.
81.     Use according to claim 80 wherein the mixed-anion perovskite is as further defined in
any one of claims 2 to 80.
82.     Use according to claim 80 or claim 81 wherein the optoelectronic device is a
photovoltaic device.
83.     Use according to claim 80 or claim 81 wherein the optoelectronic device is a light
emitting diode.
84.     A photosensitizing material for an optoelectronic device comprising a mixed-anion
perovskite wherein the mixed-anion perovskite comprises two or more different anions
selected from halide anions and chalcogenide anions.
85.     A photosensitizing material according to claim 84 wherein the mixed-anion
perovskite is as further defined in any one of claims 2 to 80.

    WO 2013/171517                           76                          PCT/GB2013/051306
86.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims I to 51, which further
comprises encapsulated metal nanoparticles.
87.    An optoelectronic device according to any one of claims 27 to 51, which further
comprises encapsulated metal nanoparticles disposed between the first and second electrodes.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
