Patient Data Triggered Pooling-System For Risk Sharing of Chronic
Critical Illness Risks of Cohorts of Elderly Persons And
Corresponding Method Thereof
Abstract
Proposed are a parametric, event-driven crit- ical illness insurance system based on a
resource-pooling system (1) and method for risk sharing of critical illness risks associated
with elderly persons by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for a variable
number of risk exposure components (21, 22, 23) by means of the resource- pooling system
(1). The resource-pooling system (1) corn- prises an assembly module (5) to process risk
related corn- ponent data (211, 221, 23 1) and to provide the likelihood (212, 222, 232)
of said risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components
(21, 22, 23,...) based on the risk-related component data (211, 221, 231). The risk
exposure components (21, 22, 23) are connected to the resource-pooling system (1) for the
pooling of their risks and resources, and wherein the resource-pooling system (1) comprises
an multiple event-driven core-engine (3) with critical illness triggers (31, 32, 33)
triggering in a patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) to provide risk protection for a
specific risk exposure component (21, 22, 23) for the occurrence of acute and/or chronic
critical illnesses, as e.g. dementia and/or heart attack. The operation of the resource pooling
system (1) is further supported by a parametric mul- ti-trigger stage risk-cover.

                                                    1
Patient Data Triggered Pooling-System For Risk Sharing of Chronic
Critical Illness Risks of Cohorts of Elderly Persons And
Corresponding Method Thereof
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2013403068, the content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to critical illness insurance systems for providing risk sharing of
critical illness risks associated with elderly persons by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk
protection for the risk exposure components by means of resource pooling system. In particular,
the invention relates to automated event-driven systems triggering on the patient dataflow
pathway.
Background of the Invention
These days, there is significant risk exposure related to many aspects in life and non-life sectors.
Risk exposed units as any kinds of objects, individuals, corporate bodies and/or legal entities,
necessarily are confronted with many forms of active and passive risk management to hedge and
protect against the risk of certain losses and events. In the prior art, one way to address such risk
of loss is based on transferring and pooling the risk of loss from a plurality of risk exposed
entities to a dedicated pooling entity. In essence, this can be executed by effectively allocating
the risk of loss to this pooling unit or entity by pooling resources of associated units, which are
exposed to a certain risk. In case, that one of the units is hit by an event occurring related to a
transferred risk, the pooling entity directly intercepts the loss or damage caused by the event by
transferring resources from the pooled resources to the affected unit. Pooling of resources can be
achieved by exchanging predefined amounts of resources with the resource-pooling system; e.g.
payments or premiums to be paid, for the transfer of the risk. This means that predefined
amounts of resources are exchanged for the other unit assuming the risk of loss.
For living individuals, a special kind of risk is based on the risk of loss of life and related
possible losses; i.e., losses that occur as a consequence of the death of that individual. Such risks
are traditionally handled by so-called life insurance systems. To administer a loss for benefits
provided by a life insurance policy, a substantial amount of information must be collected and
managed by the pooling entity in order to allow risk-

                                                   2
   transfer. Appropriate documentation must be identified, captured and analyzed, such
   as death certificates or medical provider verification of condition or service in the cases
   of health/supplementary health. One important problem arises by the fact that life
   insurance methods are triggered by the death of the unit, which risk is transferred.
 5 However, often problems arise for an individual before then, in that financial resources
   were threatened by losses occurring prior to death as a consequence of the events
   leading to death. This is mostly the case when the individual suffers from potentially
   terminal disease, like malignant cancer, which will inevitably lead to the death of the
   individual. Typically, the patient is confronted with increasing costs for medical
10 treatment or other related costs as travel expenses or additional heating costs, but also
   by the decreasing ability to earn the money needed to fulfill their monthly financial
   needs. This may lead to the necessity of having to make many sacrifices; e.g. not be
   able to provide sufficient financial support for care, selling their house and filling for
   bankruptcy. All these financial concerns contrariwise impacted on their health.
15 Recovery isdelayed, stress additionally aggravates poor health, and even sometimes
   ends in suicide.
   As a solution, resource-pooling systems were developed that cover such "critical
   illnesses", where the resource-pooling unit operated by the insurer provides a lump sum
   cash payment if the risk-exposed unit, which is, seen from the perspective of the insurer
20 the policyholder, is diagnosed with one of the critical illnesses listed in a defined table of
   transferred risk. The operation of the resource-pooling system may also be structured to
   pay out regular income, and the payouts may also benefit the policyholder undergoing
   a surgical procedure, for example, having a heart bypass operation. Typically, such
   systems require the risk-exposed unit to survive a minimum number of days (the so
25 called survival period) from when the illness was first diagnosed. The survival period can
   vary; however, 14 days is the most commonly used survival period used. In the
   Australian market, survival periods are set between 8 - 14 days. However, systems as
   e.g. indemnity based on accelerated payment and stand-alone products, are also
   known. The terms, as defined for the risk transfer, typically contain specific predefined
30 triggers or rules to be applied that provide the basis for the determination of when a
   diagnosis of a critical illness is considered valid. Terms for survival periods may also
   define parameters providing that the diagnosis need be made by a physician who
   specializes in the treatment of that illness or condition or name specific tests, e.g. ECG
   changes in case of a myocardial infarctions, that confirm the diagnosis. In many

                                                      3
   markets, the trigger parameters for many of the diseases and conditions have become
   standardized; thus typically resource-pooling systems would use the same definition (cf.
   stand alone products and accelerated critical illness systems). The standardization of
   the critical illness definitions serves many purposes, including better clarity of coverage
 5 for the risk-exposed units and greater comparability of terms and conditions for risk
   transfers among different resource-pooling systems. Such terms and conditions are
   often defined in the policy covering the risk transfer. For example, in the UK the
   Association of British Insurers (ABI) has issued a Statement of Best Practice, which
   includes a number of standard definitions for common critical illnesses. The prior art also
10 provides for alternative methods of critical illness risk transfer, other than the lump sum
   cash payment method. These critical illness insurance systems can directly pay health
   providers (as e.g. "tiers payant" systems) for the treatment costs involving critical and
   life-threatening illnesses that are covered by the policyholder's insurance policy,
   including fees for specialists and procedures at a select group of high-ranking hospitals
15 up to a certain amount per course of treatment as set out in the policy, but also transfer
   the payment to the customer.
   In the prior art, critical illnesses are typically covered by critical illness risk transfer; these
   are heart attack, cancer, stroke and coronary artery by-pass surgery. Examples of other
   conditions that might be covered include: Alzheimer's disease, blindness, deafness,
20 kidney failure, major organ transplant, multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS contracted by blood
   transfusion or during an operation, Parkinson's disease, paralysis of limb, terminal illness.
   One of the problems of the risk transfer system as provided by the prior art lies in the
   fact that the incidence of a condition may vary (i.e. in- or decrease) over time, and
   that diagnosis and treatment may improve over time, that the financial need to cover
25 some illnesses deemed critical a decade ago is no longer considered necessary today.
   Likewise, some of the conditions covered today may no longer need to be covered a
   decade or so from now. It is very difficult to adapt the prior art systems to such
   changing conditions. What is clear is the fact that the financial hardship at the time of
   diagnosis and afterwards increases during the course of treatment, which seldom can
30 be meet by the present systems. Furthermore, operating the systems of the prior art
   requires a high level of human resources, because these systems cannot be
   adequately automated. Therefore, a large quantity of the pooled resources are used
   by the resource-pooling system itself to administer the risk transfer, which makes the risk
   transfer expensive for the risk-exposed unit. Finally, another problem comes from the

                                                      4
   fact that, due to the medical progress, many patients no longer die but can survive for
   many years after undergoing treatment for a heart attack, stroke and cancer. Due to
   the long survival period, such individuals, who were struck already once by a critical
   illness, continue to be exposed to the risk of a second or consequential occurrence of a
 5 critical illness. In fact, the risk typically does not decrease, since the health of these
   patients is already weakened by the first incidence of a critical illness. Since critical
   illnesses are traditionally meant to lead to death, the risk involving such individuals, who
   may be affected by a second or even more critical illnesses is no longer covered by
   the resource-pooling system. Therefore, although the patient survived his first bout with
10 a critical illness, he may, at least financially, not survive the second time.
   Another limiting feature of traditional critical illness insurance systems is related to
   mandatory boundary conditions for these systems given by age restrictions for critical
   illness risk transfer. Traditional systems normally provide a child procedure associated to
   risk transfer of individuals for example in the age of 30 days to 17 years, and for example
15 a adult procedure associated to risk transfer of individuals between 18 years to 50
   years. Above the upper limit (here 50 years), the system does not allow a new individual
   to pool resources in exchange for risk transfer of critical illness. In some systems, the
   actual risk cover is longer, e.g. up to the age of 65 year. However, the individual also in
   those cases must have applied to the system before the first upper limit (here 50 years).
20 For example for UK, individuals can usually apply for cover up to the age of 65 with
   cover expiring at 75. Therefore, the know system for critical illness risk transfer necessarily
   are restricted to age conditions as boundary requirements. Older individuals cannot
   anymore be captured by these systems. Another disadvantage of the state of the art
   systems, which is especially relevant for risk transfer of critical illness risk for individuals in
25 older age, is already mentioned above. Advances in health care, especially in the
   intensive care unit (ICU) health care, have enabled more patients to survive acute
   critical illness, but created a new population who are chronically critically ill. Patients
   with chronic critical illness have persistent respiratory failure, dysfunction of other
   organs, and complications including neuropathy/myopathy, anemia, pressure ulcers,
30 and recurrent infections. For example, it could be imaginable that one class of chronic
   critical illness can be identified by the placement of tracheotomy for prolonged
   mechanical ventilation. It is a severe condition, imposing heavy burdens on patients,
   families, professional caregivers, and the health care system. Distressing symptoms are
   common, resource utilization and costs are enormous, return to the community is rare,

                                                  5
   and 6-month mortality rates exceed those for most malignancies. An other class of
   problematic chronic critical illness isrelated to dementia.
   Dementia isdefined as a serious loss of global cognitive ability in a previously
   unimpaired person, beyond what might be expected from normal aging. It may be
 5 static, the result of a unique global brain injury, or progressive, resulting in long-term
   decline due to damage or disease in the body. Although dementia isfar more
   common in the geriatric population (about 5%of those over 65 are said to be
   involved), it can occur before the age of 65, in which case it iscalled "early onset
   dementia". Dementia isnot a classical disease, but isindicated typically by set of non
10 specific symptoms. Affected cognitive areas can be memory, attention, language, and
   problem solving. Normally, symptoms must be present for at least six months to support
   a diagnosis. Cognitive dysfunction of shorter duration iscalled delirium. In advanced
   stages of dementia, subjects can be disoriented in time (not knowing the day, week, or
   even year), in place (not knowing where they are), and in person (not knowing who
15 they and/or others around them are). Dementia isclassified as either reversible or
   irreversible, depending upon the etiology of the disease. It isimportant to note that
   dementia isnot reversible in the sense that the system (human) undergoing the process
   can be returned to its original state, i.e. can be cured to a state without dementia. In
   the present state of neurological research, dementia isnot curable as such. However,
20 there can be specific conditions where the clinical symptoms mimic or closely mimic
   those suffered by those with dementia. Reversible used in connection with dementia
   means that these conditions are reversible. However, as mentioned, it isnot the case
   with dementia itself, and the condition/symptoms most probably will deteriorate over
   time. Nevertheless that there isno known cure, some treatments can potentially also
25 slow down the process. Concerning reversibility, fewer than 10% of cases of dementia
   are due to causes that may be reversed with treatment. Some of the most common
   forms of dementia are: Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, frontotemporal
   dementia, semantic dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies. A patient can exhibit
   two or more dementing processes at the same time, as none of the known types of
30 dementia protects against the others. About 10% of people with dementia have what is
   known as mixed dementia, which may be a combination of Alzheimer's disease and
   multi-infarct dementia. As for other critical illnesses, like malignant cancer, also in the
   case of dementia, especially in advanced stages of dementia, the patient isexposed
   to the same problems as above mentioned for critical illnesses. The patient will be

                                                    6
   confronted with increasing costs for medical treatment or other related costs, and
   further by the decreasing ability to earn the money needed to fulfill their financial
   needs. Cost estimations of treating the chronically critically ill in the United States
   already exceed $20 billion and are increasing. Therefore, it isa need, especially for
 5 older people, to provide the possibility for risk transfer related to chronic critical illnesses
   without an age restriction, excluding the age group, which need risk transfer most for
   chronic critical illnesses.
   There isa further problem, why traditional risk transfer systems related to critical illnesses
   fail to provide appropriate mechanism in relation to dementia as critical illness, i.e.
10 resource-pooling systems for risk transfer associated with elderly. As mentioned, the
   traditional critical illness systems are triggered by the occurrence of a critical illness.
   After the pay out of an associated lump sum, the insured isnot any more covered by
   the risk-transfer system. However, risk factors for dementia increase after critical illness
   diagnosis in elderly patient. Unfortunately, hospitalization increases the risk of a
15 subsequent diagnosis of dementia. Studies show that illness requiring hospitalization and
   treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) due to infection or severe sepsis, neurological
   dysfunction, such as delirium, or acute dialysis are all independently associated with an
   increased risk of a subsequent diagnosis of dementia (cf. C. Guerra et al., Risk factors
   for dementia after critical illness in elderly medicare beneficiaries, Critical Care 2012,
20 16:R233).[]The studies show that over the three years of follow-up of the occurrence of
   a critical illness, dementia was newly diagnosed in almost 18% of the patients who
   received intensive care and survived to hospital discharge. The results of the studies are
   significant, since even patients with previous indications of cognitive impairment for
   whom dementia could have been an escalation of a pre-existing condition were
25 excluded from the studies (cf. fig. 8, C. Guerra et al., Critical Care 2012 16:R233,
   doi:10.1 186/cc 11901). The studies clearly indicate that statistically increasing age isvery
   strongly associated with diagnosis of dementia following ICU. The risk at 75 was more
   than double that of the 66 to 69 year olds. And this rose to more than five times the risk
   for those age 85 and older. Women had a marginally higher risk than men and, as other
30 studies have shown, race was also important to risk. Length of stay in ICU was not a
   factor nor was the need for mechanical ventilation. (cf. fig. 5/6, C. Guerra et al., Critical
   Care 2012 16:R233) Three factors could be identified related to the critical illness as
   being independently associated with an increased risk of a diagnosis of dementia (cf.
   fig. 7,C. Guerra et al., Critical Care 2012 16:R233): a critical illness with the presence of

                                                     7
   an infection which increased to a higher risk with more severe infection such as severe
   sepsis, having acute neurologic dysfunction during critical illness, including anoxic brain
   damage, encephalopathy, and transient mental disorders, and finally acute renal
   failure requiring dialysis. This last risk was time-dependent and only increased the risk 6
 5 months after the patient had been discharged from hospital.
   Therefore, with good reasons, older people often worry about dementia. While some
   risks are well known, for example alcoholism or stroke, also the effects of illness are
   significant. So, it is a great need in the state of the art, to provide automated resource
   pooling systems, especially for elderly, also covering risks for chronic critical illnesses. The
10 system should be designable to be based on a single occurrence scheme following the
   diagnosis of specific condition having multiple triggers following each diagnosis. As an
   option, the system should also be able to capture for multiple occurrence of critical
   illness, including dementia followed by the occurrence of a critical illness. Traditional
   critical illness risk transfer systems are not able to capture this group of persons affected
15 by critical chronic illnesses and provide an efficient method for risk transfer, thereby
   providing mechanism to unburden public social wellness services and duties and to
   alleviate social hardship.
   It has to be mentioned that the above-mentioned correlation is exemplary for the risk
   group of elderly. Other correlated critical illnesses for elderly are well known. Compare
20 for example the correlation of the risk for a stroke after coronary artery bypass (cf. S.
   Stamou et al., Stroke After Coronary Artery Bypass, American Heart Association,
   January 18, 2001).
                  Summary of the Invention
25                It is an object of the invention to provide a system and method for risk
   sharing of acute and/or chronic critical illness risks associated with elderly persons by
   providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for the risk exposure components by
   means of the critical illness insurance system. The critical illness insurance system,
   realized as a automated resource-pooling system shall be completely automated and
30 self-adaptable/self-maintaining by its technical means and shall provide the technical

                                                    8
risk transfer basis, which can be used by service providers in the risk transfer or insurance
technology for risk transfer related to critical illness risks (CI). A further object of the invention
provides for a way to technically capture, handle and automate complex related operations of the
insurance industry related to critical illness risk transfer. Another object is to synchronize and
adjust such operations based on technical means. In contrast to the standard approach, the
resource-pooling system shall create a reproducible operation with the desired, technically
based, repetitious accuracy based on technical means, process flow and process
control/operation. It is also an object of the invention to provide a risk and resource-pooling
system able to cope with difficult chronic progress of critical illnesses and further with complex
related multiple risk events, especially associated with a cohort of elderly persons.
             According to the present invention, at least one of these objects is achieved
particularly through the features of the independent claims. In addition, further advantageous
embodiments follow from the dependent claims and the related description.
             According to the present invention, at least one of the above-mentioned objects for
risk sharing of critical illness risks associated with elderly persons is achieved, particularly, by
providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for a variable number risk exposure
components, i.e. a cohort of elderly persons, by means of the resource-pooling system, wherein
the risk exposure components are connected to the resource-pooling system by means of a
plurality of payment-receiving modules configured to receive and store payments from the risk
exposure components for the pooling of their risks and resources, and wherein the resource
pooling system comprises an event-driven core engine comprising critical illness triggers
triggering in a patient dataflow pathway to provide risk protection for a specific risk exposure
component based on received and stored payments of the risk exposure components, in that the
resource-pooling system comprises a filter-module for capturing age-related parameters of risk
exposure components and for filtering risk exposure components associated with an age-related
parameter greater than a predefined age-threshold value by means of the predefined age
threshold value, in that the resource-pooling system comprises a predefined searchable table of
acute and/or chronic critical illnesses parameters indicating the occurrence of dementia and/or
heart attack and/or cancer and/or a stroke and/or coronary artery by-pass surgery, Alzheimer's
disease and/or blindness and/or deafness and/or kidney failure and/or major organ transplant
and/or multiple sclerosis and/or

                                                   9
   HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation and/or Parkinson's
   disease and/or paralysis of limb and/or terminal illness in the patient daltaflow pathway,
   in that the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises a critical illness
   risk contribution of each pooled risk exposure components associated to risk exposure in
 5 relation to a diagnosis of an acute or chronic critical illness, wherein the acute or
   chronic critical illness is comprised in a predefined searchable table of critical illnesses
   and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk
   exposure components with one of the searchable critical illnesses, in that in case of a
   triggering of an occurrence of an acute or chronic critical illness in the patient data
10 flow pathway of a risk exposure component, a corresponding trigger-flag is set by
   means of the resource-pooling system and a parametric transfer of payments is
   assigned to this corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the acute or
   chronic critical illness is distinctly covered by the resource pooling system based on the
   respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored payment parameters
15 from risk exposure components by the parametric transfer from the resource-pooling
   system to the risk exposure component, and in that a first parametric payment is
   transferred by triggering the occurrence of the acute or chronic critical illness, a second
   parametric payment is transferred, in case of an acute critical illness, by a triggering of
   an acute treatment phase of the acute critical illness or, in case of a chronic critical
20 illness, by triggering of a first treatment phase of the chronic critical illness, and a third
   parametric payment is transferred, in the case of an acute critical illness, by a triggering
   of an aftercare phase linked to terminal prognosis data of the acute critical illness or, in
   case of a chronic critical illness, by a triggering an ongoing care or management
   phase of the chronic critical illness. The critical illness triggers can for example comprise
25 a trigger for triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating dementia
   based on measuring parameters associated with the permanent clinical loss of the
   ability to remember and/or reason and/or perceive, understand, express and give
   effect to ideas in the patient daltaflow pathway. The critical illness triggers further can
   e.g. comprise a trigger for triggering measuring parameters indicating alcohol and/or
30 drug abuse in the patient daltaflow pathway, wherein upon triggering measuring
   parameters indicating alcohol and/or drug abuse the related risk exposure component
   isrejected from pooling of the risk and resources by means of the resource-pooling
   system. As an embodiment variant, it can be provided that the first parametric
   payment, for example can technically be implemented in that it only is transferred by
35 the triggering of the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating the critical illness

                                                      10
   of malignant cancer and/or a smaller incidence for ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS)
   and/or early prostate carcinoma. Further, acute treatment phase parameters
   indicating surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or reconstructive
   surgery can be triggered on the patient data flow pathway by means of a critical illness
 5 trigger by the core engine. As an embodiment variant, it is provided that the total risk of
   the pooled risk exposure components comprises a first risk contribution of each pooled
   risk exposure components associated to risk exposure in relation to a first diagnosis of a
   critical illness, wherein the critical illness is comprised in a predefined searchable table
   of critical illnesses and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence to the first
10 diagnosis of risk exposure components with one of the searchable critical illnesses, and
   that the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises at least a second
   and/or successional risk contributions associated to risk exposure in relation to a second
   and/or successional critical illnesses, wherein the critical illnesses are comprised in the
   predefined searchable table of critical illness parameters, and wherein a critical illness
15 loss losses occurs as a consequence to the second and/or successional diagnosis of risk
   exposure components with one of the searchable critical illnesses, and that in case of a
   triggering of an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical illness in the
   patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component, a corresponding trigger-flag
   is set by means of the resource-pooling system and a parametric draw-down transfer of
20 payments is assigned to this corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with
   the first or second or successional critical illness (es) isdistinctly covered by the resource
   pooling system based on the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and
   stored payment parameters from risk exposure components by the parametric draw
   down transfer from the resource-pooling system to the risk exposure component, and
25 that a first parametric payment is transferred by triggering the occurrence of the acute
   or chronic critical illness, a second parametric payment is transferred, in case of an
   acute critical illness, by a triggering of an acute treatment phase of the acute critical
   illness or, in case of a chronic critical illness, by triggering of a first treatment phase of
   the chronic critical illness, and a third parametric payment is transferred, in the case of
30 an acute critical illness, by a triggering of an aftercare phase linked to terminal
   prognosis data of the acute critical illness or, in case of a chronic critical illness, by a
   triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic critical illness. As an
   embodiment variant, it is provided that the critical illness triggers comprise a trigger for
   triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating dementia based on
35 measuring parameters associated with the permanent clinical loss of the ability to

                                                 S1
   remember and/or reason and/or perceive, understand, express and give effect to
   ideas in the patient daltaflow pathway. The triggering measuring parameters indicating
   dementia can e.g. comprise physical parameters and/or psychological parameters
   and/or biochemical parameters and/or cognitive factors based on adrenal exhaustion
 5 factors and/or food and chemical reactions factors and/or nutritional deficiencies
   factors and/or stress factors and/or depression factors, or denial factors, indicating
   confirmed impairment of cognitive functions. Further the critical illness triggers triggering
   the first treatment phase of the chronic critical illness can e.g. comprise first treatment
   phase parameter indicating psychiatric or old-age in-patient care associated with the
10 risk exposure component comprising acute in-patient admission parameters as a result
   of deterioration in dementia status requiring for urgent treatment. Finally, the critical
   illness triggers triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic critical
   illness can e.g. comprise ongoing care or management phase parameters indicating
   permanent cognitive and/or motor impairment requiring continuous supervision of
15 another person and/or ongoing care or management phase parameters indicating
   permanent cognitive and/or motor impairment requiring constant supervision of
   another person. As an further embodiment variant, the critical illness triggers can e.g.
   comprise a trigger for triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating
   stroke based on measuring parameters associated with the possibly permanent
20 cognitive or motor impairment and/or indicating the time of an acute stroke episode in
   the patient daltaflow pathway. The critical illness triggers triggering the first treatment
   phase of the chronic critical illness can e.g. further comprise first treatment phase
   parameter indicating a measured time interval of the risk exposure component spend
   in hospital due to the triggered stroke. Further, the critical illness triggers triggering an
25 ongoing care or management phase of the chronic critical illness comprise ongoing
   care or management phase parameters indicating permanent impairments of the
   cognitive functions and/or permanent cognitive and/or motor impairment requiring
   continuous supervision of another person and/or permanent cognitive and/or motor
   impairment requiring constant supervision of another person. As an other embodiment
30 variant, it is provided that a second parametric payment is transferred due to the
   triggering of acute treatment phase parameters indicating surgery and/or
   chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or reconstructive surgery. Additionally,
   recovery phase parameters associated with terminal prognosis data can e.g. be
   triggered in a patient data flow pathway by means of a critical illness trigger of the
35 core engine. As a further embodiment variant, a third parametric payment is

                                                    12
   transferred by the triggering of the recovery phase parameters and/or terminal
   prognosis parameters. As a further variant, the critical illness data of the patient
   dataflow pathway of the risk exposure component can e.g. additionally be transferred
   to an automated employee assistance system (EAP: Employee Assistance Program)
 5 providing automated support to the risk exposure component. Alternatively or in
   addition, the critical illness data of the patient daltaflow pathway of the risk exposure
   component can e.g. be transferred to an alert system of an Citizens Advice Bureau
   (CAB) to activate automated or at least semi-automated, CAB actions. It can also be
   advantageously that the patient daltaflow pathway is e.g. monitored by the resource
10 pooling system by capturing patient-measuring parameters of the patient data flow
   pathway at least periodically and/or within predefined time frames or periods. Finally,
   the patient data flow pathway can e.g. be dynamically monitored by the resource
   pooling system in that it triggers patient-measuring parameters of the patient daltaflow
   pathway transmitted from associated measuring systems. The invention has, inter alia,
15 the advantage that the system provides the technical means to meet customer needs
   related to the financial hardships at the time of the diagnosis of an chronic or acute
   critical illness, which will become more acute as the treatment progresses. Therefore,
   cancer fears and the related consequences that are suffered by many people can be
   met with the automated resource-pooling system according to the invention. The
20 system has, furthermore, the advantage that smaller payments than in traditional
   critical illness systems are sufficient to allow for a safe operation of the system. The
   operational aspects of the system are transparent for operators as well as covered risk
   units, since payment is transferred in response to certain triggers on the cancer patient's
   information pathways. The system is able to provide an adaptable survival period e.g.
25 14, 21 or 28 days, to be confirmed or defined by the risk transfer. The system is further
   able to provide the technical implementation of an automated system that is based on
   a drawdown payment operation or a predefined payment operation. The system also
   provides the technical means, which can support different underwriting options, such
   as (i) underwritten with a set of questions, (ii) in/out underwriting, (iii) inclusion or
30 exclusion of Pre-Existing Condition Exclusion (PECE) and/or a Related Conditions
   Exclusion with the associated problems of risk transfer. PECE-problems are based on the
   fact that resource-pooling systems are often required by an employer to create safety
   provisions, if there is a diagnosis of a critical illness in an employee, in order to provide a
   lump sum benefit for an employee (or the employee's spouse or children, if comprised
35 in the risk transfer), who is diagnosed with one of the defined medical conditions or

                                                   13
undergoes one of the listed surgical procedures. However, many systems fail to take over risk
transfers if the individual suffered from the insured condition, before the risk transfer was
activated (this is known as the Pre-Existing Condition Exclusion), or because the individual
suffered from a condition that led to a claim under the insured illness - for example, it was
known that an individual suffered from high blood pressure before the risk transfer being
activated, and suffered a stroke after the risk transfer had been activated. Another advantage of
the system is based on the fact that payments are directly transferred to the risk transfer unit or
the consumer/client. Therefore, the system is able to enhance critical illness insurance offerings
by independent financial advisers (IFA). IFAs are persons who give impartial advice to clients
on financial matters and who are not employed by any financial institution, although
commissions for the sale of products may be received. Especially the IFA service is made
completely cost-transparent to the consumer.
              In an embodiment variant, at least one of the above-mentioned objects for risk
sharing of critical illness risks of a variable number of risk exposure components is achieved,
particularly, by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for the risk exposure
components by means of the critical illness insurance system based on a resource-pooling
system, in that risk-related component data are processed by an assembly module of the
resource-pooling system and the likelihood of said risk exposure is provided by means of the
assembly module for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components based on the
risk-related component data, wherein the risk exposure components are connected to the
resource-pooling system by means of a plurality of payment receiving modules, and payment
data are received and stored by means of a payment data store from the risk exposure
components for the pooling of their risks, and wherein the resource-pooling system triggers a
patient dataflow pathway by means of critical illness triggers of an event-driven core engine in
order to provide risk protection for a specific risk exposure component based on received and
stored payments from the risk exposure components, in that a first risk contribution of each
pooled risk exposure components related to a first diagnosis of a critical illness is associated
with risk exposure of each pooled risk exposure component, and the total risk of the pooled risk
exposure components is determined by means of the resource-pooling system, wherein the
critical illness is comprised in a predefined searchable table of critical illnesses, and wherein
critical illness losses occur as a consequence of the first diagnosis of risk exposure components
due to any one of the searchable critical

                                                     14
   illnesses, in that a first risk contribution of each of the pooled risk exposure components
   related to a second and/or successional risk contribution diagnosis of a critical illness is
   associated with risk exposure of each pooled risk exposure component, and the total
   risk of the pooled risk exposure components is determined by means of the resource
 5 pooling system, wherein the critical illness is comprised in the predefined searchable
   table of critical illnesses, and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence of
   the second and/or successional diagnosis of risk exposure components due to any one
   of the searchable critical illnesses, in that, in case an occurrence of a first or second or
   successional critical illness on the patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure
10 component istriggered, a corresponding trigger-flag isset by means of the resource
   pooling system and a parametric draw-down transfer of payments is assigned to this
   corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the first or second or
   successional critical illness is distinctly covered by the resource-pooling system based on
   the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored payment parameters
15 from risk exposure components by the parametric draw-down transfer from the
   resource-pooling system to the risk exposure component, and in that a first parametric
   payment is transferred by the triggering of the occurrence of the critical illness, a
   second parametric payment is transferred by the triggering of an acute treatment
   phase, and a third parametric payment is transferred by the triggering of an recovery
20 phase associated with terminal prognosis data. This embodiment variant has the
   advantage of further providing a parametric draw-down payment. It is clear to a man
   skilled in the art, that the present system can easily be expanded to comprise more
   than the herein described three trigger-levels.
                  In one embodiment variant, the receiving and preconditioned storage of
25 payments from risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks is dynamically
   determined based on total risk and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled
   risk exposure components. This embodiment variant has, inter alia, the advantage that
   the operation of the resource-pooling system can be dynamically adapted to
   changing conditions of the pooled risk, as, for example, changing demographic
30 conditions or changing age distributions or the like of the pooled risk components. A
   further advantage is that the system needs no manual adaption, when it is operated in
   different environments, places or countries, because the size of the payments of the risk
   exposure components is directly related to the totally pooled risk.

                                                  15
                 In another embodiment variant, the number of pooled risk exposure
   components is dynamically adapted, by means of the resource-pooling system, to a
   range where non-covariant occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling system
   affect only a relatively small proportion of the total pooled risk exposure components at
 5 a given time. This variant has, inter alia, the advantage that the operational and
   financial stability of the system can be improved.
                 In a further embodiment variant, the critical illness triggers are dynamically
   adapted by means of an operating module based on time-correlated incidence data
   for a critical illness condition and/or diagnosis or treatment conditions indicating
10 improvements in diagnosis or treatment. This variant has, inter alia, the advantage that
   improvements in diagnosis or treatment can be dynamically captured by the system
   and dynamically affect the overall operation of the system based on the total risk of
   the pooled risk exposure components.
                 In yet another embodiment variant, the first, second and third parametric
15 payment are leveled by a predefined total payment sum determined at least based on
   the risk-related component data and/or on the likelihood of the risk exposure for one or
   a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components based on the risk-related
   component data, and wherein the first parametric payment that is transferred is up to
   30% of said total payment sum, and the second parametric payment that is transferred
20 is up to 50% of said total payment sum, and the third parametric payment that is
   transferred is up to the left over part given by said total payment sum, minus the actual
   first parametric payment and the second parametric payment. The predefined total
   payments can e.g. be leveled to any appropriate lump sum, such as, for example,
   $50,000 up to $500,000, or any other sum related to the total transferred risk and the
25 amount of the periodic payments of the risk exposure component. As embodiment
   variant of the realization of the system, the critical illness trigger e.g. can comprise multi
   dimensional trigger channels, wherein each of said trigger-flags isassigned to a first
   dimension trigger channel, comprising a first trigger-level triggering occurrence
   parameters of the critical illness, a second trigger-level triggering acute treatment
30 phase parameters, and a third trigger-level triggering recovery phase parameters
   associated with terminal prognosis data, and each of said trigger-flags is assigned to at
   least a second or higher dimension trigger channel, and comprises additional trigger
   stages based on the first, second and/or third trigger-level of the first dimension trigger

                                                   16
   channel. As a further variant, the critical illness trigger can also comprise multi
   dimensional trigger channels, wherein each of said trigger-flags isassigned to a first
   dimension of a trigger channels comprising a first trigger-level relative to triggering
   occurrence parameters of the critical illness, a second trigger-level relative to triggering
 5 acute treatment phase parameters, and a third trigger-level relative to triggering
   recovery phase parameters associated with terminal prognosis data, and each of said
   trigger-flags isassigned to a second dimension of trigger channels comprising a first
   trigger-level triggering on a first stage of progression-measuring parameters of the
   occurred critical illness, and one or more higher trigger-levels triggering on higher
10 stages of progression-measuring parameters of the occurred critical illness. This variant,
   inter alia, has the advantage that the draw-down payments or the payments of
   predefined amounts, which depend on the first, second or third trigger level, i.e. the
   different stages of triggers, allow for an adapted payment of the total sum that is
   dependent on the stage of the critical illness, as triggered by the system.
15               In one embodiment variant, a periodic payment transfer from the risk
   exposure components to the resource pooling system via a plurality of payment
   receiving modules is requested by means of a monitoring module of the resource
   pooling system, wherein the risk transfer or protection for the risk exposure components
   is interrupted by the monitoring module when the periodic transfer is no longer
20 detectable by means of the monitoring module. As a variant, the request for periodic
   payment transfer can be interrupted automatically or waived by means of the
   monitoring module, when the occurrence of indicators for critical illness is triggered in
   the patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component. These embodiment
   variants have, inter alia, the advantage that the system allows for a further automation
25 of the monitoring operation, especially of its operation with regard to the pooled
   resources.
                 In a further embodiment variant, an independent verification critical illness
   trigger of the resource pooling system isactivated in cases of a triggering of the
   occurrence of indicators for critical illness in the patient data flow pathway of a risk
30 exposure component by means of the critical illness trigger and wherein the
   independent verification critical illness trigger additionally is triggering for the
   occurrence of indicators regarding critical illness in an alternative patient data flow
   pathway with independent measuring parameters from the primary patient data flow

                                                   17
pathway in order to verify the occurrence of the critical illness at the risk exposure component.
As a variant, the parametric draw-down transfer of payments is only assigned to the
corresponding trigger-flag, if the occurrence of the critical illness at the risk exposure
component is verified by the independent verification critical illness trigger. These embodiment
variants have, inter alia, the advantage that the operational and financial stability of the system
can thus be improved. In addition, the system is rendered less vulnerably relative to fraud and
counterfeit.
         There is disclosed a completely automated, parametric, self-adaptable and self
maintaining, event-driven resource-pooling system automated for risk transfer by means of
electronically steered components through signal transmission via a network providing a
dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for a variable number risk exposure components, wherein
the system, realized based on electronic components and interacting interface devices, is self
maintaining by its technical means, wherein the risk exposure components are electronically
connected to the resource-pooling system by means of a plurality of payment-receiving modules
configured to receive and store payments from the risk exposure components for the pooling of
their risks and resources by signal transmission via a secure data transmission line of the
network, wherein the resource-pooling system comprises an electronic event-driven core engine
comprising critical illness triggers triggering in a patient dataflow pathway to provide risk
protection for a specific risk exposure component based on received and stored payments of the
risk exposure components, wherein the payments are transferrable and storable based on
component-specific payment parameters by electronic money transfer by means of the payment
receiving modules over an electronic network, and wherein the resource-pooling system
comprises a filter-module for capturing age-related parameters of risk exposure components and
for filtering risk exposure components associated with an age-related parameter greater than a
predefined age-threshold value by means of the predefined age-threshold value, wherein the
patient data flow pathway is monitored by the resource-pooling system in that measuring
parameters of the patient data flow pathway are captured, wherein the patient data flow pathway
is dynamically monitored and triggered for patient measuring parameters, which are transmitted
from associated measuring systems, wherein the resource-pooling system comprises a
predefined searchable table of acute and chronic critical illnesses parameters indicating the
occurrence of dementia or heart attack or cancer or a stroke or coronary artery by-pass surgery
or Alzheimer's disease or blindness or deafness or kidney failure or major organ transplant or

                                                   17a
multiple sclerosis or HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation or
Parkinson's disease or paralysis of limb or terminal illness in the patient dataflow pathway,
wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises a critical illness risk
contribution of each pooled risk exposure components associated to risk exposure in relation to
a diagnosis of an acute or chronic critical illness, wherein the acute or chronic critical illness is
comprised in a predefined searchable table of critical illnesses and wherein critical illness losses
occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure components with one of the
searchable critical illnesses, wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components
comprises at least a second risk contribution and/or third or additional successional risk
contributions, associated with risk exposure in relation to a second and/or successional critical
illness(es), and wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components is determined by
means of the resource-pooling system, wherein, in case an occurrence of an acute or chronic
critical illness on the patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component is triggered, a
corresponding trigger-flag is set by means of the resource-pooling system and a parametric
transfer of payments is assigned to this corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated
with the acute or chronic critical illness is distinctly covered by the resource pooling system
based on the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored payment parameters
from risk exposure components by the parametric transfer from the resource-pooling system to
the risk exposure component, wherein the resource-pooling system comprises an assembly
module to process risk-related component data and to provide the likelihood of said risk
exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components based on the risk-related
component data, wherein the dynamic, self-sufficient risk-protection is provided electronically
by means of the completely automated, self-adaptable system, wherein the receiving and
preconditioned storage of payments from risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks
is dynamically determinable based on total risk and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the
pooled risk exposure components, and wherein the number of pooled risk exposure components
is dynamically adaptable by means of the resource-pooling system to a range where
noncovariant occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling system affect only a relatively
small proportion of the totally pooled risk exposure components at a given time, wherein a first
parametric payment is transferred by triggering the occurrence of the acute or chronic critical
illness, a second parametric payment is transferred, in case of an acute critical illness, by a
triggering of an acute treatment phase of the acute critical illness or, in case of a chronic critical
illness, by triggering of a first treatment phase of the chronic critical illness, and a third
parametric payment is transferred, in the case of an acute critical illness, by a triggering of an

                                                    17b
aftercare phase linked to terminal prognosis data of the acute critical illness or, in case of a
chronic critical illness, by a triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic
critical illness, and wherein the critical illness triggers are dynamically adapted by means of an
operating module based on time-correlated incidence data for a critical illness conditions and/or
diagnosis or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.
         There is disclosed a completely automated, parametric, self-adaptable and self
maintaining, event-driven resource-pooling system automated for risk transfer by means of
electronically steered components through signal transmission via a network providing a
dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for a variable number risk exposure components, wherein
the system, realized based on electronic components and interacting interface devices, is self
maintaining by its technical means, wherein the risk exposure components are electronically
connected to the resource-pooling system by means of a plurality of payment-receiving modules
configured to receive and store payments from the risk exposure components for the pooling of
their risks and resources by signal transmission via a secure data transmission line of the
network, wherein the resource-pooling system comprises an electronic event-driven core engine
comprising critical illness triggers triggering in a patient dataflow pathway to provide risk
protection for a specific risk exposure component based on received and stored payments of the
risk exposure components, wherein the payments are transferrable and storable based on
component-specific payment parameters by electronic money transfer by means of the payment
receiving modules over an electronic network, and wherein the resource-pooling system
comprises a filter-module for capturing age-related parameters of risk exposure components and
for filtering risk exposure components associated with an age-related parameter greater than a
predefined age-threshold value by means of the predefined age-threshold value, wherein the
patient data flow pathway is monitored by the resource-pooling system in that measuring
parameters of the patient data flow pathway are captured, wherein the patient data flow pathway
is dynamically monitored and triggered for patient measuring parameters, which are transmitted
from associated measuring systems, wherein the resource-pooling system comprises a
predefined searchable table of acute or chronic critical illnesses parameters indicating the
occurrence of dementia or heart attack or cancer or a stroke or coronary artery by-pass surgery
or Alzheimer's disease or blindness or deafness or kidney failure or major organ transplant or
multiple sclerosis or HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation and/or
Parkinson's disease or paralysis of limb or terminal illness in the patient dataflow pathway,
wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises a first risk contribution

                                                    17c
of each pooled risk exposure components associated to risk exposure in relation to a first
diagnosis of a critical illness, wherein the critical illness is comprised in a predefined searchable
table of critical illnesses and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence to the first
diagnosis of risk exposure components with one of the searchable critical illnesses, wherein the
total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises at least a second and/or
successional risk contributions associated to risk exposure in relation to a second and/or
successional critical illnesses, wherein the critical illnesses are comprised in the predefined
searchable table of critical illness parameters, and wherein a critical illness loss losses occurs as
a consequence to the second and/or successional diagnosis of risk exposure components with
one of the searchable critical illnesses, wherein, in case an occurrence of a first or second or
successional critical illness on the patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component is
triggered, a corresponding trigger-flag is set by means of the resource-pooling system and a
parametric draw-down transfer of payments is assigned to this corresponding trigger-flag,
wherein a loss associated with the first or second or successional critical illness(es) is distinctly
covered by the resource pooling system based on the respective trigger-flag and based on the
received and stored payment parameters from risk exposure components by the parametric
draw-down transfer from the resource-pooling system to the risk exposure component, wherein
the resource-pooling system comprises an assembly module to process risk-related component
data and to provide the likelihood of said risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk
exposure components based on the risk-related component data, wherein the dynamic, self
sufficient risk-protection is provided electronically by means of the completely automated, self
adaptable system, wherein the receiving and preconditioned storage of payments from risk
exposure components for the pooling of their risks is dynamically determinable based on total
risk and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk exposure components, and
wherein the number of pooled risk exposure components is dynamically adaptable by means of
the resource-pooling system to a range where noncovariant occurring risks covered by the
resource-pooling system affect only a relatively small proportion of the totally pooled risk
exposure components at a given time wherein a first parametric payment is transferred by
triggering the occurrence of the acute or chronic critical illness, a second parametric payment is
transferred, in case of an acute critical illness, by a triggering of an acute treatment phase of the
acute critical illness or, in case of a chronic critical illness, by triggering of a first treatment
phase of the chronic critical illness, and a third parametric payment is transferred, in the case of
an acute critical illness, by a triggering of an aftercare phase linked to terminal prognosis data of
the acute critical illness or, in case of a chronic critical illness, by a triggering an ongoing care or

                                                  17d
management phase of the chronic critical illness, and wherein the critical illness triggers are
dynamically adapted by means of an operating module based on time-correlated incidence data
for a critical illness conditions and/or diagnosis or treatment conditions indicating improvements
in diagnosis or treatment.
         There is a method for risk transfer by means of electronically steered components
through signal transmission via a network by means of a completely automated, parametric, self
adaptable and self-maintaining, event-driven resource-pooling system by providing a dynamic
self-sufficient risk protection for a variable number of risk exposure components, wherein the
system, realized based on electronic components and interacting interface devices, is self
maintaining by its technical means, wherein the risk exposure components are electronically
connected to the resource-pooling system by means of a plurality of payment receiving modules
and payment data are received and stored by means of a payment data store from the risk
exposure components for the pooling of their risks, wherein the resource-pooling system triggers
a patient dataflow pathway by means of critical illness triggers of an electronic event-driven
core engine in order to provide risk protection for a specific risk exposure component based on
received and stored payments from the risk exposure components, wherein the payments are
transferrable and storable based on component-specific payment parameters by electronic
money transfer by means of the payment receiving modules over an electronic network, and
wherein risk exposure components associated with an age-related parameter greater than a
predefined age-threshold value are filtered and captured by means of a filter-module and the
predefined age-threshold value, wherein the patient data flow pathway is monitored by the
resource-pooling system in that measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway are
captured, wherein the patient data flow pathway is dynamically monitored and triggered for
patient measuring parameters, which are transmitted from associated measuring systems,
wherein acute and chronic critical illnesses parameters indicating the occurrence of dementia or
heart attack or cancer or a stroke or coronary artery by-pass surgery or Alzheimer's disease or
blindness or deafness or kidney failure or major organ transplant or multiple sclerosis or
HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation or Parkinson's disease or
paralysis of limb or terminal illness in the patient dataflow pathway, are stored by means of a
predefined searchable table, wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components
comprises a critical illness risk contribution of each pooled risk exposure components associated
to risk exposure in relation to a diagnosis of an acute or chronic critical illness, wherein the
acute or chronic critical illness is comprised in a predefined searchable table of critical illnesses

                                                   17e
and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure
components with one of the searchable critical illnesses, wherein the total risk of the pooled risk
exposure components comprises at least a second risk contribution and/or third or additional
successional risk contributions, associated with risk exposure in relation to a second and/or
successional critical illness(es), and wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure
components is determined by means of the resource-pooling system, wherein in case of
triggering of an occurrence of an acute or chronic critical illness in the patient data flow
pathway of a risk exposure component, a corresponding trigger-flag is set by means of the
resource-pooling system and a parametric transfer of payments is assigned to this corresponding
trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the acute or chronic critical illness is distinctly
covered by the resource pooling system based on the respective trigger-flag and based on the
received and stored payment parameters from risk exposure components by the parametric
transfer from the resource-pooling system to the risk exposure component, wherein risk-related
component data are processed by an assembly module of the resource pooling system and the
likelihood of said risk exposure is provided for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure
components based on the risk-related component data, wherein the dynamic, self-sufficient risk
protection is provided electronically by means of the completely automated, self-adaptable
system, wherein the receiving and preconditioned storage of payments from risk exposure
components for the pooling of their risks is dynamically determinable based on total risk and/or
the likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk exposure components, and wherein the
number of pooled risk exposure components is dynamically adaptable by means of the resource
pooling system to a range where noncovariant occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling
system affect only a relatively small proportion of the totally pooled risk exposure components
at a given time, wherein a first parametric payment is transferred by triggering the occurrence of
the acute or chronic critical illness, a second parametric payment is transferred, in case of an
acute critical illness, by a triggering of an acute treatment phase of the acute critical illness or, in
case of a chronic critical illness, by triggering of a first treatment phase of the chronic critical
illness, and a third parametric payment is transferred, in the case of an acute critical illness, by a
triggering of an aftercare phase linked to terminal prognosis data of the acute critical illness or,
in case of a chronic critical illness, by a triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the
chronic critical illness, and
       wherein the critical illness triggers are dynamically adapted by means of an operating
module based on time-correlated incidence data for a critical illness conditions and/or diagnosis
or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.

                                                   17f
        In addition to the system, as described above, and the corresponding method, the present
invention also relates to a computer program product that includes computer program code
means for controlling one or more processors of the control system in such a manner that the
control system performs the proposed method; and it relates, in particular, to a computer
program product that includes a computer-readable medium containing therein the computer
program code means for the processors.
Brief Description of the Drawings
        The present invention will be explained in more detail, by way of example, with
reference to the drawings in which:
        Figure 1 shows a block diagram illustrating schematically an exemplary parametric,
event-driven critical illness insurance system based on a resource-pooling system 1 according to
the invention for risk sharing of critical illness risks associated with elderly persons by
providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for a variable number of risk exposure
components 21, 22, 23, i.e. said elderly persons. The resource-pooling system 1 comprises an
assembly module 5 to process risk- related component data 211, 221, 231 and to provide the
likelihood 212, 222, 232 of said risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure
components 21, 22, 23, wherein the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 are connected to the
resource-pooling system 1 by means of a plurality of payment receiving modules 4 that are
configured to receive and store 6 payments 214, 224, 234 from the risk exposure components
21, 22, 23 for the pooling of their risks, and wherein the resource-pooling system 1 comprises an
event-driven core engine 3 that comprises critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33, which trigger a
patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 to provide risk protection for a specific risk

                                                    18
   exposure component 21, 22, 23. The patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 is
   monitored by the resource-pooling system 1 in that patient measuring parameters of
   the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 are captured, wherein the patient data
   flow pathway 213, 223, 233 is dynamically monitored and triggered for patient
 5 measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233, which is
   transmitted from associated measuring systems.
                  Figure 2 shows a block diagram illustrating schematically exemplary trigger
   stages of the resource-pooling system, wherein reference number 1001 is assigned to
   the triggering of the critical illness, for example the malignant cancer. Reference
10 number 1002 designates the triggering of the treatment phase, such as, for example,
   surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy or medications of drugs etc. Reference number
   1003 designates the triggering of the recovery phase or the triggering of the terminal
   illness and/or the aftercare phase. Finally, reference number 1004 designates the
   triggering of additional support services. Reference number 1004 gives an example of
15 additional trigger stages to the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 of the core engine
   module 3.
                  Figure 3 shows a diagram illustrating schematically an exemplary payment
   drawdown as it can be provided by the resource pooling system 1 in case of triggering
   critical illness at a risk exposure component.
20                Figure 4 shows a block diagram illustrating schematically an exemplary
   parameterization of the risk exposure for critical illness of the risk exposure components
   21, 22, 23. The reference numeral 520 gives the total transferred risk of a specific risk
   exposure component 21, 22, 23 comprising at least a first risk contribution 511, 521, 531
   for a first occurrence of a critical illness. Further, it comprises a second risk contribution
25 512, 522, 532 related to a second occurrence of a critical illness. It also can comprise
   third 513, 523, 533 and subsequent 51i, 52i, 53i risk contributions thereafter; i.e., "i" herein
   denotes the i-th risk distribution.
                  Figure 5 shows a diagram illustrating schematically the cumulative
   incidence of all mortality and dementia for elderly ICU survivors over three years,
30 adjusting for mortality as a competing risk. The dashed line is the cumulative incidence

                                                      19
   of all mortality during follow-up. The solid line is the cumulative incidence of dementia
   after adjusting for mortality as a competing event.
                 Figure 6 shows a diagram illustrating schematically the cumulative
   incidence of dementia by five year age categories. Cumulative incidence of
 5 dementia, adjusted for mortality as a competing event, by age.
                 Figure 7 shows a diagram illustrating schematically the cumulative
   incidence of dementia, stratified by (A) infection or severe sepsis, (B) acute neurologic
   dysfunction, (C) acute renal replacement therapy. Cumulative incidence (A. long
   dashed line is for infection, short dashed line is for severe sepsis, solid line is for no
10 infection; B. dashed line is for neurologic dysfunction, solid line is for none; C. dashed
   line is for acute RRT (renal replacement therapy), solid line is for none of dementia after
   adjusting for mortality as a competing event.
                 Figure 8 shows a flowchart illustrating schematically the exclusions of
   patients with previous indications of cognitive impairment for whom dementia could
15 have been an escalation of a pre-existing condition resulting in the final cohort
   indicating the risk for related occurrence of dementia as critical illness for elderly.
                 Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
                 Figure 1 illustrates, schematically, an architecture for a possible
20 implementation of an embodiment of the parametric, event-driven resource-pooling
   system 1 for risk sharing of critical illness risks associated with elderly persons. In Figure 1,
   reference numeral 1 refers to the resource-pooling system for risk sharing of the risk
   exposure components 21, 22, 23... The resource-pooling system 1 provides a dynamic
   self-sufficient risk protection and corresponding risk protection structure for a variable
25 number of risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, i.e.; persons or individuals, by its means.
   The system 1 includes at least one processor and associated memory modules. The
   system 1 can also include one or more display units and operating elements, such as a
   keyboard, and/or graphical pointing devices as a computer mouse. The resource
   pooling system 1 is a technical device comprising electronic means that can be used

                                                    20
   by service providers in the field of risk transfer or insurance technology for risk transfer
   related to critical illness risks (C). The invention seeks to technically capture, handle and
   automate complex related operations of the insurance industry. An other aspect is to
   synchronize and adjust such operations based on technical means. In contrast to the
 5 standard approach, the resource-pooling system also achieves an reproducible
   operations with the desired technical, repetitious accuracy because it is completely
   based on technical means, process flow and process control/operation.
                The resource-pooling system 1 comprises an assembly module 5 to process
   risk related component data 211, 221, 231 and to provide the likelihood 212, 222, 232 of
10 said risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22,
   23, etc. based on the risk-related component data 211, 221, 231. The resource-pooling
   system 1 can be implemented as a technical platform, which is developed and
   implemented to provide critical illness risk transfer through a plurality of (but at least
   one) payment receiving module 4. The risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, etc. are
15 connected to the resource-pooling system 1 by means of the plurality of payment
   receiving modules 4 configured to receive and store payments 214, 224, 234 from the
   risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,.... for the pooling of their risks in a payment data
   store 6. The plurality of risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 from a cohort of selected
   elderly persons, where during capturing the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 to be
20 pooled by the system 1, age-related parameters of risk exposure components are
   captured. Based on the captured age-related parameters the risk exposure
   components are filtered by means of a filter module, wherein by means of the filter
   module only risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 associated with an age-related
   parameter greater than a predefined age-threshold value are allowed to be pooled
25 by the system 1. The predefined age-threshold value can e.g. be set to 50 years or an
   appropriate other age allowing to select specific cohort of elderly persons. As an
   embodiment variant, the selection criterion can comprise further parameters as
   gender, origin, habits, urban or rural conglomeration etc.
                The storage of the payments can be implemented by transferring and
30 storing component-specific payment parameters. The payment amount can be
   dynamically determined by means of the resource-pooling system 1 based on total risk
   of the overall pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23. For the pooling of the
   resources, the resource-pooling system 1 can comprise a monitoring module 8

                                                  21
   requesting a periodic payment transfer from the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,
   etc. to the resource-pooling system 1 by means of the plurality of payment receiving
   modules 2, wherein the risk protection for the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,.... is
   interrupted by the monitoring module 8, when the periodic transfer is no longer
 5 detectable by means of the monitoring module 8. In one embodiment variant, the
   request for periodic payment transfers is automatically interrupted or waived by means
   of the monitoring module 8, if the occurrence 1001 of indicators for critical illness 71, 72,
   73 is triggered 31 in the patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component 21, 22,
   23,... The resource-pooling system 1 further comprises a predefined searchable table 7
10 of acute and/or chronic critical illnesses 71, 72, 73 parameters indicating the
   occurrence of dementia and/or heart attack and/or cancer and/or a stroke and/or
   coronary artery by-pass surgery, Alzheimer's disease and/or blindness and/or deafness
   and/or kidney failure and/or major organ transplant and/or multiple sclerosis and/or
   HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation and/or Parkinson's
15 disease and/or paralysis of limb and/or terminal illness and/or other any definable and
   measurable critical illnesses in the patient dalaf low pathway 213, 223, 233. The triggers
   31, 32, 33 are uni- or bidirectionally connected with the predefined searchable table 7
   of acute or chronic critical illnesses 71, 72, 73, wherein the triggering 31, 32, 33 is
   performed based on the acute and/or chronic critical illnesses 71, 72, 73 parameters
20 stored in the predefined searchable table 7. The critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can
   comprise a trigger 31 for triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating
   dementia based on measuring parameters associated with the permanent clinical loss
   of the ability to remember and/or reason and/or perceive, understand, express and
   give effect to ideas in the patient daltaflow pathway 213, 223, 233. The critical illness
25 triggers 31, 32, 33 further can comprise a trigger 31 for triggering measuring parameters
   indicating alcohol and/or drug abuse in the patient daltaflow pathway 213, 223, 233,
   wherein upon triggering measuring parameters indicating alcohol and/or drug abuse
   the related risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... ) is rejected from pooling of the risk
   and resources by means of the resource-pooling system 1.
30              As also illustrated schematically in Figure 1, the resource-pooling system 1
   includes a data storing module for capturing the risk-related component data and
   multiple functional modules; e.g., namely the payment receiving modules 4, the core
   engine 3 with the triggers 31, 32, 33, the assembly module 5 or the operating module 30.
   The functional modules can be implemented at least partly as programmed software

                                                  22
   modules stored on a computer readable medium, connected as fixed or removable to
   the processor(s) of system 1 or to associated automated systems. One skilled in the art
   understands, however, that the functional modules can also be implemented fully by
   means of hardware components, units and/or appropriately implemented modules. As
 5 illustrated in Figure 1, system 1 can be connected via a network, such as a
   telecommunications network, to the payment receiving module 4. The network can
   include a wired or wireless network; e.g., the Internet, a GSM network (Global System for
   Mobile Communication), an UMTS network (Universal Mobile Telecommunications
   System) and/or a WLAN (Wireless Local Region Network), and/or dedicated point-to
10 point communication lines. In any case, the technical electronic money schemes for
   the present system comprises adequate technical, organizational and procedural
   safeguard means in order to prevent, contain and detect threats to the security of the
   scheme, particularly the threat of counterfeits. The resource-pooling system 1 comprises
   further all necessary technical means for electronic money transfer and association e.g.
15 initiated by one or more associated payment receiving modules 4 over an electronic
   network. The monetary parameters can be based on all possible electronic and
   transferable means as e.g. e-currency, e-money, electronic cash, electronic currency,
   digital money, digital cash, digital currency, or cyber currency etc., which can only be
   exchanged electronically. The payment data store 6 provides the means for
20 associating and storing monetary parameters associated with a single of the pooled risk
   exposure components 21, 22, 23. The present invention can involve the use of the
   mentioned network, such as e.g. computer networks or telecommunication networks,
   and/or the internet and digital stored value systems. Electronic funds transfer (EFT),
   direct deposit, digital gold currency and virtual currency are further examples of
25 electronic money. Also, the transfer can involve technologies, such as financial
   cryptography and technologies enabling the same. For the transaction of the
   monetary parameters, it is preferable that hard electronic currency is used without the
   technical possibilities for disputing or reversing any charges. The resource-pooling
   system 1 supports, for example, non-reversible transactions. The advantage of this
30 arrangement is that the operating costs of the electronic currency system are greatly
   reduced by not having to resolve payment disputes. However, this way, it is also
   possible for electronic currency transactions to clear instantly, making the funds
   available immediately to the system 1. This means that using hard electronic currency is
   more akin to a cash transaction. However, also conceivable isthe use of soft electronic
35 currency, such as currency that allows for the reversal of payments, for example having

                                                   23
   a "clearing time" of 72 hours, or the like. The way of the electronic monetary parameter
   exchange applies to all connected systems and modules related to the resource
   pooling system 1 of the present invention, such as e.g. the payment receiving module
   4. The monetary parameter transfer to the resource-pooling system 1 can be initiated
 5 by a payment-receiving module 4 or on request of the resource-pooling system 1.
                 The resource-pooling system 1 comprises an event-driven core engine 3
   comprising critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 for triggering component-specific measuring
   parameters in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of the assigned risk exposure
   components 21, 22, 23, .... The patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 can e.g. be
10 monitored by the resource-pooling system 1, capturing patient-related measuring
   parameters of the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 at least periodically and/or
   within predefined time periods. The patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 can, for
   example, also be dynamically monitored by the resource-pooling system 1, by
   triggering patient-measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway 213, 223,
15 233 transmitted from associated measuring systems. Triggering the patient data flow
   pathway 213, 223, 233, which comprises dynamically recorded measuring parameters
   of the concerned risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,            the system 1 is able to
   detect the occurrence of a critical illness and dynamically monitor the different stages
   during the progress of the critical illness in order to provide appropriately adapted and
20 gradated risk protection for a specific risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, .... Such a risk
   protection structure is based on received and stored payments 214, 224, 234 from the
   related risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, .... and/or related to the total risk of the
   resource-pooling system ,1 based on the overall transferred critical illness risks of all
   pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ....
25                Figure 2 shows a block diagram with possible trigger stages, wherein
   reference number 1001 is assigned to the triggering of the critical illness, for example
   cancer; reference number 1002 designates the triggering of the treatment phase, such
   as, for example, surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy or the administration of
   medication, etc.; reference number 1003 designates the triggering of the recovery
30 phase or the triggering of the terminal illness and/or the aftercare phase.; and
   reference number 1004 designates the triggering of additional support services.
   Reference number 1004 gives an example of additional trigger stages to the critical
   illness triggers 31, 32, 33 of the core engine module 3. The critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33

                                                   24
   can e.g. comprise a trigger 31 for triggering the occurrence 1001 of the measuring
   parameters, indicating a heart attack and/or cancer and/or a stroke and/or coronary
   artery by-pass surgery in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233. Further, the
   critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can comprise a trigger 31 for triggering the occurrence
 5 1001 of measuring parameters indicating Alzheimer's disease, dementia, blindness,
   deafness, kidney failure, major organ transplant, multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS contracted
   by blood transfusion or during an operation, Parkinson's disease, paralysis of limb,
   terminal illness in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233. The majority of cases of
   occurrences of critical illness are typically related to heart attack, stroke and cancer, as
10 can be expected. The average age of individual 21, 22, 23, at which a critical illness
   can be detected in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233, is 41 years; however,
   this depends on the development of diagnostic and other medical means. These
   statistics are common for all countries where statistics are maintained. However, it is of
   great concern to observe the increasing number of critical illness occurrences
15 particularly regarding cancer cases. In most countries, this observed increase is more
   than 50%, and in some even 80%. Earlier diagnosis due to better diagnostic equipment
   may be partially responsible for these figures. Therefore, to ensure proper operation of
   the resource-pooling system 1, the definitions of the stored trigger parameters 71, 72, 73
   of critical illness in the trigger table 7 can be dynamically adapted based on a
20 monitoring of changing risks in the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23. In particular, the
   trigger parameters 71, 72, 73 can be region-specific, country-specific and/or specific of
   the total pooled risk, adapted or changed. New critical illnesses 71, 72, 73 can be
   added, while others can be deleted from the triggerable list of critical illnesses by the
   resource-pooling system, owing to better treatments or other changed environmental
25 conditions. In one embodied variant, the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can be
   dynamically adapted by means of an operating module 30, based on time-correlated
   incidence dates of a critical illness condition and/or diagnosis or treatment conditions
   indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.
                   In addition to the adaptation of the triggers 31, 32, 33, the amount of
30 requested payments from the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 can be accordingly
   adjusted by the resource-pooling system 1.Therefore the receiving and preconditioned
   storage 6 of payments 214, 224, 234 from risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... for the
   pooling of their risks can be determined dynamically, based on total risk 50 and/or the
   likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... To

                                                       25
   improve operational and functional security of the resource- pooling system 1 even
   further, the number of pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... can be
   dynamically adapted by means of the resource-pooling system 1 to a range where
   non-covariant, occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling system 1 affect only a
 5 relatively small proportion of the totally pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,
   at a given time.
                 The total risk 50 of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... can
   comprise several risk contributions, as it can comprise a first risk contribution 511, 521,
   531 of each pooled risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, ... that is associated with risk
10 exposure in relation to a first diagnosis of a critical illness. The triggering parameters 71,
   72, 73 of the covered critical illnesses is comprised and stored in a predefined
   searchable table 7, such as e.g. an appropriately structured hash table, of critical
   illnesses 71, 72, 73, respectively critical illness parameters 71, 72, 73. The critical illness
   losses occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure components 21, 22,
15 23, ... with regard to one of the searchable critical illnesses; i.e., the possible need of a
   risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... to be covered by the pooled resources of the
   resource-pooling system 1 is linked to the risk of the occurrence of a critical illness
   requiring complex medical treatment and handling. The total risk 50 of the pooled risk
   exposure components 21, 22, 23,... can further comprise a second risk contribution
20 512,522,523 and/or third or additional successional risk contributions
   513/521/.. .51 i/52i/53i; i.e., up to the i-th risk contribution, associated with risk exposure in
   relation to a second and/or successional critical illness(es). The critical illnesses 71, 72, 73
   for triggering the second risk contribution 512, 522, 523 and/or third or additional
   successional risk contributions 513/521/...51i/52i/53i are the same as for the first risk
25 contribution and comprised in the predefined searchable table 7 of critical illness
   parameters 71, 72, 73. However, in the primary embodiment variant, the total risk
   contribution is only based on a single triggering of an occurrence of a acute and/or
   chronic critical illness, i.e. the primary scheme isdesigned to be a single occurrence
   scheme following the diagnosis of specific condition, where there are multiple triggers
30 following each diagnosis, enabling the system to handle chronic critical illness.
                  Figure 4 shows a block diagram with an exemplary parameterization of the
   risk exposure for critical illness of the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23. The reference
   numeral 520 gives the total transferred risk of a specific risk exposure component 21, 22,

                                                    26
   23 comprising at least a first risk contribution 511, 521, 531 for a first occurrence of a
   critical illness. Further comprised is a second risk contribution 512, 522, 532 related to a
   second occurrence of a critical illness. Also comprised can be a third 513, 523, 533 and
   subsequent 51 i,52i,53i risk contribution; i.e., "i" denotes the i-th risk distribution.
 5                In case of triggering an occurrence of a first (or in case of multiple
   occurrence handling: second or successional) critical illness 71,72,73 on the patient
   dataflow pathway 213,223,233 of a risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, i.e. if a
   triggering of an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical illness 71, 72, 73
   goes into effect in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233, a corresponding
10 trigger-flag is set by means of the resource-pooling system 1 and a parametric draw
   down or predefined transfer of payments is assigned to this corresponding trigger-flag.
   A loss associated with the first or second or successional critical illness(es) 71, 72, 73 is
   distinctly covered by the resource-pooling system 1, based on the respective trigger
   flag and based on the received and stored payment parameters 214, 224, 234 from risk
15 exposure components 21, 22, 23 by the parametric draw-down or predefined transfer
   from the resource-pooling system 1 to the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23,etc. The
   payment receiving module 4 can, as an input device, comprise one or more data
   processing units, displays and other operating elements, such as a keyboard and/or a
   computer mouse or another pointing device. As mentioned previously, the receiving
20 operation of the payments with regard to the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 is
   monitored based on the stored component-specific payment parameters in the
   payment data store 6. The different components of the resource-pooling system 1, such
   as e.g. the payment receiving module 4 with the core engine 3 and the assembly
   module 5 can be connected via a network for signal transmission. The network can
25 comprise, e.g., a telecommunications network, such as a wired or wireless network,
   e.g., the internet, a GSM network (Global System for Mobile Communications), an UMTS
   network (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) and/or a WLAN (Wireless Local
   Area Network), a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) and/or dedicated point
   to-point communication lines. The payment receiving module 4 and/or core engine 3
30 and the assembly module 5 can also comprise a plurality of interfaces for connecting
   to the telecommunications network adhering to the transmission standard or protocol.
   As an embodied variant, the payment receiving module 4 can also be implemented as
   an external device relative to the resource-pooling system 1, which provides the risk

                                                     27
   transfer service via the network for signal transmission, e.g. by a secured data
   transmission line.
                A first parametric payment 211 is transferred by triggering the occurrence
   1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73 by means of the critical illness trigger 31 of the core
 5 engine 3, thus triggering the measuring parameters of the specific risk exposure
   component 21, 22, 23 in the related patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233. The first,
   second and third parametric payments are denoted in "units" in the examples
   according to table 1 to 5 (see below). The amount of those units (table 1 to 5) are just
   examples and can be either set as fixed running parameters of the system 1 for the
10 duration of the transferred risks or any other defined time frame, or dynamically
   adapted based upon possibly changing environmental boundary conditions, as e.g.
   medical or therapeutic cost, or based upon the total pooled resources by means of the
   system 1. The changing of the environmental boundary conditions can by dynamically
   triggered or captured by the system 1. One "unit" can be assigned to correspond to an
15 equivalent in a specific currency (e.g. EUROs, dollars or Swiss francs). The core engine 3,
   analogously to the resource-pooling system 1 and the other components of the system,
   isimplemented based on underlying electronic components, steering codes and
   interacting interface devices, such as e.g. appropriate signal generation modules or
   other modules interacting electronically by means of appropriate signal generation
20 between the different modules, devices, or the like. For example, the first parametric
   payment can be transferred by triggering 31 the occurrence 1001 of measuring
   parameters indicating the critical illness 71, 72, 73 of malignant cancer and/or smaller
   incidence of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and/or early prostate carcinoma. In the
   case of dementia, the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can comprise a trigger 31 for
25 triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating dementia based on
   measuring parameters associated with the permanent clinical loss of the ability to
   remember and/or reason and/or perceive, understand, express and give effect to
   ideas in the patient dalaf low pathway 213, 223, 233. The triggering measuring
   parameters indicating dementia can also comprise physical parameters and/or
30 psychological parameters and/or biochemical parameters and/or cognitive factors
   based on adrenal exhaustion factors and/or food and chemical reactions factors
   and/or nutritional deficiencies factors and/or stress factors and/or depression factors, or
   denial factors, indicating confirmed impairment of cognitive functions. In the case of
   stroke, the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can comprise a trigger 31 for triggering the

                                                    28
   occurrence of measuring parameters indicating stroke based on measuring
   parameters associated with the possibly permanent cognitive or motor impairment
   and/or indicating the time of an acute stroke episode in the patient daltaflow pathway
   213, 223, 233.
 5                A second parametric payment 212 is transferred by triggering measuring
   parameters in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 indicating the initiation of an
   acute or first treatment phase 1002 by means of the critical illness trigger 32 of the core
   engine 3. This is achieved by triggering 32 in case of an acute critical illness 71, 72, 73, of
   an acute treatment phase 1002 of the acute critical illness 71, 72, 73 or, in case of a
10 chronic critical illness 71, 72, 73, by triggering 32 of a first treatment phase 1002 of the
   chronic critical illness 71, 72, 73. For example, acute or first treatment phase parameters
   1002 indicating surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or
   reconstructive surgery can be triggered in patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 by
   means of a critical illness trigger 32 of the core engine 3. For example, the second
15 parametric payment can only be transferred by triggering 32 acute or first treatment
   phase parameters 1002, indicating surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy
   and/or reconstructive surgery. In the example of dementia the critical illness triggers for
   triggering 32 the first treatment phase 1002 of the chronic critical illness 71, 72, 73 can
   comprise first treatment phase parameters 002 indicating psychiatric or old-age in
20 patient care associated with the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, ... comprising
   acute in-patient admission parameters as a result of deterioration in dementia status
   requiring for urgent treatment. In the example of stroke the critical illness triggers for
   triggering 32 the first treatment phase 1002 of the chronic critical illness 71, 72, 73 can
   comprise first treatment phase parameter 1002 indicating a measured time interval of
25 the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, ... spend in hospital due to the triggered stroke.
                  Finally, a third parametric payment 213 is transferred, in the case of an
   acute critical illness 71, 72, 73, by a triggering 33 of an aftercare phase 1003 linked to
   terminal prognosis data of the acute critical illness 71, 72, 73. In case of a chronic
   critical illness 71, 72, 73, the third parametric payment 213 is transferred by a triggering
30 33 an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic critical illness 71, 72, 73. I.e.
   the third parametric payment 213 is transferred in case of an acute chronic illness by
   triggering measuring parameters in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233
   indicating the initiation of a recovery phase 1003 linked to terminal prognosis data by

                                                   29
   means of the critical illness trigger 33 by the core engine 3, and in case of a chronic
   critical illness analogously. For example, recovery phase parameters 1003 linked to or
   associated with terminal prognosis data are triggered in patient data flow pathway
   213, 223, 233 by means of a critical illness trigger 33 by the core engine 3. As a variant,
 5 the third parametric payment is only transferrable by triggering 33 recovery phase
   parameters and/or terminal prognosis parameters 1003 and/or ongoing care or
   management phase. In case of dementia, the critical illness triggers 31,32,33 for
   triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic critical illness 71, 72,
   73 can comprise ongoing care or management phase parameters indicating
10 permanent cognitive and/or motor impairment requiring continuous supervision of
   another person and/or ongoing care or management phase parameters indicating
   permanent cognitive and/or motor impairment requiring constant supervision of
   another person. In case of stroke, the critical illness triggers 31,32,33 for triggering an
   ongoing care or management phase of the chronic critical illness 71, 72, 73 can
15 comprise ongoing care or management phase parameters indicating permanent
   impairments of the cognitive functions and/or permanent cognitive and/or motor
   impairment requiring continuous supervision of another person and/or permanent
   cognitive and/or motor impairment requiring constant supervision of another person.
                  Therefore, if triggering 1001 takes effect, an occurrence of a first critical
20 illness 71, 72, 73 in the patient dalaf low pathway 213, 223, 233 of a risk exposure
   component 21, 22, 23, any associated loss is covered by the resource-pooling system 1
   based on the received and stored payments 214, 224, 234 from risk exposure
   components 21, 22, 23 by transferring a parametric diagnosis payment 2001 from the
   resource-pooling system 1 to the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc.; if triggering
25 1002 takes effect, an occurrence of an acute treatment phase or first treatment phase
   in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of an associated loss is covered by the
   resource-pooling system 1 based on the received and stored payments 214, 224, 234
   from risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 by transferring a parametric treatment phase
   payment 2002 from the resource-pooling system 1 to the risk exposure component 21,
30 22, 23, etc.; and if triggering 1003 takes effect, an occurrence of a recovery phase
   linked to terminal prognosis data or an ongoing care or management phase in case of
   a chronic critical illness in the patient data flow pathway and associated loss is covered
   by the resource-pooling system based on the received and stored payments 214, 224,
   234 from risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 by transferring a parametric recovery

                                                       30
   phase payment 2003 or an ongoing care or management phase payment 2003 from
   the resource-pooling system 1 to the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc. The first,
   second and third parametric payments can, for example, be leveled by a predefined
   total payment sum determined at least based on the risk-related component data 211,
 5 221, 231 and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk
   exposure components 21, 22, 23, etc., based on the risk-related component data 211,
   221, 231, wherein the first parametric payment is transferred up to 30% of said total
   payment sum, and the second parametric payment is transferred up to 50% of said
   total payment sum, and the third parametric payment is transferred up to the residual
10 part given by said total payment sum minus the actual first parametric payment and
   the second parametric payment. Such an exemplary payment draw-down as it can be
   provided by the resource-pooling system 1 in the event of a triggering of a critical illness
   at a risk exposure component is shown in the diagram of Figure 3.
                     As mentioned, the triggers 31,32, 33 are uni- or bidirectionally connected
15 with the predefined searchable table 7 of acute or chronic critical illnesses 71, 72, 73,
   wherein the triggering 31, 32, 33 is performed based on the acute or chronic critical
   illnesses 71, 72, 73 parameters stored in the predefined searchable table 7. The
   predefined searchable table 7 is multidimensionally structured, e.g. as a
   multidimensional hash-table. Each acute or chronic critical illnesses 71, 72, 73,
20 selectable in the multidimensional table has assigned to it triggerable measuring
   parameters according to the trigger-step to be performed by means of the resource
   pooling system 1, i.e. trigger 31 and/or trigger 32 and/or trigger 33. The stored trigger
   parameters of trigger 31, 32, 33 of the predefined searchable table 7 can for example
   comprise the following trigger dependencies. Further, as an embodiment variant, the
25 predefined searchable table 7 can also comprise a predefined amount for the first,
   second and/or third parametric payment assigned to the corresponding trigger 31, 32,
   33. The amount can be fixed for a time-period contracted with the risk-exposed
   component. However, in a preferred embodiment variant, the transferable parametric
   payments from the pooled resources by means of the resource pooling system 1 are
30 dynamically adaptable by the system 1, for example based on the pooled resources or
   based upon dynamically checked changing medical conditions or other boundary
   condition to the system 1 respectively to the associated and transferred risks.
                 Trigger 31                      Trigger 32             Trigger 33 (aftercare trigger
       (diagnosis trigger parameter)  (TreaTmenT Trigger parameTer for           parameer)
                                             cancer diagnosis)

                                                               31
  Cancer in situ or skin          2000       Radiotherapy - for          5000     Follow up surgery for          5000
  cancer (other than              Units      conditions covered          Units   "cancer" - excluding            Units
  malignanT melanoma)                        under cancer in siTu                surgery for conditions
  - thaT is TreaTed                          and main cancer                      covered under cancer in
                                             definiTions                         siTu definiTion
  Cancer, including               10'000     Radiotherapy - for          5000    Supporive/home                  5000
  invasive malignanT              Units      conditions covered          Units   suppor (ADL's) -                Units
  melanoma (excluding                        under cancer in siTu                 definiTion to be agreed
  cancer in siTu and other                   and main cancer
  pre-malignant                              definitions
  conditions)
                                             Chemotherapy - for          10'000   Physiotherapy - for            1500
                                             conditions covered          Units    conditions covered             Units
                                             under cancer in siTu                 under cancer in siTu and
                                             and main cancer                      main cancer definiTions
                                             definiTions
                                             Long Term drugs (>6         5000    Speech Therapy - for            1500
                                             monThs duraTion)            UniTs    condiTions covered             Units
                                             licensed by EMA and                  under cancer in siTu and
                                            supporTed by The                      main cancer definiTions
                                            TreaTing OncologisT as
                                             parT of going
                                            TreaTmenT (excludes
                                             experimenTal drugs)
                                            for condiTions covered
                                             under cancer in siTu
                                             and main cancer
                                             definiTions
                      Table 1: Trigger parameTer sTored in searchable Table 7 measured in The paTienT
             daTa paThway relaTed To cancer measuring parameTers. As seen in Table 1, The maximal
             Transferable uniTs under Trigger 31 are in This example 12'000 uniTs, under Trigger 32 25000
                                         uniTs and under Trigger 33 13'000 uniTs
5
                 Trigger 31                               Trigger 32                  Trigger 33 (afTercare Trigger
     (diagnosis Trigger parameTer)            (TreaTmenT Trigger parameTer for                 parameer)
                                                   coronary arTery disease
                                                          diagnosis)
  HearT ATTack diagnosis          10'000     Medical managemenT          3000     ConTinuing sympToms            5000
  - based for example on          UniTs      only (afTer MI              UniTs    needing furTher PCI            Units
  ABI (Association of                        (Myocardial InfarcTion)
  BriTish Insurers) definiTion               or AMI (Acute
                                             Myocardial InfarcTion)
                                             diagnosis)
                                             Percutaneous                5000     HearT failure needing          10'000
                                             Coronary Intervention       UniTs   implantable defibrillaTor.      UniTs
                                             (PCI) - 1 coronary
                                             arTery (afTer MI
                                             diagnosis)
                                             PercuTaneous                8000
                                             Coronary Intervention       UniTs
                                             (PCI) - 1 coronary
                                             arTery (afTer MI
                                             diagnosis)
                                             Exclude 2 sTens To   The

                                                               32
                                           same coronary arTery
                                           they are covered by
                                           the 5000 uniT payment
                                           transfer
                                            Both procedures to be
                                            completed within a
                                            period of x days/weeks
                                           - and after MI
                                            diagnosis)
                                            CABG (Coronary              9000
                                           ArTery Bypass GrafTing)      UniTs
                                           - before or afTer MI
                                            diagnosis
                     Table 2: Trigger parameTer sTored in searchable Table 7 measured in The paTienT
            daTa paThway relaTed To coronary arTery disease measuring parameers (including hear
              attack). As seen in Table 2, The maximal Transferable uniTs under Trigger 31 are in This
               example 10'000 units, under Trigger 32 25000 units and under Trigger 33 15000 units
 5
                Trigger 31                                Trigger 32                Trigger 33 (afTercare Trigger
     (diagnosis Trigger parameTer)           (TreaTmenT Trigger parameTer for                parameer)
                                                      sTroke diagnosis)
   Surgery To prevenT            2000       lime in hospiTal as a       3000    PermanenT impairments          5000
   sTroke, on                    UniTs      resulT of sTroke            UniTs   meeTing cerTain ADLs - 3       UniTs
   recommendaion of                         diagnosis - shorT - less            of 5
   consulTanT neurologisT                   Than 2 weeks
                                            (physio/speech/OT)
   SToke diagnosis -             8000       lime in hospiTal - long -   7000    PermanenT impairmenTs          10'000
   episode lasTs longer          UniTs     2 weeks or more              UniTs   meeTing level II ADL - 1       UniTs
   Than 24 hours                            (physio/speech/OT                   of 3
                                            (Occupational
                                           Therapy))
                                                                                Following appropriate
                                                                                rehabilitation:
                                                                                PermanenT cogniTive or         5000
                                                                                moTor impairmenT               Units
                                                                                requiring conTinuous
                                                                                supervision of anoTher
                                                                                person
                                                                                PermanenT cogniTive or         10'000
                                                                                moTor impairmenT               Units
                                                                                requiring consTanT
                                                                                supervision of anoTher
                                                                                person
                     Table 3: Trigger parameTer sTored in searchable Table 7 measured in The paTienT
           daTa paThway relaTed To sTroke measuring parameers. As seen from Table 3, The maximal
            Transferable uniTs under Trigger 31 are in This example 10'000 uniTs, under Trigger 32 10'000
                                        uniTs and under Trigger 33 30'000 uniTs
10

                                                                 33
                 Trigger 31                                Trigger 32                       Trigger 33 (On-going care
      (diagnosis Trigger parameter)                 (On-going care Trigger             management Trigger parameter)
                                                   parameTer for demenTia)
   Diagnosis of demenTia          10'000      PsychiaTric or old-age        10000     PermanenT cogniTive or        10000
   by ConsulTanT                  Units      in-patienT care: Acute         Units     moTor impairmenT              Units
   Neurologist                               in-patienT admission as                  requiring conTinuous
   Gerontologist, or                          a result of deterioration               supervision of another
   NeuropsychologisT; with                   in demenTia staTus,                      person
   confirmed impairmenT                       resulTing in behaviours
   of cogniTive function                     that challenge and
                                              require urgenT
                                             TreaTmenT.
                                                                                      PermanenT cogniTive or        20'000
                                                                                      moTor impairmenT              Units
                                                                                      requiring consTanT
                                                                                      supervision of anoTher
                                                                                      person
             Table 4: Trigger parameTer sTored in searchable table 7 measured in the paTienT daTa
           paThway relaTed To demenTia measuring parameTers. As seen from Table 4, The maximal
           Transferable uniTs under Trigger 31 are in This example 10'000 uniTs, under Trigger 32 10'000
          uniTs and under Trigger 33 30'000 uniTs. The deTerioraTion can be measured in MMSE scores
 5           (Mini-MenTal-STaTus-Examination or Mini-MenTal-Status-Test). On average, persons with
            Alzheimer's disease who are noT receiving TreaTmenT lose Two To four MMSE points each
          year, cf. htp://www.alzheimers.org.uk/sie/scrips/documens-info.php~documenlD=121.
                 Trigger 31                                Trigger 32                       Trigger 33 (On-going care
      (diagnosis Trigger parameTer)                  (Ongoing care Trigger             managemenT Trigger parameTer)
                                                  parameTer for hip fracTure)
   Diagnosis of hip               10'000
   fracTure confirmed             Units
   following XR (X-Ray),
   MRI (Magnetic
   Resonance Imaging) or
   CT (Computer
   Tomography) scanning
             Table 5: Trigger parameTer sTored in searchable Table 7 measured in The paTienT daTa
10        pathway related To hip fracture measuring parameters. As seen from Table 5, The maximal
         Transferable uniTs under Trigger 31 are in This example 10'000 uniTs, under Trigger 32 and 33 no
          uniTs are ransferred by means of The sysTem 1. Table 5 is an example, where noT all Triggers
            are used, i.e. Trigger 31 is The firsT and final Trigger afTer Triggering hip fracTure measuring
         parameTers in The paTienT daTa paThway (no on-going Triggers 32 and/or 33). In The example
15                 of hip fracture, risk exposure persons having age 50+        - 25% die within 12/12.

                                                    34
                  As a further technical variant, the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 comprise
   multi-dimensional trigger channels. Each of said trigger-flags is assigned to a first
   dimension trigger channel comprising a first trigger-level triggering 31 on occurrence
   parameter 1001 of the acute or chronic critical illness 71, 72, 73, a second trigger-level
 5 triggering 32 on acute or first treatment phase parameter 1002, and a third trigger-level
   triggering 33 on recovery phase or ongoing care/management parameter 1003 linked
   to or associated with terminal prognosis data; and each of said trigger-flags is assigned
   to at least a second or higher dimension trigger channel and comprises additional
   trigger-stages based on the first, second and/or third trigger-levels of the first dimension
10 trigger channel. The critical illness trigger 31, 32, 33 can e.g. comprise multi-dimensional
   trigger channels, wherein each of said trigger-flags is assigned to a first dimension of a
   trigger channel comprising a first trigger-level triggering 31 on occurrence parameter
   1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73, a second trigger-level triggering 32 on acute
   treatment phase parameter 1002, and a third trigger-level triggering 33 on recovery
15 phase parameter 1003 linked to terminal prognosis data, and each of said trigger-flags
   isassigned to a second dimension of a trigger channel comprising a first trigger-level
   triggering 31 on a first stage of progression-measuring parameters of the occurrence
   1001 with regard to critical illness 71, 72, 73, and one or more higher trigger-levels
   triggering 32, 33,.... in higher stages of progression-measuring parameters of the
20 occurred critical illness 71, 72, 73.
                  In addition, the resource-pooling system 1 can be realized such that it
   transfers critical illness data in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of the
   related risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc., after triggering the occurrence of a
   critical illness 71, 72, 73, to an automated employee assistance system (EAP: Employee
25 Assistance Program) providing automated support to the risk exposure component 21,
   22, 23, etc. Analogously, by triggering the occurrence of an acute or chronic critical
   illness 71, 72, 73 by means of the critical illness trigger 31 by the core engine 3, critical
   illness data in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of the related risk exposure
   component 21, 22, 23, etc. can be transferred to an alert system of an Citizens Advice
30 Bureau (CAB) to activate automated or at least semi-automated CAB actions.
                  Finally, in a further specified embodied variant, an independent verification
   critical illness trigger of the resource-pooling system 1 can be activated in the event of
   a triggering of the occurrence 1001 of indicators for critical illness 71, 72, 73 in the

                                                     35
   patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of a risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc.
   by means of the critical illness trigger 31, and wherein the independent verification
   critical illness trigger additionally is triggering with regard to the occurrence 1001
   indicators for critical illness 71, 72, 73 in an alternative patient data flow pathway 215,
 5 225, 235 with independent measuring parameters from the primary patient data flow
   pathway 213, 223, 233 to verify the occurrence 1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73 at
   the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc. As a variant, the parametric draw-down or
   predefined transfer of payments is only assigned to the corresponding trigger-flag, if the
   occurrence 1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73 at the risk exposure component 21, 22,
10 23, etc. is verified by the independent verification critical illness trigger.

                                                   36
CLAIMS
1.     A completely automated, parametric, self-adaptable and self-maintaining, event-driven
resource-pooling system automated for risk transfer by means of electronically steered
components through signal transmission via a network providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk
protection for a variable number risk exposure components, wherein the system, realized based
on electronic components and interacting interface devices, is self-maintaining by its technical
means, wherein the risk exposure components are electronically connected to the resource
pooling system by means of a plurality of payment-receiving modules configured to receive and
store payments from the risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks and resources by
signal transmission via a secure data transmission line of the network, wherein the resource
pooling system comprises an electronic event-driven core engine comprising critical illness
triggers triggering in a patient dataflow pathway to provide risk protection for a specific risk
exposure component based on received and stored payments of the risk exposure components,
wherein the payments are transferrable and storable based on component-specific payment
parameters by electronic money transfer by means of the payment receiving modules over an
electronic network, and wherein the resource-pooling system comprises a filter-module for
capturing age-related parameters of risk exposure components and for filtering risk exposure
components associated with an age-related parameter greater than a predefined age-threshold
value by means of the predefined age-threshold value,
       wherein the patient data flow pathway is monitored by the resource-pooling system in that
measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway are captured, wherein the patient data
flow pathway is dynamically monitored and triggered for patient measuring parameters, which
are transmitted from associated measuring systems,
       wherein the resource-pooling system comprises a predefined searchable table of acute and
chronic critical illnesses parameters indicating the occurrence of dementia or heart attack or
cancer or a stroke or coronary artery by-pass surgery or Alzheimer's disease or blindness or
deafness or kidney failure or major organ transplant or multiple sclerosis or HIV/AIDS
contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation or Parkinson's disease or paralysis of limb
or terminal illness in the patient dataflow pathway,
       wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises a critical illness
risk contribution of each pooled risk exposure components associated to risk exposure in relation
to a diagnosis of an acute or chronic critical illness, wherein the acute or chronic critical illness is

                                                     37
comprised in a predefined searchable table of critical illnesses and wherein critical illness losses
occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure components with one of the
searchable critical illnesses, wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components
comprises at least a second risk contribution and/or third or additional successional risk
contributions, associated with risk exposure in relation to a second and/or successional critical
illness(es), and wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components is determined by
means of the resource-pooling system,
       wherein, in case an occurrence of an acute or chronic critical illness on the patient data
flow pathway of a risk exposure component is triggered, a corresponding trigger-flag is set by
means of the resource-pooling system and a parametric transfer of payments is assigned to this
corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the acute or chronic critical illness is
distinctly covered by the resource pooling system based on the respective trigger-flag and based
on the received and stored payment parameters from risk exposure components by the parametric
transfer from the resource-pooling system to the risk exposure component,
         wherein the resource-pooling system comprises an assembly module to process risk
related component data and to provide the likelihood of said risk exposure for one or a plurality
of the pooled risk exposure components based on the risk-related component data,
         wherein the dynamic, self-sufficient risk-protection is provided electronically by means
of the completely automated, self-adaptable system, wherein the receiving and preconditioned
storage of payments from risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks is dynamically
determinable based on total risk and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk
exposure components, and wherein the number of pooled risk exposure components is
dynamically adaptable by means of the resource-pooling system to a range where noncovariant
occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling system affect only a relatively small proportion
of the totally pooled risk exposure components at a given time,
         wherein a first parametric payment is transferred by triggering the occurrence of the acute
or chronic critical illness, a second parametric payment is transferred, in case of an acute critical
illness, by a triggering of an acute treatment phase of the acute critical illness or, in case of a
chronic critical illness, by triggering of a first treatment phase of the chronic critical illness, and
a third parametric payment is transferred, in the case of an acute critical illness, by a triggering of
an aftercare phase linked to terminal prognosis data of the acute critical illness or, in case of a
chronic critical illness, by a triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic
critical illness, and

                                                    38
         wherein the critical illness triggers are dynamically adapted by means of an operating
module based on time-correlated incidence data for a critical illness conditions and/or diagnosis
or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.
2.     The system according to claim 1, wherein the critical illness triggers triggering the first
treatment phase of the chronic critical illness comprise first treatment phase parameter indicating
a measured time interval of the risk exposure component spend in hospital due to the triggered
stroke.
3.     The system according to one of the claim 1 or 2, wherein the first and second and third
transferred portion of payment are generatable to sum up to the allocated total parametric
payment.
4.     The system according to one of the claims 1 to 3, wherein the allocated total parametric
payment is determined at least based on the risk-related components data and/or on the
likelihood of the risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components
based on the risk related components data and wherein the first portion is transferred up to 30%
of said total payments sum and the second portion is transferred up to 50% of said total payments
sum and the third portion is transferred up to the residual part given by said total payment sum
minus the actual portion and the second portion.
5.     The system according to one of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the resource-pooling system
comprises a monitoring module requesting a periodic payment transfer from the risk exposure
components to the resource-pooling system by means of a plurality of payment receiving
modules, wherein the risk protection for the risk exposure components is interrupted by the
monitoring module when the periodic transfer is no longer detectable by means of the
monitoring module.
6.     The system according to claim 5, wherein the request for periodic payment transfer is
interrupted or waived by the monitoring module when the occurrence of indicators for critical
illness is triggered in a patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component.

                                                   39
7.     The system according to one of the claims 1 to 6, wherein the resource-pooling system
comprises an independent verification critical illness trigger, which is activated in the event of a
triggering of the occurrence of indicators for critical illness in the patient dataflow pathway of a
risk exposure component by means of the critical illness trigger and which additionally, is a
triggering for the occurrence of indicators for critical illness in an alternative patient dataflow
pathway with independent measuring parameters from the primary patient data flow pathway to
verify the occurrence of the critical illness at the risk exposure component.
8.     The system according to claim 7, wherein the parametric transfer of payments is only
assigned to the corresponding trigger-flag, if the occurrence of the critical illness at the risk
exposure component is verified by the independent verification critical illness trigger.
9.     The system according to one of the claims 1 to 8, wherein the patient dataflow pathway is
monitored by the resource-pooling system by capturing patient measuring parameter of the
patient dataflow pathway at least periodically and/or within predefined time frames.
10.   A completely automated, parametric, self-adaptable and self-maintaining, event-driven
resource-pooling system automated for risk transfer by means of electronically steered
components through signal transmission via a network providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk
protection for a variable number risk exposure components, wherein the system, realized based
on electronic components and interacting interface devices, is self-maintaining by its technical
means, wherein the risk exposure components are electronically connected to the resource
pooling system by means of a plurality of payment-receiving modules configured to receive and
store payments from the risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks and resources by
signal transmission via a secure data transmission line of the network, wherein the resource
pooling system comprises an electronic event-driven core engine comprising critical illness
triggers triggering in a patient dataflow pathway to provide risk protection for a specific risk
exposure component based on received and stored payments of the risk exposure components,
wherein the payments are transferrable and storable based on component-specific payment
parameters by electronic money transfer by means of the payment receiving modules over an
electronic network, and wherein the resource-pooling system comprises a filter-module for
capturing age-related parameters of risk exposure components and for filtering risk exposure
components associated with an age-related parameter greater than a predefined age-threshold
value by means of the predefined age-threshold value,

                                                    40
       wherein the patient data flow pathway is monitored by the resource-pooling system in that
measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway are captured, wherein the patient data
flow pathway is dynamically monitored and triggered for patient measuring parameters, which
are transmitted from associated measuring systems,
       wherein the resource-pooling system comprises a predefined searchable table of acute or
chronic critical illnesses parameters indicating the occurrence of dementia or heart attack or
cancer or a stroke or coronary artery by-pass surgery or Alzheimer's disease or blindness or
deafness or kidney failure or major organ transplant or multiple sclerosis or HIV/AIDS
contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation and/or Parkinson's disease or paralysis of
limb or terminal illness in the patient dataflow pathway,
       wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises a first risk
contribution of each pooled risk exposure components associated to risk exposure in relation to a
first diagnosis of a critical illness, wherein the critical illness is comprised in a predefined
searchable table of critical illnesses and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence to
the first diagnosis of risk exposure components with one of the searchable critical illnesses,
       wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises at least a second
and/or successional risk contributions associated to risk exposure in relation to a second and/or
successional critical illnesses, wherein the critical illnesses are comprised in the predefined
searchable table of critical illness parameters, and wherein a critical illness loss losses occurs as
a consequence to the second and/or successional diagnosis of risk exposure components with one
of the searchable critical illnesses,
       wherein, in case an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical illness on the
patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component is triggered, a corresponding trigger-flag
is set by means of the resource-pooling system and a parametric draw-down transfer of payments
is assigned to this corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the first or second
or successional critical illness(es) is distinctly covered by the resource pooling system based on
the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored payment parameters from risk
exposure components by the parametric draw-down transfer from the resource-pooling system to
the risk exposure component,
       wherein the resource-pooling system comprises an assembly module to process risk-related
component data and to provide the likelihood of said risk exposure for one or a plurality of the
pooled risk exposure components based on the risk-related component data,

                                                     41
       wherein the dynamic, self-sufficient risk-protection is provided electronically by means of
the completely automated, self-adaptable system, wherein the receiving and preconditioned
storage of payments from risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks is dynamically
determinable based on total risk and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk
exposure components, and wherein the number of pooled risk exposure components is
dynamically adaptable by means of the resource-pooling system to a range where noncovariant
occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling system affect only a relatively small proportion
of the totally pooled risk exposure components at a given time
       wherein a first parametric payment is transferred by triggering the occurrence of the acute
or chronic critical illness, a second parametric payment is transferred, in case of an acute critical
illness, by a triggering of an acute treatment phase of the acute critical illness or, in case of a
chronic critical illness, by triggering of a first treatment phase of the chronic critical illness, and
a third parametric payment is transferred, in the case of an acute critical illness, by a triggering of
an aftercare phase linked to terminal prognosis data of the acute critical illness or, in case of a
chronic critical illness, by a triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic
critical illness, and
       wherein the critical illness triggers are dynamically adapted by means of an operating
module based on time-correlated incidence data for a critical illness conditions and/or diagnosis
or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.
11.    The system according to one of the claims 1 to 10, wherein the system comprises more
than said three trigger stages, the first three trigger stages associated with said trigger parameters
in the patient dataflow pathway and associated with said first, second and third draw-down
payment, and wherein the subsequent trigger stages are associated with measurable trigger
parameters and gradated parametric payments, indicating further gradation in the patient
dataflow pathway.
12.    A method for risk transfer by means of electronically steered components through signal
transmission via a network by means of a completely automated, parametric, self-adaptable and
self-maintaining, event-driven resource-pooling system by providing a dynamic self-sufficient
risk protection for a variable number of risk exposure components, wherein the system, realized
based on electronic components and interacting interface devices, is self-maintaining by its
technical means, wherein the risk exposure components are electronically connected to the

                                                   42
resource-pooling system by means of a plurality of payment receiving modules and payment data
are received and stored by means of a payment data store from the risk exposure components for
the pooling of their risks, wherein the resource-pooling system triggers a patient dataflow
pathway by means of critical illness triggers of an electronic event-driven core engine in order to
provide risk protection for a specific risk exposure component based on received and stored
payments from the risk exposure components, wherein the payments are transferrable and
storable based on component-specific payment parameters by electronic money transfer by
means of the payment receiving modules over an electronic network, and wherein risk exposure
components associated with an age-related parameter greater than a predefined age-threshold
value are filtered and captured by means of a filter-module and the predefined age-threshold
value,
       wherein the patient data flow pathway is monitored by the resource-pooling system in that
measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway are captured, wherein the patient data
flow pathway is dynamically monitored and triggered for patient measuring parameters, which
are transmitted from associated measuring systems,
       wherein acute and chronic critical illnesses parameters indicating the occurrence of
dementia or heart attack or cancer or a stroke or coronary artery by-pass surgery or Alzheimer's
disease or blindness or deafness or kidney failure or major organ transplant or multiple sclerosis
or HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation or Parkinson's disease or
paralysis of limb or terminal illness in the patient dataflow pathway, are stored by means of a
predefined searchable table,
       wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components comprises a critical illness
risk contribution of each pooled risk exposure components associated to risk exposure in relation
to a diagnosis of an acute or chronic critical illness, wherein the acute or chronic critical illness is
comprised in a predefined searchable table of critical illnesses and wherein critical illness losses
occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure components with one of the
searchable critical illnesses, wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components
comprises at least a second risk contribution and/or third or additional successional risk
contributions, associated with risk exposure in relation to a second and/or successional critical
illness(es), and wherein the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components is determined by
means of the resource-pooling system,
       wherein in case of triggering of an occurrence of an acute or chronic critical illness in the
patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component, a corresponding trigger-flag is set by

                                                     43
means of the resource-pooling system and a parametric transfer of payments is assigned to this
corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the acute or chronic critical illness is
distinctly covered by the resource pooling system based on the respective trigger-flag and based
on the received and stored payment parameters from risk exposure components by the parametric
transfer from the resource-pooling system to the risk exposure component,
       wherein risk-related component data are processed by an assembly module of the resource
pooling system and the likelihood of said risk exposure is provided for one or a plurality of the
pooled risk exposure components based on the risk-related component data,
       wherein the dynamic, self-sufficient risk-protection is provided electronically by means of
the completely automated, self-adaptable system, wherein the receiving and preconditioned
storage of payments from risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks is dynamically
determinable based on total risk and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk
exposure components, and wherein the number of pooled risk exposure components is
dynamically adaptable by means of the resource-pooling system to a range where noncovariant
occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling system affect only a relatively small proportion
of the totally pooled risk exposure components at a given time,
       wherein a first parametric payment is transferred by triggering the occurrence of the acute
or chronic critical illness, a second parametric payment is transferred, in case of an acute critical
illness, by a triggering of an acute treatment phase of the acute critical illness or, in case of a
chronic critical illness, by triggering of a first treatment phase of the chronic critical illness, and
a third parametric payment is transferred, in the case of an acute critical illness, by a triggering of
an aftercare phase linked to terminal prognosis data of the acute critical illness or, in case of a
chronic critical illness, by a triggering an ongoing care or management phase of the chronic
critical illness, and
       wherein the critical illness triggers are dynamically adapted by means of an operating
module based on time-correlated incidence data for a critical illness conditions and/or diagnosis
or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.
13.    The method according to claim 12, wherein the critical illness triggers triggering the first
treatment phase of the chronic critical illness comprise first treatment phase parameter indicating
a measured time interval of the risk exposure component spend in hospital due to the triggered
stroke.

                                                    44
14.    The method according to one of the claim 12 or 13, wherein the first and second and third
transferred portion of payment are generatable to sum up to the allocated total parametric
payment.
15.    The method according to one of the claims 12 to 14, wherein the allocated total parametric
payment is determined at least based on the risk-related components data and/or on the
likelihood of the risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components
based on the risk related components data and wherein the first portion is transferred up to 30%
of said total payments sum and the second portion is transferred up to 50% of said total payments
sum and the third portion is transferred up to the residual part given by said total payment sum
minus the actual portion and the second portion.
16.    The method according to claim 12, wherein by means of a monitoring module a periodic
payment transfer is requested from the risk exposure components to the resource-pooling system
by means of a plurality of payment receiving modules, wherein the risk protection for the risk
exposure components is interrupted by the monitoring module when the periodic transfer is no
longer detectable by means of the monitoring module, and/or the request for periodic payment
transfer is interrupted or waived by the monitoring module when the occurrence of indicators for
critical illness is triggered in a patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component.
17.    The method according to one of the claims 12 to 16, wherein an independent verification
critical illness trigger is activated in the event of a triggering of the occurrence of indicators for
critical illness in the patient dataflow pathway of a risk exposure component by means of the
critical illness trigger and which additionally, is a triggering for the occurrence of indicators for
critical illness in an alternative patient dataflow pathway with independent measuring parameters
from the primary patient data flow pathway to verify the occurrence of the critical illness at the
risk exposure component.
18.    The method according to claim 17, wherein the parametric transfer of payments is only
assigned to the corresponding trigger-flag, if the occurrence of the critical illness at the risk
exposure component is verified by the independent verification critical illness trigger.

                                                45
16.   The method according to one of the claims 12 to 18, wherein the patient dataflow pathway
is monitored by the resource-pooling system by capturing patient measuring parameter of the
patient dataflow pathway at least periodically and/or within predefined time frames.
17.   The method according to one of the claims 12 to 19, wherein the patient dataflow pathway
is dynamically monitored by the resource-pooling system by a triggering of patient measuring
parameters of the patient dataflow pathway transmitted from associated measuring systems.
                                Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd.
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>

