                                           ABSTRACT
Various embodiments include an apparatus comprising a non-transitory medium having
stored thereon a plurality of instructions that when executed cause a computing device to
perform a method comprising determining a first location of a mobile device, determining a
first configuration that may be used to generate outcomes of a game based on the first
location, determining a second location of the mobile device, wherein the second location is
different from the first location, and determining a second configuration that may be used to
generate outcomes of the game based on the second location, wherein the second
configuration is different from the first configuration.

WO 2008/101188           PCT/US2008/054128
                    1/13
                 CC
               Ic
               C4
           c

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
                               ZONE DEPENDENT PAYOUT PERCENTAGE
                                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 5  FIG. 1 shows a gaming system according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 2 shows a communications network according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 3 shows a gaming service provider in communication with a gaming communication device
    according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 4 shows a communications network according to sonic cibodiments.
10  FIG. 5 shows a gaming system according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 6 shows a wireless gaming system according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 7 shows a mobile gaming device with promotional content according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 8 is a block diagram of a gaming system in accordance with some embodiments.
    FIG. 9 is a block diagram of a payment system forming a part of the gaming system illustrated in
15  FIG. 8, according to sonic embodiments.
    FIG. 10 is a schematic diagram of a portable gaming device of the gaming system illustrated in
    FIG. 8, according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 11(a) is a flow diagram of a method of use of a portable gaming device by a player, according
    to some embodiments.
20  FIG. 11(b) is a flow diagram of a particular method of using the portable gaming device by a
    player, according to sonic embodiments.
    FIG. 12 is a flow diagram of a method of use of the portable gaming device by a gaming service
    operator, according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 13 is a flow diagram of a method of use of the portable gaming device according to some
25  embodiments.
                                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             In various embodiments, higher payout percentages are offered in certain locations than in
30  other locations. For example, in certain areas of a casino, such as in mall and shop areas, payout
    percentages of between 98% and 99% are offered. In other areas, payout percentages below 96%
    may be offered.
             In various embodiments, a benefit may be offered to a player of a game if the player is in
    one location, but not if the player is in another location. The benefit may include a higher payout
                                                     1

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    percentage, a free spin, an increased payout for an outcome, a higher probability of achieving a
    winning outcome and/or any other benefit.
              In various embodiments, a game may be configured in a first way in one location, and in a
    second way in another location. For example, a game may have a first color scheme if the game is
 5  played in a first location, but a second color scheme if the game is played in a second location. As
    another example, a mobile gaming device might require a player to bet a first amount in order to
    play a game while the player is in a first physical location, but the mobile gaming device might
    require the player to bet a second amount in order to play the game while the player is in a second
    physical location.
10            In various embodiments, games may be used that incorporate or suggest some aspect of a
    physical retail shop, restaurant or other physical fixture. For example, if a player is playing a
    mobile gaming device near a particular restaurant, the player may have the opportunity to play a
    game with the same color scheme used by the restaurant.
              In various embodiments, people may be encouraged to play mobile gaming device while
15  waiting in line. People may be allowed to reach the front of the line more quickly or may receive
    other benefits as a result of playing.
    How Different Payout Zones are Created
    Payout Zones that are Player Created
              In various embodiments, a player may choose three high-payout zones. A high-payout
20  zone may be any location (e.g., a physical location) where a player might receive the benefit of
    unusually high-payout percentages. For example, a player might select three from among a list of
    10 payout zones. These 10 places may be places that a casino or other party would be happy for the
    player to go. Once the player has selected certain zones, the casino may be able to infer
    information about player preferences. For example, the casino may infer that the player prefers to
25  frequent the chosen areas of the casino. The casino may use such information to tailor promotions
    to the player. For example, if the player prefers areas in a casino near particular types of retail
    shops, the casino may send marketing offers to the player for the types of products sold in those
    types of retail shops. The casino may also provide the player's name to third parties (e.g., to
    marketers) who sell products similar to those found in the player's preferred areas of the casino.
30  Further, once the player has selected zones with high payout percentages, the player will
    presumably know which zones he should frequent in order to gain high payout percentages.
              The following are various times when a player might be presented with the choice to select
    three high-payout zones.
         0    When the player picks up the mobile gaming device
35       0    When the player passes through one of the potential high-payout zones
                                                    2

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
         "    A high-payout zone could be given to a player as an upgrade. For example, the payout
              percentage for an area could be upgraded if the player hasn't passed through that area in a
              while. This might encourage the player to visit an area that he has not visited in a while.
         "    The choice could be presented to the player periodically. Therefore, if the player hasn't
 5            chosen one or more zones to have payouts at one point in time, the choice can be re
              presented.
         "    If stores close or restaurants close, then a player might be offered another zone with a high
              payout ratio to replace the one that was near those stores.
         *    A player should be able to change what are the high paying areas.
10
              In various embodiments, a player may choose any particular number of high-payout zones,
    not just three.
              In various embodiments, a player may choose areas with low payout percentages. When
    the player plays games on a mobile gaming device in such areas, the payout percentage for the
15  player may be lower than it is in other areas of the casino. In various embodiments, a player may
    choose zones or areas of a casino to have any other particularcharacteristic. For example, a player
    may choose a zone of a casino that will have a jackpot of $5000.
    Payout Zones that are Merchant Created
              In various embodiments, different areas (or shops in those areas) could bid on a particular
20  customer. A store could say that it is willing to sponsor higher paying outcomes for this person.
    The store could also sponsor higher probabilities of winning for the player, and/or the store could
    subsidize the bet required of the player. A merchant may sponsor any other benefit for a player. A
    merchant may sponsor a benefit that is provided to a player in various ways. The merchant may
    pay the casino for each game played by the player in which the player has an added benefit (e.g., a
25  higher jackpot). The payment by the merchant may offset the loss in expected value incurred by the
    casino as a result of providing the benefit. In various embodiments, the merchant may sponsor a
    greater payout for a particular outcome. The merchant may only be responsible for a payment in
    this case if the outcome is actually won by the player. Thus, in various embodiments, a merchant
    may fulfill obligations of sponsorship only if certain events that it is sponsoring actually occur.
30            Bidding for a player may occur in a number of ways. In various embodiments, a casino
    may transmit information about a player to one or more merchants. Information may include
    demographic information, prior purchases, products of interest to the player, the trip budget of the
    player, and any other information. The merchants may then submit bids, with each bid describing a
    monetary amount that the merchant is willing to contribute in order to sponsor a benefit for the
35  player. The merchant with the highest bid may then be able to sponsor the player. The merchant
    may thereby influence the player to conic to a location near to the merchant and even to visit the
    merchant itself.
                                                      3

 WO 2008/101188                                                                     PCT/US2008/054128
               In various embodiments, the casino may learn what areas a player goes to. The player
    might receive an offer saying, "Hey, you go here a lot, how about you put this place as your golden
    tier location so you can get a higher payout percentage." In this example, a "golden tier location"
    may refer to a location with an increased payout percentage. The casino may learn what areas a
 5  player goes to in various ways. The casino may maintain a record of games played by the player on
    various gaming devices, including standalone gaming devices. Knowledge of the locations of the
    standalone gaming devices may allow the casino to infer the location of the player playing the
    gaming devices. In various embodiments, the casino may periodically track a player with a mobile
    gaming device. The casino may thereby build up a record of the player's location and may thereby
10  infer what are preferred locations for the player.
               In various embodiments, when a player goes to a store and purchases an item, he may get a
    code. The code may give the player a right to receive a higher payout percentage. The right may
    last for a temporary period of time. In some embodiments, after a player makes a purchase, a code
    may be printed on the player's receipt. The player may type the code into his mobile gaming
15  device. The mobile gaming device may thereby increase the payouts for one or more outcomes,
    increase the probability for one or more winning outcomes, increase the number of winning
    outcomes, or reduce the required wager amount for the player. When the player keys in the code,
    the mobile gaming device may transmit the code to the casino server. The casino server may then
    request a payment from the merchant which provided the code, where such payment may
20  compensate the casino server for providing the benefit to the player. The casino server may
    recognize the merchant who provided the code because, in some embodiments, the casino server
    may maintain a database of codes that have been given to different merchants and an indication of
    which merchants such codes have been given to.
    Zones that are Created Based on Standalone Games
25             In various embodiments, different areas may have different denominations of bets
    required, or different betting minimums. The betting minimums could correspond to areas with
    betting minimums on the standalone games. For example, if nearby slot machines or other
    standalone devices only take bets of SI and up, the same would be true with a mobile gaming
    device in those areas.
30             In various embodiments, required bets for a player of a mobile gaming device in a given
    area may be a function of the required bets of a player of a standalone device in the same area. For
    example, the bets required of a player of a mobile gaming device may be a multiple of the bets
    required of a standalone device. For example, if a required bet at a slot machine is $100, the mobile
    gaming device minimum in the area may be $200. Thus, there may be a correlation between the
35  minimum bet required at a mobile gaming device and the minimum required at a standalone device
    in the same area. The bet required at a mobile gaming device may be more than that at a nearby
    slot machine, or less than that required at a nearby slot machine.
                                                    4

 WO 2008/101188                                                                    PCT/US2008/054128
             In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may be docked or otherwise linked to a
    standalone device. The standalone device may be used to present games played on the mobile
    gaming device, for example. For example, the standalone device may feature a larger display
    screen than does the mobile gaming device. In various embodiments, if a mobile gaming device is
 5  linked to a standalone device, the betting requirements at the mobile gaming device may be a
    function of the betting requirements at the standalone device to which the mobile gaming device is
    linked. For example, the minimum bet required at the mobile gaming device may be the same as
    the minimum bet required at the standalone device.
    Other Ways in Which Payout Zones are Created
10           The payout percentage of a mobile gaming device may be used to manage the supply of
    mobile gaming devices. If too many mobile gaming devices are in use (thus denying their use to
    new players), the payout percentages can be lowered. The payout percentages may be lowered for
    all mobile gaming devices currently in use, or the payout percentages may be lowered for only new
    mobile gaming devices being checked out. By lowering the payout percentage on one or more
15  mobile gaming devices, a casino may encourage a player to return the devices, thereby making the
    devices available for other players.
             In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may automatically change a feature of a
    game according to a preset time schedule. In various embodiments, a payout percentage may be
    reduced automatically after it has been checked out for four hours. This reduction in payout
20  percentage may encourage a player to return his mobile gaming device.
             In various embodiments, the casino or other entity may selectively offer high payout
    percentages for play at a mobile gaming device to people who are on stationary devices with high
    payout percentages. For example, suppose the average payout percentage at a stationary gaming
    device is 94%. Further, suppose that the average payout percentage of a mobile gaming device is
25  94%.    A player who is playing a stationary gaming device with a payout percentage of 97% may
    be offered the opportunity to play a game on a mobile gaming device with a payout percentage of
    96%.
             In various embodiments, the location of a high-payout percentage zone can slowly move.
    This can serve to keep people walking through a mall or to direct them to a desired location. Thus,
30  a person can stand still and fall out of a high-payout zone.
             In various embodiments, a high-payout zone can last temporarily and can be particular to
    each person. The duration of time a high payout zone lasts may depend on what incentives the
    casino wants to provide. For example, when a player is in a buffet, the high-payout zone may last a
    short period of time because the casino may want that person out of the buffet quickly. The high
35  payout zone may then move to an area outside the buffet.
                                                     5

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    Actions Upon Area Transition
              Various actions or protocols may be put in place to handle the transition of a player from
    one zone to another. For example, protocols may deal with the manner in which the payout
    percentage of a player's game may be increased as the player moves from one area of a casino to
 5  another area of the casino.
              In various embodiments, the mobile gaming device can switch from a first game to a
    second game upon transitioning into a new area. The two games may be identical except for the
    payout percentage. For example, the games may have the same symbols, background colors,
    methods of playing, and so on. The cards might be gold plated in one game (e.g., when a player is
10  in an area corresponding to a relatively high payout percentage), and normal looking when the
    player is in an area corresponding to a relatively low payout percentage. In various embodiments,
    different color effects on the game could correspond to different areas.
              In various embodiments, a player may or may not be notified that there has been a game
    switch.
15            When a player changes to a new location where there is a different payout percentage, the
    player may be alerted in various fashions. Visual or audio alerts may be provided. An audio alert
    may say, "You are moving to a new area. Please be aware that your payout percentage has now
    increased to 97%." A visual indication might include a different background color on the mobile
    gaming device, such as a red background color. A visual indication may also include a text
20  message. By alerting a player as to a change in the circumstances of his game, the player may be
    given an informed choice as to whether or not to continue with the game.
    User Interface
    Player
              In various embodiments, there could be a map, or visual display, which may take the
25  appearance of a topographical map, and which shows a player the areas of the high pay zones. In
    various embodiments, the map could be color coded or labeled with text describing the payouts in
    the various zones.
              If there is a mall directory or a shop directory, a player can look up the location of a shop
    and also look up the payout percentage in the area.
30  System Administrator
              For each player, the system administrator can generate a location history as a
    topographical map. The map may include a map of the premises (e.g., the casino premises) with
    colors or height indicating total time spent in different areas. Height may be shown on a 3D map,
    where the third dimension may come into view through rotation or translation of the map.          A map
35  may be created for each player, or for a group of players. A group may include all men, all people
                                                     6

 WO 2008/101188                                                                    PCT/US2008/054128
    in a certain age group, or any other demographic. The map may be created as the output of a
    database query.
    Variability Payouts to Manage Traffic in an Area
              In various embodiments, payout percentages or other factors which may influence benefits
 5  provided to a player may be adjusted so as to manage the number of people in any given area. For
    example, if there are too many players in an area, the payout percentage for some of those players
    may be reduced. If there are too few players in an area, the payout percentages may be increased.
              In various embodiments, regulations may prevent or discourage frequent alterations to
    payout percentages on mobile gaming devices. For example, it may be permissible only to change
10  payout percentages at the beginning of the day. Further, when payout percentages, payouts, or
    other relevant details of a game are changed it may be incumbent that the player be informed. In
    various embodiments, a casino or other entity may be barred from changing the payout percentage
    (or any other game feature) of a game for a player already playing the game. The casino may only
    be allowed to change the payout percentage for new players coming into the same area.
15  Implementation of Payout Zones
              In various embodiments, a computer data structure may be used to keep a record of payout
    percentages (or other game configurations) in different locations. For example, a lookup table may
    be used which contains a correspondence between locations in a casino and payout percentages in
    those locations. The lookup table may be stored in one or more places, such as in one or more
20  computing devices. The lookup table may be accessed by one or more entities. For example, each
    mobile gaming device may contain a copy of the lookup table stored in a memory of the device. As
    the mobile gaming device enters a new location, the mobile gaming device may use the lookup
    table to determine the payout percentage in the new location. The mobile gaming device may then
    configure the game it is playing in accordance with the payout percentage found in the lookup table.
25  A lookup table may also be stored with the casino server. The casino server may direct various
    mobile gaming devices to change their payout percentages by looking up the locations of the
    various mobile gaming devices in the lookup table, determining corresponding payout percentages,
    and transmitting an indication of the payout percentages to the mobile gaming devices. In
    embodiments where server based gaming is used, the casino server may itself generate outcomes
30  using game software with different payout percentages depending on the location of mobile gaming
    devices for which outcomes are being generated.
              In various embodiments, the location of a mobile gaming device may be used to detenine
    an increment to add to an existing payout percentage of a game. For example, a particular location
    may cause the payout percentage of a game to increase by 12%, so that the final payout percentage
35  depends both on the game and on the area in which the game is being played. In various
    embodiments, the payout percentage of a game is 90% + x, where x is a location dependent
    increment to the payout percentage of the game.
                                                   7

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
               In various embodiments, different players could have different payout percentages.
    Players may be alerted with audio, text, or other messages when their payout percentages change.
    These alerts may be personalized since the payout percentage for every player in a particular
    location may be different.
 5             In various embodiments, a player of a mobile gaming device may be able to select a game
    to play from among a plurality of offered games. The player may peruse a menu of games, for
    example, and select a game to play from the menu. In various embodiments, games may be added
    or deleted from the menu of available games depending on the location a player is in. For example,
    if the player is in a first location, games with high payout percentages may be deleted (or at least
10  grayed out so that it is clear the games cannot be selected). If the player is in a second location,
    games with high payout percentages may appear on the menu.
               In various embodiments, there may be a limited supply of a benefit that is disseminated to
    players. In various embodiments, the first X people to get to a location may be able to play games
    at a first relatively high payout percentage. After those people, other players may only have the
15  option of playing at a lower payout percentage. The scarcity of a benefit may encourage players to
    reach a location quickly.
               In various embodiments, a player's motion could influence whether a higher payout
    percentage is offered to the player. For instance, a player who is standing around in one place
    might be demonstrating boredom. Therefore, it may be an opportune time for the casino to give the
20  player an extra incentive to start playing.
               In various embodiments, public screens or displays around the casino could show the
    payout percentage or other location dependent game characteristic in an area.
    Switching from One Game to Another
               In various embodiments, a new payout percentage may be put in place by swapping out a
25  first game for a second game.
               In various embodiments, if a game has a payout percentage or other characteristic that the
    casino server does not wish to offer in a certain location (e.g., the payout percentage of the game is
    too high for the particular location), then downloading of the game to a mobile gaming device may
    be blocked. In various embodiments, any play of the game may be blocked.
30             In various embodiments, payouts are not changed while a player is playing. If payouts are
    changed, there may be a notification procedure to the player. In various embodiments, if there is a
    shift change, payout percentages may be changed.
               In various embodiments, switching one game for another, or one game characteristic for
    another may be permissible if the switch is based on a marketing idea. For example, switching one
35  game for another may be permissible if the switch just changes the background or other cosmetic
    elements of the game so as to promote some product service, or other marketing theme, without
    altering the characteristics of the game itself.
                                                     8

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              In various embodiments, if play is free for the player, then switching of games may be
    permissible.
              In various embodiments, if there is a switch of one cosmetic element for another, such as a
    game backdrop, then switching may be permissible.
 5  Other Economic Incentives besides Payout Percentages
              In various embodiments, it may not be permissible to actually change a game's payout
    percentage. When a player moves to a new area, there may be some other equivalent economic
    incentive that could be provided instead of just increasing the payout percentage. These incentives
    may include:
10       0    More comp points are provided to the player. For example, the player receives extra comp
              points per game.
         .    Content is provided to the player's mobile gaming device. Content may include, for
              example, MP3s, videos, stock quotes.
         "    Free games. For example, the player may be allowed to play one or more free games. The
15            player may even be able to win payouts or other prizes in the games.
         "    Giving players hints, such as what is the proper play in video poker.
         "    Giving out points to players in a separate account, with a certain level of points required
              before the points can be redeemed for a prize. The points could also be worth cash.
              However, the points may not be redeemable until the player gets a certain number of them.
20
              In various embodiments, regulations might require all different games on the mobile
    gaming device to be the same payout percentage. Thus, in various embodiments, all different
    games on a mobile gaming device may have the same payout percentage.
              In various embodiments, there may be a progressive jackpot that is localized to a particular
25  area. Thus, in various embodiments, each area of a casino may have its own progress jackpot. The
    incentive to go to a particular area may then be to get a higher progressive.
    Equivalents to Higher Payout Percentages
              There are several ways by which a higher payout percentage may be achieved. These
    include requiring lower wagers, providing higher payouts on one or more outcomes, providing
30  higher probabilities for one or more winning outcomes, and providing more winning outcomes.
    Implementations of Store Branded Games
              In various embodiments, a game may be given store branding, or otherwise altered to
    suggest a particular store. In various embodiments, a game may be altered to suggest a particular
    store, product, service, promotion, or any other idea, commercial or otherwise. A game may be
35  given branding by using a merchant's colors as colored elements in the game (e.g., as symbols), by
    using the merchant's colors as background colors, by using text, pictures or other graphics that are
                                                    9

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    suggestive of the merchant, by using audio which is suggestive of the merchant (e.g., by using the
    merchant's jingle in the game) and by any other means of giving a game a merchant's branding.
              In various embodiments, a player can download or play a merchant-branded game only
    when the player is within a certain range of the merchant.
 5            When a player plays a merchant branded game, the player's name may transmitted to the
    merchant. If the merchant is a restaurant and the player is in line for the restaurant, then the
    restaurant can then call the player by name from the line (as if the player had a reservation). The
    player can thereby bypass the line.
              In various embodiments, a merchant's products may be featured in a game. For example,
10  featured on the reels of a slot machine game could be the current menu specials, the current items
    on sale, and any other store promotions.
              In various embodiments, winnings from a branded game may go towards drinks, desserts,
    or other high margin items of a merchant. A player may thereby have the opportunity to win
    apparently high value items, although such items may have a much lower cost to the merchant who
15  is providing them.
              In various embodiments, a player may earn points through the play of a game. The game
    played may be either on a stationary gaming device or a mobile gaming device, in various
    embodiments. An indication of the number of points earned may be transmitted to the player's cell
    phone, mobile gaming device, or other hand-held device. For example, an SMS message with a
20  code may be sent to the player's cell phone. The code may encode or encrypt the number of points
    the player has earned. The number of points earned by the player may also be transmitted to the
    player's cell phone in plaintext so that the player may see how many points he has earned. The
    player may later use the points to receive a benefit at a merchant. For example, the player may use
    the points to receive a priority entry into a restaurant. The points may allow the player to bypass a
25  line or to receive preferential seating. The points may be redeemed, for example, by re-transmitting
    the code to the merchant. The merchant may have a computer with software capable of interpreting
    the code and determining how many points the code represents. In various embodiments, the
    merchant may transmit the code to the casino server and receive from the casino server an
    indication of how many points the code represents. In various embodiments, an indication of the
30  number of points earned by a player may be stored as a bar code. For example, a handheld device
    of the player may display a bar code which encodes the number of points earned by the player. The
    player may then present his hand-held device with the bar code to a merchant. The merchant may
    scan the bar code using bar code scanning technology. The merchant may thereby determine the
    number of points earned by the player, and may provide the player with a benefit accordingly.
35            A player may have various ways to redeem points for food or beverage items. A player
    might hand his mobile gaming device to a waiter. The waiter may then take the mobile gaming
    device and interface it with the point of sale system of the restaurant. The player's device might
    also generate a code representing how many points the player has accumulated. The restaurant can
    then record the code, ensuring the code is never used again for more items. The points earned may
                                                     10

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    only be date and location specific, so the restaurant doesn't have to worry that the points would be
    redeemed again at a later time or at another location.
               In various embodiments, free food or drinks from the restaurant are brought to those
    standing in line for the restaurant. In various embodiments, free food or drinks are brought to
 5  people who are both standing in line for the restaurant and playing a game on a mobile gaming
    device. In various embodiments, free food, drinks, or other benefits are brought to those standing in
    line for a restaurant who are playing a restaurant-themed game on a mobile gaming device while
    standing in line.
               In various embodiments, a player waiting to be seated at a restaurant may view
10  information about food items at the restaurant. The player may view ingredients, calories, and
    recipes for various food items on the mobile gaming device. The player may also view information
    about the chef, about ratings given to the restaurant (e.g., about Zagat ratings), and any other
    information about the restaurant or its food.
               In various embodiments, a player may be automatically placed on the reservation list for a
15  restaurant just by walking by the restaurant and responding to a prompt on his mobile gaming
    device. Using his mobile gaming device, the player may be able to view information about the
    restaurant, including information about how much wait time there is before the player may be
    seated at the restaurant. The player can even pick his table using the mobile gaming device.
               In various embodiments, everyone in line at the restaurant may be playing in a common
20  game. For example, everyone may be playing bingo. A screen in front of the restaurant may show
    the numbers being drawn.
               In various embodiments, a payout percentage for a game a player is playing may increase
    the longer the player waits in line at a restaurant or other merchant. In various embodiments, a
    player may provide his name to a restaurant employee so that his name may be put on a waiting list
25  to eat at the restaurant. At the same time, the player's name may be submitted to the casino server.
    Then, as long as the player plays his mobile gaming device near the restaurant and the player is not
    called to be seated, the payout percentage of the player's game may increase. Once the player is
    called to be seated, the restaurant may communicate the fact to the casino server. The casino server
    may then cause the payout percentage of the player's game to be set back to normal or its default
30  mode.     A player's frustration of waiting in line may be somewhat alleviated by the ability to
    receive higher payouts.
               In various embodiments, a restaurant may hand out mobile gaming devices. The devices
    could be handed out, for example, to players waiting in line. The devices may allow a player to
    play games while waiting. The devices may also provide alerts as to when a table is ready for
35  players to be seated.
               In various embodiments, merchants can sponsor play and higher payouts in certain areas.
    Certain payouts received may be redeemable for credits with the merchant. For example, a payout
    may be worth a S10 store credit at a particular merchant. The credit may have the effect of
    reducing a player's purchase total at the merchant by $10.
                                                     11

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              In various embodiments, aspects of a game may change based on the location in which the
    game is played. In various embodiments, the game name, theme, icons and pay table may change
    based on location. For example, if a player is near an Asian restaurant, the game may become
    Asian-themed, and the top prize may be five statues of Asian deities.
 5            In various embodiments, a card or other symbol in a game may be wild. For example, the
    card or symbol may be used in place of one or more other symbols, possibly of the player's choice.
    In various embodiments a wild card or other wild symbol may have an effect which depends on a
    player's location. For example, if a player is in a first location, a wild card may stand in for any
    ace. If a player is in a second location, a wild card may stand in for any face card. If a player is in
10  a third location, the wild card may stand in for any card. Thus, in various embodiments, the
    effectiveness or value of a wild card or wild symbol may vary with location. In various
    embodiments, the number of wild cards or symbols used in a game may vary based on a player's
    location. In a first location, three wild symbols may be used in a game. In a second location, four
    wild symbols may be used. In a third location, six wild symbols may be used. Thus, depending on
15  his location, a player may be more or less likely to receive wild symbols as outcomes of a game.
    The following are embodiments, not claims. Various embodiments include:
    E1. A method comprising:
20            determining a first location of a mobile gaming device;
              determining a first game configuration associated with the first location;
              generating a first game outcome using the first game configuration;
              determining a first payout associated with the first game outcome;
              crediting a player account with a first amount based on the first payout;
25            determining a second location of the mobile gaming device, wherein the second location is
    different from the first location;
              determining a second game configuration associated with the second location, wherein the
    second game configuration is different from the first game configuration;
              generating a second game outcome using the second game configuration;
30            determining a second payout associated with the second game outcome; and
              crediting the player account with a second amount based on the second payout.
    E2. The method of embodiment El in which determining a first game configuration includes
    determining a first payout percentage associated with the first location.
35
    E3. The method of embodiment El in which determining a first game configuration includes
    determining a first probability of occurrence for a third game outcome, wherein the first probability
    is associated with the first location.
                                                    12

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    E4. The method of embodiment El in which determining a first game configuration includes
    determining a first payout for a third game outcome, wherein the first payout is associated with the
    first location.
 5  E5. The method of embodiment El in which determining a first game configuration includes
    determining a first bet amount required for play of the mobile gaming device, wherein the first bet
    amount is associated with the first location.
    E6. The method of embodiment El in which determining a first game configuration includes:
10            accessing a lookup table which contains an ordered list of locations and associated game
    configurations;
              finding within the lookup table the first location; and
              determining that the first game configuration is associated with the first location.
15  E7. The method of embodiment El further including:
              transmitting to the mobile gaming device, after determining the second location, an
    indication of the second game configuration.
    E8. The method of embodiment E7 further including:
20            instructing the mobile gaming device to display the indication of the second game
    configuration.
    E9. The method of embodiment El further including transmitting to the mobile gaming device
    software for rendering the second game outcome according to the second game configuration.
25
    E0. The method of embodiment El in which determining a first game configuration includes
    determining a first image to be displayed during play at the mobile gaming device.
    E11. The method of embodiment E l in which determining a first game configuration includes
30  determining a first color to be displayed during play at the mobile gaming device.
    E12. The method of embodiment E l in which determining a first game configuration includes
    determining a name of a first merchant to be displayed during play at the mobile gaming device.
35  E13. A method comprising:
              determining that a person is waiting to be seated at a restaurant;
              providing a mobile gaming device to the person, in which the mobile gaming device
    features a game that incorporates information about the restaurant;
                                                   13

 WO 2008/101188                                                                     PCT/US2008/054128
              receiving an indication that the person has won a prize while playing the mobile gaming
    device; and
              providing the prize to the person.
 5  E14. The method of embodiment E13 in which the mobile gaming device features a game that has
    the name of the restaurant on one of the symbols used in the game.
    E15. The method of embodiment E13 in which the mobile gaming device features a game that has a
    depiction of one of the restaurant's menu items as a symbol in the game.
10
    E16. The method of embodiment E13 in which receiving an indication that the person has won a
    prize includes:
              receiving the mobile gaming device from the person; and
              reading from the display screen of the mobile gaming device an indication of the prize.
15
    E17. The method of embodiment E13 in which providing the prize includes providing a discounted
    menu item to the person.
    E18. The method of embodiment E13 in which providing the prize includes providing preferential
20  seating to the person.
    E 19. The method of embodiment E13 in which providing the prize includes allowing the person to
    bypass a line to be seated in the restaurant.
25  E20. The method of embodiment E13 in which determining that a person is waiting to be seated
    includes receiving a request from the person to be seated at the restaurant.
              In various embodiments, a game configuration may include: (a) any rules or algorithms
30  according to which resolutions or outcomes are generated in the game; (b) any rules or algorithms
    according to which information is presented in the game; (c) any information that is presented in the
    game; (d) any rules or algorithms that determine how payouts arc awarded in a game; and any other
    rules or algorithms which influence the results of a game, the manner in which a game is presented,
    or any other aspect of the game. A game configuration may include a payout percentage of a game.
35  For example, in a first configuration, a game may have a payout percentage of 90%, while in a
    second configuration a game may have a payout percentage of 95%. A game configuration may
    include a probability of a resolution or an outcome. For example, in a first configuration of a game,
    an outcome may have a probability of 1/1000. In a second configuration of a game, the outcome
    may have a probability of 1/1002. A game configuration may include a payout for an outcome. A
                                                    14

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    game configuration may include a bet amount required for play of a game. For example, in a first
    configuration, a required bet amount may be $1. In second configuration, a required bet amount
    maybe $0.95.
               In various embodiments, a casino server may store rules which determine what a game
 5  configuration should be as a function of location within a casino. The rules may take the form of a
    lookup table. The table may include an ordered list of locations. For example, locations may be
    listed from East to West, in alphabetical order, or in any other fashion. Associated with each
    location may be one or more game configurations. The casino server, in various embodiments, may
    receive an indication from a mobile gaming device that the mobile gaming device has moved to a
10  new location. The casino server may look up the new location in its lookup table. The casino
    server may determine an associated game configuration. The casino server may then transmit an
    indication of the game configuration to the mobile gaming device. For example, the casino server
    may transmit an indication of a payout percentage or a probability to the mobile gaming device. It
    will be appreciated that the casino server may store rules for associating game configurations with
15  location in any other fashion besides storing the rules in a lookup table.
               In various embodiments, software for rendering a game according to a particular
    configuration may include software for displaying images in the game according to the particular
    configuration, software for displaying a sequence of images according to the particular
    configuration (e.g., software for displaying an animated sequence according to the particular
20  configuration), software for conducting the game at a speed in accordance with the configuration
    (e.g., software for conducting the entire game in 4 seconds; e.g., software for conducting the entire
    game in 6 seconds) and software for conducting a game in any other fashion according to various
    configurations.
               In various embodiments, a person may wait in line at a restaurant. The restaurant may
25  provide the person with a mobile gaming device while he waits. Using the mobile gaming device,
    the person may play a game. The game may incorporate restaurant themes. For example, colors in
    the game may be the same colors used by the restaurant, such as on the walls, on the menu, on the
    table cloths, on the facade, and in any other part of the restaurant. The game may incorporate any
    other information about the restaurant. Symbols in the game may be images of food items, such as
30  images of pasta dishes or images of desserts. While playing a game, the person may win a prize.
    The prize may be a product or service from the restaurant. For example, the prize may be a free or
    discounted menu item. The prize may be the privilege of immediate seating at the restaurant. To
    claim a prize, the person may return his mobile gaming device to the restaurant. A restaurant
    employee may verify that the person has won a prize by looking at the display of the mobile gaming
35  device. The display may show a list of prizes won by the player. A restaurant employee may
    verify that the person has won a prize in other ways. For example, the employee may bring the
    mobile gaming device near to a point of sale (POS) terminal of the restaurant. The mobile gaming
    device may wirelessly communicate a signal to the POS terminal. The signal may indicate which
    prize has been won by the person.
                                                   15

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              In various embodiments, a distributed gaming system enables participants to engage in
    gaming activities from remote and/or mobile locations. The possible gaming activities include
    gambling, such as that provided by casinos. Gambling activities may include any casino-type
    gambling activities including, but not limited to, slot machines, video poker, table games (e.g.,
 5  craps, roulette, blackjack, pai gow poker, Caribbean stud poker, baccarat, etc), the wheel of fortune
    game, keno, sports betting, horse racing, dog racing, jai alai, and other gambling activities. The
    gaming activities can also include wagering on any type of event. Events can include, for example,
    sporting events, such as horse or auto racing, and athletic competitions such as football, basketball,
    baseball, golf, etc. Events can also include such things that do not normally involve wagering.
10  Such events may include, without limitation, political elections, entertainment industry awards, and
    box office performance of movies. Gaming can also include non-wagering games and events.
    Gaming can also include lotteries or lottery-type activities such as state and interstate lotteries.
    These can include all forms of number-selection lotteries, "scratch-off' lotteries, and other lottery
    contests. The gaming system may be implemented over a communications network such as a
15  cellular network or a private wireless and/or wireline network. Examples of the latter include WiFi
    and WiMax networks. In some embodiments, the gaming system communications network is
    entirely independent of the Internet. In some embodiments, the gaming system operation makes
    minimal use of the Internet, such that only information for which there are no security issues is
    transmitted via the Internet and/or such that information may be encrypted. In various
20  embodiments, the communications network enables players to participate in gaming from remote
    locations (e.g., outside of the gaming area of a casino). Also, the system may enable players to be
    mobile during participation in the gaming activities. In various embodiments, the system has a
    location verification or detennination feature, which is operable to permit or disallow gaming from
    the remote location depending upon whether or not the location meets one or more criteria. The
25  criterion may be, for example, whether the location is within a pre-defined area in which gaming is
    permitted by law.
              As shown in FIGURE 1, for example, gaming system 10 may include at least one user 12.
    The system may include additional users such that there is at least a first user 12 and a second user
    14. Multiple users may access a first gaming system 10, while other multiple users access a second
30  gaming system (not shown) in communication with first gaming system 10. Users 12 and 14 may
    access system 10 by way of a gaming communication device 13. Gaming communication device
    13 may comprise any suitable device for transmitting and receiving electronic communications.
    Examples of such devices include, without limitation, mobile phones, personal data assistants
    (PDAs), computers, mini-computers, etc. Gaming communication devices 13 transmit and receive
35  gaming information to and from communications network 16. Gaming information is also
    transmitted between network 16 and a computer 18, such as a server, which may reside within the
    domain of a gaming service provider 20. The location of computer 18 may be flexible, however,
    and computer 18 may reside adjacent to or remote from the domain of gaming service provider 20.
    Various embodiments may not include a gaming service provider. The computer 18 and/or gaming
                                                   16

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    service provider 20 may reside within, adjacent to, or remote from a gaming provider (not shown in
    FIGURE 1). The gaming service provider may be an actual controller of games, such as a casino.
    As an example, a gaming service provider may be located on the grounds of a casino and the
    computer 18 may be physically within the geographic boundaries of the gaming service provider.
 5  As discussed, however, other possibilities exist for remote location of the computer 18 and the
    gaming service provider 20. Computer 18 may function as a gaming server. Additional computers
    (not expressly shown) may function as database management computers and redundant servers, for
    example.
              In various embodiments, software resides on both the gaming communication device 13
10  and the computer 18. Software resident on gaming communication device 13 may be operable to
    present information corresponding to gaming activities (including gambling and non-gambling
    activities discussed herein) to the user. The information may include, without limitation, graphical
    representations of objects associated with the activities, and presentation of options related to the
    activities and selectable by the user. The gaming communication device software may also be
15  operable to receive data from the computer and data input by the user. Software resident on the
    computer may be able to exchange data with the gaming communication device, access additional
    computers and data storage devices, and perform all of the functions described herein as well as
    functions common to known electronic gaming systems.
              Gaming information transmitted across network 16 may include any information, in any
20  format, which is necessary or desirable in the operation of the gaming experience in which the user
    participates. The information may be transmitted in whole, or in combination, in any format
    including digital or analog, text or voice, and according to any known or future transport
    technologies, which may include, for example, wireline or wireless technologies. Wireless
    technologies may include, for example, licensed or license-exempt technologies. Some specific
25  technologies which may be used include, without limitation, Code Division Multiple Access
    (CDMA), Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM), General Packet Radio Service
    (GPRS), WiFi (802.1 1x), WiMax (802.16x), Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), Digital
    Subscriber Line (DSL), Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN), or cable modem technologies.
    These are examples only and one of ordinary skill will understand that other types of
30  communication techniques are also contemplated. Further, it will be understood that additional
    components may be used in the communication of information between the users and the gaming
    server. Such additional components may include, without limitation, lines, trunks, antennas,
    switches, cables, transmitters, receivers, computers, routers, servers, fiber optical transmission
    equipment, repeaters, amplifiers, etc.
35            In some embodiments, the communication of gaming information takes place without
    involvement of the Internet. However, in some embodiments, a portion of the gaming information
    may be transmitted over the Internet. Also, some or all of the gaming information may be
    transmitted partially over an Internet communications path. In some embodiments, some
    information is transmitted entirely or partially over the Internet, but the information is either not
                                                    17

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    gaming information or is gaming information that does not need to be maintained secretly. For
    instance, data that causes a graphical representation of a table game on the user's gaming
    communication device might be transmitted at least partially over the Internet, while wagering
    information transmitted by the user might be transmitted entirely over a non-Internet
 5  communications network.
              According to some embodiments, as shown in FIGURE 2 for example, the
    communications network comprises a cellular network 22. Cellular network 22 comprises a
    plurality of base stations 23, each of which has a corresponding coverage area 25. Base station
    technology is generally known and the base stations may be of any type found in a typical cellular
10  network. The base stations may have coverage areas that overlap. Further, the coverage areas may
    be sectorized or non-sectorized. The network also includes mobile stations 24, which function as
    the gaming communication devices used by users to access the gaming system and participate in the
    activities available on the gaming system. Users are connected to the network of base stations via
    transmission and reception of radio signals. The communications network also includes at least one
15  voice/data switch, which may be connected to the wireless portion of the network via a dedicated,
    secure landline. The communications network may also include a gaming service provider, which
    is likewise connected to the voice/data switch via a dedicated, secure landline. The voice/data
    switch may be connected to the wireless network of base stations via a mobile switching center
    (MSC), for example and the landline may be provided between the voice/data switch and the MSC.
20            Users access the gaming system by way of mobile stations which are in communication
    with, and thus part of, the communications network. The mobile station may be any electronic
    communication device that is operable in connection with the network as described. For example,
    in this particular embodiment, the mobile station may comprise a cellular telephone.
              In various embodiments, in the case of a cellular network for example, the gaming system
25  is enabled through the use of a private label carrier network. Each base station is programmed by
    the cellular carrier to send and receive private secure voice and/or data transmissions to and from
    mobile station handsets. The handsets may be pre-programmed with both gaming software and the
    carrier's authentication software. The base stations communicate via private T1 lines to a switch.
    A gaming service provider leases a private T1 or T3 line, which routes the calls back to gaming
30  servers controlled by the gaming service provider. Encryption can be installed on the telephones if
    required by a gaming regulation authority, such as a gaming commission.
              The cellular network may be a private, closed system. Mobile stations communicate with
    base stations and base stations are connected to a centralized switch located within a gaming
    jurisdiction. At the switch, voice calls are transported either locally or via long distance. Specific
35  service provider gaming traffic is transported from the central switch to a gaming server at a host
    location, which can be a casino or other location.
              As subscribers launch their specific gaming application, the handset will only talk to
    certain base stations with cells or sectors that have been engineered to be wholly within the gaming
    jurisdiction. For example, if a base station is close enough to pick up or send a signal across state
                                                     18

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    lines, it will not be able to communicate with the device. When a customer uses the device for
    gaming, the system may prohibit, if desired, the making or receiving voice calls. Moreover, voice
    can be eliminated entirely if required. Further, the devices may not be allowed to "connect" to the
    Internet. This ensures a high level of certainty that bets/wagers originate and terminate within the
 5  boundaries of the gaming jurisdiction and the "private" wireless system cannot be circumvented or
    bypassed. Although in some embodiments some data and/or voice traffic may be communicated at
    least partially over the Internet, the communication path may not include the Internet in other
    embodiments. Alternatively, in some embodiments, certain non-gaming information may be
    transported over a path which includes the Internet, while other information relating to the gaming
10  activities of the system is transported on a path that does not include the Internet.
               As shown in FIGURE 3, a gaming communication device 32 is in communication with a
    gaming service provider over a network 34. The gaming service provider preferably has one or
    more servcrs, on which are resident various gaming and other applications. As shown in FIGURE
    3, some example gaming applications include horse racing and other sports, financial exchange,
15  casino and/or virtual casino, entertainment and other events exchange, and news and real time
    entertainment. Each of these applications may be embodied in one or more software modules. The
    applications may be combined in any possible combination. Additionally, it should be understood
    that these applications are not exhaustive and that other applications may exist to provide an
    environment to the user that is associated with any of the described or potential activities.
20             In another embodiment, as shown in FIGURE 4, for example, the communications
    network comprises a private wireless network. The private wireless network may include, for
    example, an 802.1 lx (WiFi) network technology to cover "Game Spots" or "Entertainment Spots."
    In FIGURE 4, various WiFi networks are indicated as networks 41. Networks 41 may use other
    communications protocols to provide a private wireless network including, but not limited to,
25  802.16x (WiMax) technology. Further, networks 41 may be interconnected. Also, a gaming
    system may comprise a combination of networks as depicted in FIGURE 4. For example, there is
    shown a combination of private wireless networks 16, a cellular network comprising a multi
    channel access unit or sectorized base station 42, and a satellite network comprising one or more
    satellites 46.
30             With respect to the private wireless network, because the technology may cover small
    areas and provide very high-speed throughput, the private wireless network is particularly well
    suited for gaming commission needs of location and identity verification for the gaming service
    provider products. The gaming spots enabled by networks 41 may include a current casino area 48,
    new areas such as swimming pools, lakes or other recreational areas 49, guest rooms and
35  restaurants such as might be found in casino 48 or hotels 45 and 47, residential areas 40, and other
    remote gaming areas 43. The configuration of the overall gaming system depicted in FIGURE 4 is
    intended only as an example and may be modified to suit various embodiments.
               In some embodiments, the system architecture for the gaming system includes:
                                                    19

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    (1)       a wireless LAN (Local Access Network) component, which consists of mostly 802.1 lx
    (WiFi) and/or 802.16x WiMax technologies; robust security and authentication software; gaming
    software; mobile carrier approved handsets with Windows or Symbian@ operating systems
    integrated within; and
 5            (a) CDMA-technology that is secure for over-the-air data protection;
              (b) at least two layers of user authentication, (that provided by the mobile carrier and that
    provided by the gaming service provider);
              (c) compulsory tunneling (static routing) to gaming servers;
              (d) end-to-end encryption at the application layer; and
10            (e) state-of-the-art firewall and DMZ technologies;
    (2)       an MWAN (Metropolitan Wireless Access Network), which consists of licensed and
    license-exempt, point-to-point links, as well as licensed and license-exempt, point-to-multi-point
    technologies;
    (3)       private MAN (Metropolitan Access Network) T I and T3 lines to provide connectivity
15  where wireless services cannot reach; and
    (4)       redundant private-line communications from the mobile switch back to the gaming server.
              Each of the "Game Spots" or "Entertainment Spots" is preferably connected via the
    MWAN/MAN back to central and redundant game servers. For accessing the private wireless
    networks 41, the gaming communication devices may be WiFi- or WiMax-enabled PDAs or mini
20  laptops, and do not have to be managed by a third-party partner.
              In various embodiments, the gaming system includes a location verification feature, which
    is operable to permit or disable gaming from a remote location depending upon whether or not the
    location meets one or more criteria. A criterion may be, for example, whether the location is within
    a pre-defined area in which gaming is permitted by law. As another example, a criterion may be
25  whether the location is in a no-gaming zone, such as a school. The location verification technology
    used in the system may include, without limitation, "network-based" and/or "satellite-based"
    technology. Network-based technology may include such technologies as multilateration,
    triangulation and geo-fencing, for example. Satellite-based technologies may include global
    positioning satellite (GPS) technology, for example.
30            As previously discussed, the cellular approach preferably includes the use of at least one
    cellular, mobile, voice and data network. For gaming in certain jurisdictions, such as Nevada for
    example, the technology may involve triangulation, global positioning satellite (GPS) technology,
    and/or geo-fencing to avoid the potential for bets or wagers to be made outside Nevada state lines.
    In some embodiments, the network would not cover all of a particular jurisdiction, such as Nevada.
35  For instance, the network would not cover areas in which cellular coverage for a particular base
    station straddled the state line or other boundary of the jurisdiction. This is done in order to permit
    the use of location verification to insure against the chance of bets originating or terminating
    outside of the state. Triangulation may be used as a method for preventing gaming from
    unapproved locations. Triangulation may be accomplished, for example, by comparing the signal
                                                    20

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    strength from a single mobile station received at multiple base stations, each having GPS
    coordinates. This technology may be used to pinpoint the location of a mobile station. The
    location can then be compared to a map or other resource to determine whether the user of the
    mobile station is in an unapproved area, such as a school. Alternatively, GPS technology may be
 5  used for these purposes.
              As shown in FIGURE 5, the gaming system includes a plurality of gaming communication
    devices 54, 55, and 56. Device 54 is located outside the gaming jurisdiction 58. Devices 55 and 56
    are both located inside gaming jurisdiction 58. However only device 56 is located within geo-fence
    57, which is established by the coverage areas of a plurality of base station 53. Thus, geo-fencing
10  may be used to enable gaming via device 56 but disable gaming via devices 54 and 55. Even
    though some gaming communication devices that are within the gaming jurisdiction 58, such as
    device 55, are not permitted access to the gaming system, the geo-fence 57 ensures that no gaming
    communication devices outside jurisdiction 58, such as device 54, are permitted access.
              Geo-fencing may not specify location. Rather, it may ensure that a mobile station is
15  within certain boundaries. For instance, geo-fencing may be used to ensure that a mobile station
    beyond state lines does not access the gaming system. Triangulation on the other hand may specify
    a pinpoint, or near-pinpoint, location. For example, as shown in FIGURE 5, device 56 is
    triangulated between three of the base stations 53 to determine the location of device 56.
    Triangulation may be used to identify whether a device, such as a mobile station, is located in a
20  specific spot where gambling is unauthorized (such as, for example, a school). Preferably, the
    location determination technology utilized in conjunction with the present invention meets the
    Federal Communication Commission's (FCC's) Phase 2 E911 requirements. Geological Institute
    Survey (GIS) mapping may also be utilized to compare identified coordinates of a gaming
    communication device with GIS map features or elements to determine whether a device is in an
25  area not authorized for gaming. It should be noted that any type of location verification may be
    used such as triangulation, geo-fencing, global positioning satellite (GPS) technology, or any other
    type of location determining technology, which can be used to ensure, or provide an acceptable
    level of confidence, that the user is within an approved gaming area.
              In various embodiments, location verification is accomplished using channel address
30  checking or location verification using some other identifying number or piece of information
    indicative of which network or portion of a network is being accessed by the gaming
    communication device. Assuming the usage of an identifying number for this purpose, then
    according to one method of location checking, as an example, a participant accesses the gaming
    system via a mobile telephone. The identifying number of the mobile telephone, or of the network
35  component being accessed by the mobile telephone, identifies the caller's connection to the mobile
    network. The number is indicative of the fact that the caller is in a defined area and is on a certain
    mobile network. A server application may be resident on the mobile telephone to communicate this
    information via the network to the gaming service provider. In a some embodiments, the
    identifying number or information is passed from a first network provider to a second network
                                                   21

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    provider. For example, a caller's home network may be that provided by the second provider, but
    the caller is roaming on a network (and in a jurisdiction) provided by the first provider. The first
    provider passes the identifying information through to the second provider to enable the second
    provider to determine whether the caller is in a defined area that does or does not allow the relevant
 5  gaming activity. In various embodiments, the gaming service provider either maintains, or has
    access to, a database that maps the various possible worldwide mobile network identifying numbers
    to geographic areas. Various embodiments contemplate using any number or proxy that indicates a
    network, portion of a network, or network component, which is being connected with a mobile
    telephone. The identifying number may indicate one or more of a base station or group of base
10  stations, a line, a channel, a trunk, a switch, a router, a repeater, etc.
              In various embodiments, when the user connects his mobile telephone to the gaming
    server, the gaming server draws the network identifying information and communicates that
    information to the gaming service provider. The software resident on the gaming communication
    device may incorporate functionality that will, upon login or access by the user, determine the user's
15  location (based at least in part on the identifying information) and send a message to the gaming
    service provider. The identifying number or information used to determine location may be
    country-specific, state-specific, town-specific, or specific to some other definable boundaries.
              In connection with any of the location determination methods, the gaming system may
    periodically update the location determination information. This may be done, for example, during
20  a gaming session, at pre-defined time intervals to ensure that movement of the gaming
    communication device to an unauthorized area is detected during play, and not just upon login or
    initial access.
              Thus, depending on the location determination technology being used, the decision
    whether to permit or prohibit a gaming activity may be made at the gaming communication device,
25  at the gaming server, or at any of the components of the telecommunication network being used to
    transmit information between the gaming communication device and the gaming server (such as at
    a base station, for example).
              An aspect of the private wireless network related to preventing gaming in unauthorized
    areas is the placement of sensors, such as Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) sensors on the
30  gaming communication devices. The sensors trigger alarms if users take the devices outside the
    approved gaming areas. Further, the devices may be "tethered" to immovable objects. Users might
    simply log in to such devices using their ID and password.
              In various embodiments, a gaming system may include the ability to determine the
    location of the gaming communication device within a larger property, such as a casino complex.
35  This may allow certain functionalities of the device to be enabled or disabled based upon the
    location of the device within the property. For example, government regulations may prohibit using
    the device to gamble from the guest rooms of a casino complex. Therefore, particular embodiments
    may include the ability to determine the location of the device within the property and then disable
    the gambling functionality of the device from a guest room, or other area where gambling is
                                                     22

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    prohibited. FIGURE 6 illustrates an example of a wireless gaming system in which the location of
    a gaming communication device 604 may be determined in accordance various embodiments.
              As shown in FIGURE 6, a wireless gaming system comprises a wireless network that at
    least partially covers casino complex 600 in which one or more gaming communication devices 604
 5  may be used to participate in a variety of gaming activities. The wireless network may comprise at
    least three signal detection devices 602, although various embodiments may include fewer or
    greater than three signal detection. As shown in FIGURE 6, the wireless network comprises four
    signal detection devices 602, each located at one corner of casino complex 600. In various
    embodiments, these signal detection devices may comprise wireless access points, wireless routers,
10  wireless base stations, satellites, or any other suitable signal detection device. Furthermore,
    although signal detection devices 602 are illustrated as being located on the boundaries of casino
    complex 600, signal detection devices may be located anywhere inside or outside of casino
    complex 600, provided the signal detection devices are operable to receive signals originating from
    a gaming communication device 604 inside casino complex 600. In various embodiments, signal
15  detection devices 602 may also be used to transmit, as well as receive, signals to gaming
    communication device 604.
              In various embodiments, casino complex 600 may be divided into one or more zones 608,
    which represent different areas of the casino complex, such as the lobby, guest rooms, restaurants,
    shops, entertainment venues, and pool areas. For example, as shown in FIGURE 6, zone 608a may
20  correspond to the casino lobby, zone 608b may correspond to guest rooms, zone 608c may
    correspond to restaurants, and zone 608d may correspond to the gaming floor of the casino. Each
    zone 608 may be further divided into one or more sub-zones 606, each specifying a particular
    location within zone 608. Sub-zones 606 may be arranged in a grid formation, each sub-zone 606
    having a uniform size. In some embodiments, each sub-zone may comprise 9 square feet (i.e., 3
25  feet by 3 feet). In some embodiments, each sub-zone may comprise 100 square feet (i.e., 10 feet by
    10 feet). The choice of the size of an area covered by a sub-zone may depend on administrator
    preferences, technical limitations of the wireless network, and governmental regulations, as well as
    other considerations.
              Particular embodiments may use this mapping of casino complex 600 into a plurality of
30  zones 608 and sub-zones 606 to determine the location of gaming communication device 604
    within the complex. These embodiments may utilize the signal received by signal detection devices
    602 from gaming communication device 604 to determine the location of the device.
              In various embodiments, the location of gaming communication device 604 may be
    determined based upon the strength of the signal received by each signal detection device 602 from
35  device 604. In various embodiments, this may be accomplished using a Received Signal Strength
    Indication (RSSI) value or any other suitable indication of signal strength. Generally, the closer a
    sub-zone is to a signal detection device, the stronger the signal the signal detection device will
    receive from a gaming communication device located in that sub-zone. Therefore, given a plurality
    of signal strength readings taken from different points in the casino complex (i.e., signal detection
                                                    23

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    devices 602), these different signal strength readings may be used to determine the location of the
    device.
              With this in mind, each sub-zone 606 of casino complex 600 may be associated with a
    reference set of signal strengths received by the signal detection devices from a device located in
 5  that particular sub-zone. Typically, these values are generated, and periodically recalibrated, by
    taking a reference reading from a gaming communication device located that sub-zone. After each
    sub-zone is associated with a reference set of signal strengths, these reference signal strengths may
    be compared with the signal strengths received by the signal detection devices from a gaming
    communication device. Since each sub-zone has a unique set of signal strengths, this comparison
10  may be used to identify the particular zone in which the gaming communication device is located.
              In various embodiments, the location of gaming communication device 604 may be
    determined based upon an elapsed time between the transmission of the signal from device 604 and
    the receipt of the signal by each signal detection device 602. In various embodiments, this elapsed
    time may be determined based on a Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA), or any other suitable
15  technology. As before in the case of signal strengths, each sub-zone 606 may be associated with a
    predetermined, or reference, set of elapsed times from transmission to receipt of a signal from a
    gaming communication device. This set of elapsed times will be different for each sub-zone of the
    casino complex, as the time it takes a signal to reach each signal detection device will depend on
    the proximity of the sub-zone to each base station. By comparing the time from transmission to
20  receipt of a signal received by the signal detection devices from a gaming communication device,
    the sub-zone in which the device is located may be determined.
              Once the location of the gaming communication device has been determined, particular
    embodiments may then enable and/or disable particular functions of the device based on this
    determination. For example, as mentioned previously, particular embodiments may disable the
25  gaming communication device's gambling functionality from a user's guest room, while still
    allowing the user to use other device functions, such as purchasing merchandise or services, or
    buying tickets to an entertainment event. Once the user leaves his or her guest room, the gambling
    functionality of the gaming communication device may be enabled. Similarly, particular
    embodiments may prevent the gaming communication device from being used to make financial
30  transactions from the casino floor. Once the user leaves the casino floor, such functionality may be
    enabled. Similarly, other functionalities of the gaming communication device may be enabled or
    disabled based upon the location of the device within the property in accordance with various
    embodiments.
              In various embodiments, the various functionalities of the gaming communication device
35  may be enabled or disabled based upon the zone 608 in which the device is located. In such
    embodiments, each zone 608 of the casino complex may be associated with a set of allowed
    activities. For example, the "lobby" zone 608a of the casino complex may have all activities
    allowed, while the "guest room" zone 608b of the property may have all activities allowed except
    gambling. Based upon the gaming communication device's location, the functionality of the
                                                   24

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    gaming communication device may be limited to the set of allowed activities for the zone in which
    the device is located. As the gaming communication device travels from zone to zone, the location
    of the device may be re-determined, and the functionality of the device may be updated to reflect
    the set of allowed activities for the zone in which the device is now located.
 5            Various embodiments may also use the location determination to send location-specific
    information to the gaming communication device. For example, a reminder that an entertainment
    event to which the user has tickets is about to begin may be sent to the user's device if the device
    (and therefore the user) is located in a different part of the casino complex. In another embodiment,
    a user may be alerted that the user's favorite dealer is on the casino floor if the user is located in his
10  or her guest room.
              In various embodiments, the location of the gaming communication device may be used to
    deliver goods and services purchased or ordered by the user of the device. For example, in various
    embodiments, the user may purchase food and beverages using the device. The location of the
    device may then be used to deliver the food and beverages to the user, even if the user relocates to
15  another sub-zone after placing his or her order.
              The determination of the gaming communication device's location may also be used to
    provide the user with directions to another part of the casino complex. For example, a user that is
    located on the casino floor that wishes to go to a specific restaurant within the complex may be
    given direction based upon his or her location. These directions may then be updated as the user
20  progresses towards his or her desired location. In the event the user gets off-course, the location
    determination, which may be updated during the user's travel, may be used to alert the user that
    he/she has gotten off-course and then plot a new course to the desired destination.
              It should be understood that the foregoing descriptions encompass but some of the
    implementation technologies that may be used, according to various embodiments. Other
25  technologies may be used and are contemplated, according to various embodiments. Various
    embodiments may be performed using any suitable technology, either a technology currently
    existing or a technology which has yet to be developed.
    User Profiles
              According to various embodiments, the wireless gaming system can incorporate a user
30  profile element. One or more user profiles may be created, maintained, and modified, for example,
    on one or more of the servers of the gaming system. Generally, the user profiles include
    information relating to respective users. The information may be maintained in one or more
    databases. The information may be accessible to the gaming server and/or to one or more mobile
    devices. The devices which may access the information may, according to certain embodiments,
35  include gaming devices or gaming management devices. Gaming management devices may
    include wireless devices used by casino staff to provide gaming services or gaming management
    services.
                                                    25

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              Various embodiments include software and/or hardware to enable the provision,
    modification, and maintenance of one or more user profiles. Thus, one or more user profiles may
    each comprise a set of data maintained in a data storage device. The data set(s) for each respective
    user profile may reflect any of a number of parameters or pieces of information, which relate to the
 5  particular user(s) corresponding to the profile(s). Although not intended to be exhaustive, such
    information may include, for example, gaming activity preferences, such as preferred game and/or
    game configuration, preferred screen configuration, betting preferences, gaming location
    preferences, dining and other service preferences, and so forth. The information may also include
    user identity information, such as name, home address, hotel name and room number, telephone
10  numbers, social security numbers, user codes, and electronic files of fingerprint, voice, photograph,
    retina scan, or other biometric information. User profile information may also include information
    relating to the user, but not determined by the user or the user's activities. Such information may
    include any information associated with, or made part of, a profile. For example, an entity such as a
    casino, may include as part of a profile certain rules governing the distribution of promotions or
15  offers to the user. User profile information can include any codes, account numbers, credit
    information, approvals, interfaces, applications, or any other information which may be associated
    with a user. Thus, user profile information may include any information that is particular to a given
    user. For example, profile information may include the location(s) at which a particular user has
    played, skill levels, success levels, types of games played, and betting styles, and trends of
20  information relating to the user's activities.
              In various embodiments, user profile information may include concierge or other service
    information that is associated with a user. Concierge services may include restaurant services,
    entertainment services, hotel services, money management services, or other appropriate services
    that may be offered to the user of a gaming device. For example, restaurant services may include,
25  without limitation, services that allow the user to order drinks, order food, make reservations, or
    perform other restaurant related activities. As another example, entertainment services may
    include, without limitation, services that allow the user to purchase show tickets, arrange
    appointments or services, virtually shop, arrange transportation, or perform other entertainment
    related activities.   Hotel services may include, for example, services that allow the user to check
30  in, check out, make spa appointments, check messages, leave messages, review a hotel bill, or
    perform other guest-related activities. Money management services may include, for example,
    services that allow the user to transfer funds, pay bills, or perform other money management
    activities.
              The gaming system may be configured to establish a new profile for any user who is using
35  a gaming device for the first time. Alternatively, a new profile may be established for a prior user
    who has not played for a predetermined time period. The gaming system may set up the profile,
    monitor user activities, adjust the profile, and adjust information (such as graphics) displayed to the
    user. The gaming system may be configured to use the profile information to alter the presentation
    of gaming information to the user. For example, if a prior user has returned to the gaming system,
                                                    26

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    the system may consult the profile for the user and determine that in the prior session of gaming the
    user lost money on craps but won money on blackjack. Based on this information, the system may
    adjust the default gaming screen and present a blackjack table for the user. As a further example,
    the profile information may indicate that the majority of the user's prior blackjack time was spent
 5  on $25 minimum tables. The system may, accordingly, make a further adjustment to the gaming
    environment and make the blackjack table being presented a $25 table. In this sense, the gaming
    system enables personalized wireless gaming based on one or more criteria maintained in a user
    profile.
              The user profiles may be established, maintained, and periodically updated as necessary to
10  enable a gaming provider to provide an enhanced, current, and/or customized gaming experience.
    Updates may be undertaken based on any suitable trigger, such as the occurrence of an event, the
    occurrence of a user activity, or the passage of a certain predetermined time period. Any or all of
    the profile information may be updated.
15  Alerts
              In some embodiments, the gaming system may be configured to initiate one or more alerts
    to one or more users based on any number of criteria. For instance, an alert may be based on the
    location of a user. The system may also be configured to keep track of other non-location
    dependent parameters. The initiation of an alert may depend on a time parameter. Gaming alerts
20  can also be based on this and/or other information maintained in a user profile. Alerts can be
    prioritized for presentation and the content and display of the alerts may be customized by the user
    or another entity. As a related concept, the system may be configured to provide directions and/or
    maps. Another related concept involves enabling a user to view a certain activity or area remotely.
    The alert may be generated in response to the existence of data within a user profile. Additionally,
25  the content and presentation of the alert may be determined based on information in the user profile.
    Thus, when the alerts occur and what the alerts indicate may be customized or tailored according to
    user preferences (or any other information maintained about the user (e.g., in a user profile).
              In some embodiments, an alert may be presented or displayed to the user in a format
    determined, at least in part, by any of the parameters described or contemplated herein. For
30  example, if the user is located outdoors, the display may be automatically brightened in order to
    allow the user to more easily view the alert. The alert may be presented in any one or a
    combination of textual, visual, oral, or other information exchange formats. Alerts presented to
    users on the screen of a gaming communication device, for example, may be configured in any
    desirable manner. Preferably, the information is displayed in a way as to most effectively utilize
35  the screen real estate to convey the alert message. Thus, different alerts of differing types, or
    having differing priorities, can be displayed differently on the gaming device. For example, a more
    important alert can be displayed as a popup while secondary alerts scroll at the bottom of the
                                                    27

 WO 2008/101188                                                                         PCT/US2008/054128
    screen. The player can register for alerts and determine his own particular alert configuration
    preferences.
               According to some embodiments, directional information may be provided to one or more
    users. The directional information may be associated with an alert. The directional infonnation
 5  may be based on any of the parameters described herein (e.g., profiles, alerts, locations, changes in
    play or other activities, etc). Directions may be given to activities, locations, seats, tables,
    recreational spots, restaurants, change cages, information booths, casinos, hotels, sports venues,
    theaters, etc. For example directions may be given to a particular table or gaming area, a casino
    other than the one where the user is presently located or where another user is located, a restaurant
10  that is specified in a user profile, a sports book area of a casino, a hotel room, etc.
               The directions can be presented orally, textually, and/or graphically (e.g., as map with
    zoom capabilities). An example of how directions would be provided involves a user profile
    indicating that the user likes to play high-limit blackjack on Saturday nights, but that the user does
    not have a particular casino preference. If the user enters any casino for which the system is
15  operable, the system provides the user with an alert inviting the player to the high-limit blackjack
    tables and directional information in the form of a visual route. Another example involves a user
    leaving a sports book in a casino and the user has indicated that he wants to play craps. The device
    gives walking directions to the craps tables. Another example involves a user that has a preferred
    list of dinner restaurants. At a predetermined time (e.g., 8:00 pm), the system presents the user with
20  the list, lets the user make a selection and a reservation. The system then provides the user with
    verbal directions from the user's current location to the selected restaurant. The system may also be
    configured to provide ancillary information based, at least in part, on the alert, the profile, or the
    directional information being provided. For example, the system may notify a user that the user
    will need a cab, or will need to take the tram, or will need a jacket and tie, or will need an umbrella,
25  etc. depending on where the user is going and the route he is taking.
               According to various embodiments, the system enables a user to view a certain activity or
    area remotely. For example, cameras (or other viewing devices) may be disposed throughout a
    casino property (or other relevant area). At kiosks, or on the wireless gaming devices, users can
    "peek" into one or more selected areas to see the activity in the selected area(s). For example, from
30  the pool, a user can tell if the craps tables have changed limits or are filling up with people. From
    the craps table, a user can see if the restaurant or bar is becoming crowded.
               According to various embodiments, the operation of the alerts module and the alerts
    methods are integrated with various techniques for managing user profile information. An example
    of this aspect is that the system may be configured to recognize that a user has certain preferred
35  dealers or stickmen when playing certain casino games. When those dealers or stickmen are on
    duty, and if the user is located in a certain area, or within a certain distance, an alert may be sent
    inviting the user to participate in the gaming activity at the particular table where the dealer or
    stickman is on duty.
                                                     28

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
              Thus, when user profile information indicates that a one or more predetermined criteria are
    met, the system may send an alert to the corresponding user or to another user. For example, the
    system may "learn" that a player is a fan of certain sports teams. The system monitors information
    about upcoming events that involve those teams and, at a predetermined time, checks to see if the
 5  user has placed a bet on the event(s). If not, the system invites the user to visit a sports book to
    make a bet. As another example, the system knows a user prefers $10 minimum tables and alerts
    the user to the opening of a seat at such a table. As another example, the alerts can be triggered by
    information which is not directly related to or associated with the particular user (e.g., non-user
    specific information). For instance an alert might be triggered by a certain time or the occurrence
10  of a certain event (e.g., the odds given on a certain sports event changing by a certain predetermined
    amount).
    Service Applications
              According to various embodiments, gaming services may be provided as an application
15  add-on to a pre-existing communication or data service. Thus, gaming service applications may be
    made available to customers of a pre-existing communication or data service. For example,
    customers of a particular wireless telephone or data service may be offered any one or combination
    of the various gaming service applications discussed herein as an additional feature that is bundled
    with the telephone or data service. Although this document may refer to the communication
20  service bundled with offered gaming service applications as including pre-existing communication
    services, it is recognized that the gaming services applications may be offered and accepted as part
    of a package with newly-activated communications service plan. In still other embodiments, the
    gaming service may be established first and the communication service may be added later.
              The gaming service applications bundled with, or otherwise offered in conjunction with
25  communication services, may be customized to meet the needs of the customers, service providers,
    or both. For example, a service provider may elect to make certain gaming service applications
    available to only a subset of the service providers' customers. Accordingly, not all customers
    associated with a service provider may be offered gaming services. As an another example of
    customized gaming service applications, a communication service may offer customers a number of
30  gaming service plans which may provide different levels of service. For example, certain services
    such as advertisement services and/or promotional services may be free to customers of the
    communications service. Such levels of service may be customer-selected, service provider
    selected, or both.
              Customers may be billed separately for add-on gaming services, or in conjunction with the
35  invoice the customer already receives for the pre-existing communications service. For instance, in
    certain embodiments, gaming services may be billed as an add-on in the same way that Caller ID
                                                    29

 WO 2008/101188                                                                         PCT/US2008/054128
    services, call waiting services, and call messaging services result in fees that are in addition to the
    basic fees associated with communication services.
    Peer-to-Peer Wireless Gaming
 5             According to various embodiments, gaming services enable peer-to-peer wireless gaming.
    Specifically, the system may enable multiple players to participate in the same gaming activity at
    the same time from dispersed locations. This may be particularly desirable in the case of certain
    games such as, but without limitation, horse racing, poker, and blackjack. The system may also
    enable a single player to participate in multiple positions with respect to a particular game. For
10  example, a user may be permitted to play multiple hands of blackjack. Particular aspects include
    such features as providing assistance to a user in finding a particular activity. For example, a first
    player may want to play poker at a six-person table. The gaming system may be used to identify
    such a poker table that has a position available for the first user's participation. Additionally or
    alternatively, a first player might want to play poker at the same table as a second player, and the
15  system may be configured to assist the first player in finding a game in which the second player is
    already participating.
               Location determination techniques may be incorporated to enable peer-to-peer gaming or
    related services. For example, a "buddy network" may be established to track members of a
    selected group. For example, a group of friends might all be in a gambling jurisdiction but be
20  located at various dispersed places within that jurisdiction. The gaming system allows the
    establishment of a private buddy network of peers for this group of friends. The system enables one
    or more members of the group to track one or more other members of the group. In various
    embodiments, the system may also allow messages from and to one or more group members. For
    example, the system also allows members to invite other members to participate in certain wireless
25  gaming activities. Additionally or alternatively, the system may allow members of the group to bet
    on the performance of another member of the group who is participating in a virtual or actual game.
               Location determination techniques may also be incorporate to establish an "alert system."
    The alert system may be used to invite certain types of players to participate in a gaming activity.
    Criteria may then be used to identify users of gaming devices that meet the criteria. For example, a
30  gaming participant may wish to initiate a gaming activity with other users of gaming devices that
    qualify as "high rollers" or "high stakes garners." As other examples, a celebrity user may wish to
    initiate a gaming activity with other celebrities, or a senior citizen may wish to initiate a gaming
    activity with other senior citizens. In each instance, the user may identify criteria that may then be
    used to identify other gaming participants that meet these criteria for the initiation of a peer-to-peer
35  gaming event.
               It should be understood that the foregoing descriptions encompass but some of the
    implementation technologies that may be used, according to various embodiments. Other
                                                    30

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    technologies may be used and are contemplated, according to various embodiments. Various
    embodiments may be performed using any suitable technology, either a technology currently
    existing or a technology which has yet to be developed.
    Gaming and Wireless System
 5            Various embodiments include a gaming system including hand-held personal gaming
    devices. The gaming system is adapted to present one or more games to a user of one of the hand
    held gaming devices.
              In various embodiments, the gaming system includes a portable gaming device or
    interface. The portable gaming device has a display for displaying game information to a player, at
10  least one input device for receiving input from the player and is capable of receiving and sending
    information to a remote device/location. The gaming system also includes a game server for
    generating game data, transmitting game data to the portable gaming device and receiving
    information, such as player input, from the portable gaming device. The gaming system further
    includes a payment transaction server for validating payment and establishing entitlement of a
15  player to play a game via the portable gaming device as provided by the game server.
              In various embodiments, the gaming system includes one or more stationary gaming
    machines or other devices capable of printing tickets having a value associated therewith. The
    portable gaming device includes a ticket reader for reading ticket information for use by the
    payment transaction server in verifying the associated value for permitting the player to play the
20  game.
              In one or more embodiments, the portable gaming devices communicate with other
    devices (such as the game server) via a wireless communication channel. Appropriate relays and
    transceivers are provided for permitting the wireless communication.
              In one or more embodiments, the portable gaming device includes a plurality of interfaces
25  for changing the configuration of the gaming device or interacting with one or more transaction
    servers. In some embodiments, a login interface is provided for receiving login information
    regarding a user of the device. In various embodiments, the number of interfaces or other functions
    or features displayed or permitted to be accessed are configured depending upon the user of the
    device. In the event a gaming representative identifies himself, interfaces permitting access to a
30  variety of control functions may be provided. In the event a player identifies themselves, such
    control functions may not be accessible, but instead only consumer-related functions may be
    accessible such as game play.
              In one or more embodiments the gaming system includes one or more transaction servers,
    such as a food transaction server. Using an interface of the portable gaming device a player or other
35  user may request services from the food transaction server. For example, a player may request food,
    drink, a restaurant reservation or other service.
              One or more embodiments comprise a method of playing a game via a portable gaming
    device associated with a gaming network. In some embodiments, a player obtains a portable gaming
                                                   31

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    device, such as by checking out the device from the hostess station of a restaurant or the front desk
    of a hotel/casino. The player provides value to the gaming operator, such as a credit card or cash
    deposit. This value is associated with the server and matched with a ticket number, player tracking
    number or other identifier.
 5            The game device is configured for player play using the login interface. The act of logging
    in may be performed by the player or the gaming operator. The player next establishes entitlement
    to obtain services, such as the playing of a game, by showing the existence of value. In some
    embodiments, the player scans his ticket using the ticket reader of the device. The scanned
    information is transmitted to the payment transaction server for verifying entitlement of the player
10  to play a game or obtain other services. In the event the entitlement is verified, then the player is
    permitted to engage in the play of a game or request service.
              In the event a player wishes to play a game, the player indicates such by selecting a
    particular game using a game play interface. Upon receipt of such an instruction, the game server
    generates game data and transmits it to the personal gaming device. The transmitted data may
15  comprise sound and video data for use by the personal gaming device in presenting the game. The
    player is allowed to participate in the game by providing input to the game server through the
    personal gaming device. The game server determines if the outcome of the game is a winning or
    losing outcome. If the outcome is a winning outcome, an award may be given. This award may be
    cash value which is associated with the player's account at the payment transaction server. If the
20  outcome is a losing outcome, then a bet or wager placed by the player may be lost, and that amount
    deducted from the player's account at the transaction server.
              FIG. 8 is a block diagram of a gaming system in accordance with various embodiments.
              As illustrated, the gaming system B20 includes a plurality of gaming machines B22a,
    B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e, B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, B22j. In some embodiments, these gaming
25  machines B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e, B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, B22j are of the stationary type.
    In general, the gaming machines B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e, B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, B22j
    are arranged to present one or more games to a player. In various embodiments, the games are of
    the type requiring the placement of a wager or bet and are of the type by which a player receiving a
    winning outcome is provided an award, such as a monetary award. These devices may comprise for
30  example, video poker and slot machines. In addition, the gaming system B20 includes one or more
    hand-held, portable gaming devices (PGDs) B24. The PGD B24 is also arranged to present one or
    more games to a player, and as described below, may be used as an access point for a variety of
    other services. The device referred to herein as a "personal gaming device" may be referred to by
    other terminology, such as a portable gaming interface, personal game unit or the like, but
35  regardless of the name of the device, such may have one or more of the characteristics herein.
              In addition, in various embodiments, the PGD B24 is in communication with at least one
    gaming server B28. As described below, in various embodiments, the one or more games which are
    presented via the POD B24 to the player are provided by the gaming server B28.
                                                   32

 WO 2008/101188                                                                     PCT/US2008/054128
              The gaming machines B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e, B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, B22j and
    each PGD B24 is in communication with a payment system referred to herein as the "EZ-Pay"
    system. This system includes a server B26 for receiving and transmitting information. In general,
    the EZ Pay system is utilized to accept payment from a player for the playing of games and
 5  obtaining of other goods and services, and for paying a player winnings or awards.
              In the embodiments illustrated, the gaming system B20 includes other servers B30, B32
    for transmitting and/or receiving other information. In some embodiments, one server B30
    comprises a prize transaction server. Another server B32 comprises a food transaction server. In
    some embodiments, information may be transmitted between the PGD B24 and these servers B30,
10  B32.
              The EZ Pay system, according to various embodiments, will now be described in more
    detail with reference to FIG. 9. The EZ Pay system may constitute an award ticket system which
    allows award ticket vouchers to be dispensed in lieu of the traditional coin awards or
    reimbursements when a player wins a game or wishes to cash out. These tickets may also be used
15  by gaming machines and other devices for providing value, such as for payment of goods or
    services including as a bet or ante for playing a game.
              FIG. 9 illustrates some embodiments of such a system in block diagram form. As
    illustrated, a first group of gaming machines B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, and B22e is shown
    connected to a first clerk validation terminal (CVT) B34 and a second group of gaming machines
20  B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, and B22j is shown connected to a second CVT B36. All of the gaming
    machines print ticket vouchers which may be exchanged for cash or accepted as credit or indicia in
    other gaming machines. When the CVTs B34,B36 are not connected to one another, a ticket
    voucher printed from one gaming machine may only be used as indicia of credit in another gaming
    machine which is in a group of gaming machines connected to the same CVT. For example an
25  award ticket printed from gaming machine B22a might be used as credit of indicia in gaming
    machines B22b, B22c, B22d, and B22e, which are connected to the common CVT B34, but may
    not be used in gaming machines B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, and B22j since they are each connected
    to the CVT B36.
              The CVTs B34,B36 store ticket voucher information corresponding to the outstanding
30  ticket vouchers that are waiting for redemption. This information is used when the tickets are
    validated and cashed out. The CVTs B34,B36 store the information for the ticket vouchers printed
    by the gaming machines connected to the CVT. For example, CVT B34 stores ticket voucher
    information for ticket vouchers printed by gaming machines B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, and B22e.
    When a player wishes to cash out a ticket voucher and the CVTs B34,B36 are not connected to one
35  another, the player may redeem a voucher printed from a particular gaming machine at the CVT
    associated with the gaming machine. To cash out the ticket voucher, the ticket voucher is validated
    by comparing information obtained from the ticket with information stored with the CVT. After a
    ticket voucher has been cashed out, the CVT marks the ticket as paid in a database to prevent a
    ticket voucher with similar information from being cashed multiple times.
                                                   33

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
              Multiple groups of gaming machines connected to the CVTs B34,B36 may be connected
    together in a cross validation network B38. The cross validation network typically comprises one or
    more concentrators B40 which accept input from two or more CVTs and enables communications
    to and from the two or more CVTs using one communication line. The concentrator B40 is
 5  connected to a front end controller B42 which may poll the CVTs B34,B36 for ticket voucher
    information. The front end controller B42 is connected to an EZ pay server B26 which may provide
    a variety of information services for the award ticket system including accounting B44 and
    administration B46.
              The cross validation network allows ticket vouchers generated by any gaming machine
10  connected to the cross validation network to be accepted by other gaming machines in the cross
    validation network B3 8. Additional, the cross validation network allows a cashier at a cashier
    station B48, B50, B52 to validate any ticket voucher generated from a gaming machine within the
    cross validation network B3 8. To cash out a ticket voucher, a player may present a ticket voucher at
    one of the cashier stations B48, B50, B52. Information obtained from the ticket voucher is used to
15  validate the ticket by comparing information on the ticket with information stored on one of the
    CVTs B34,B36 connected to the cross validation network B3 8. As tickets are validated, this
    information may be sent to another computer B54 providing audit services.
              As described above, the gaming system B20 may also include one or more hand-held
    PGDs B24. In various embodiments, the PGD B24 is a portable device capable of transmitting and
20  receiving information via a wireless communication link/network.
              Referring again to FIG. 8, the gaming system B20 may include a printer B56, wireless
    communication relays B58 and B60, and wireless transceivers B62, B64, B66 and B68 connected to
    the remote transaction servers B26, B28, B30 and B32. In various embodiments, a player may
    obtain the PGD B24, and after being provided with the appropriate authority, may play one or more
25  games and/or obtain other services including food services or accommodation services.
              FIG. 10 illustrates the PGD B24 and a block diagram of a game and service system which
    may be implemented by the gaming system B20 illustrated in FIG. 8. In various embodiments, the
    game and service system B 100 is comprised of at least one PGD B24 and a number of input and
    output devices. The PGD B24 is generally comprised of a display screen B 102 which may display a
30  number of game service interfaces B 106. These game service interfaces B106 are generated on the
    display screen B102 by a microprocessor of some type (not shown) within the PGD B24. Examples
    of a hand-held PGD B24 which may accommodate the game service interfaces B 106 shown in FIG.
    10 are manufactured by Symbol Technologies, Incorporated of Holtsville, N.Y. The interface or
    menu data may be stored in a local memory, or the data may be transmitted to the PGD B24 from a
35  remote location (such as a data server). This reduces the memory requirement of the device.
              The game service interfaces B106 may be used to provide a variety of game service
    transactions and gaming operations services, including the presentation for play by a user of one or
    more games. The game service interfaces B106, including a login interface B105, an input/output
    interface B 108, a transaction reconciliation interface B 110, a ticket validation interface B 115, a
                                                    34

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    prize services interface B 120, a food services interface B 125, an accommodation services interface
    B130, a gaming operations interface B135, and a game play interface B137 may be accessed via a
    main menu with a number of sub-menus that allow a game service representative or player to access
    the different display screens relating to the particular interface.
 5            In one or more embodiments, some or all of the interfaces may be available to a user of the
    PGD B24. For example, in one or more embodiments, the PGD B24 may have a dual purpose of
    both being usable by a player to play games and engage in other activities, and also be used by
    gaming operations personnel for use in providing services to players and performing administrative
    functions. In various embodiments, certain PGDs B24 may be specially configured for use only by
10  players, and other PGDs B24 may be specially configured for use only by gaming or other
    personnel. In such event, the interfaces B 106 may be custom programmed.
              In one or more embodiments, only certain interfaces B 106 may be displayed, depending
    on the status of the user of the PGD B24. In some embodiments, the particular interfaces B106
    which are displayed and thus accessible for use are determined by the status of the user as indicated
15  through a login function. In various embodiment, when the PGD B24 is operable (such as when a
    power button is activated) the default status for the PGD B24 is the display of the login interface
    B 105. Once a user of the PGD B24 has logged in, then the status of the PGD display is changed.
              In one or more embodiments, the login interface B105 may allow a game service
    representative to enter a user identification of some type and verify the user identification with a
20  password. When the display screen B 102 is a touch screen, the user may enter the user/operator
    identification information on a display screen comprising the login interface B105 using an input
    stylus B103 and/or using one or more input buttons B 104. Using a menu on the display screen of
    the login interface, the user may select other display screens relating to the login and registration
    process. For example, another display screen obtained via a menu on a display screen in the login
25  interface may allow the PGD B24 to scan a finger print of the game service representative for
    identification purposes or scan the finger print of a game player.
              In the event a user identifies themselves as a gaming operator or representative, then the
    PGD B24 may be arranged to display one or more other interfaces such as those listed above and
    described in detail below. In one or more embodiments, the default status or login may be a
30  "player" mode login.
              In various embodiments, the login interface B105 may allow a player to identify
    themselves to configure the PGD B24 to permit the player to access a plurality of player services,
    such as playing games and the like. In various embodiments, the login interface B105 includes a
    request that the user identify themselves as a "player" or "authorized personnel." In the event
35  "authorized personnel" is selected, then the above-referenced user identification (including
    password) may be requested. If "player" is selected, then in various embodiments the player is
    requested to provide an EZ pay ticket. As described in more detail below, in various embodiments,
    a player who wishes to play one or more games or obtain other goods or services uses an EZ pay
    ticket to provide the credit or payment therefor. The ticket may be obtained from a cashier or by
                                                    35

 WO 2008/101188                                                                     PCT/US2008/054128
    play of another gaming device (such as devices B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e, B22f, B22g, B22h,
    B22i, B22j in FIG. 8). The ticket may be verified through the EZ pay system described above.
              In various embodiments, the PGD B24 includes a ticket reader B 145 and a card reader
    B 140. In some embodiments, the ticket reader B145 may be of a variety of types. In some
 5  embodiments, the reader comprises a bar-code reading optical scanner. In this arrangement, a user
    of the PGD B24 may simply pass the bar-coded ticket in front of the bar-code reader. In some
    embodiments, the card reader B 140 comprises a magnetic-stripe card type reader for reading
    information associated with a magnetic stripe of a card, such as a player tracking card.
              After having provided the appropriate authorization, access may be provided to the user of
10  the PGD B24 of one or more of the following interfaces B106.
              In one or more embodiments, an authorized user may be provided with access to the
    input/output interface B 108. In a various embodiments, such access is only provided to a game
    service operator and not a player. In one or more embodiments, the input/output interface B 108
    permits a user to select, from a list of devices stored in memory on the PGD B24, a device from
15  which the PGD may input game service transaction information or output game service transaction
    information. For example, the PGD B24 may communicate with the ticket reader B145. As another
    example, the PGD B24 may input information from the card reader B 140. Such input may be
    useful, for example, if a game service operator wishes to verify the authenticity of a player tracking
    card or the like.
20            The PGD B24 may output game and service transaction information to a number of
    devices. For example, to print a receipt, the PGD B24 may output information to a printer B 150. In
    this game service transaction, the PGD B24 may send a print request to the printer B150 and
    receive a print reply from the printer B 150. The printer B150 may be a large device at some fixed
    location or a portable device carried by the game service representative. As another example, the
25  output device may be the card reader B 140 that is able to store information on a magnetic card or
    smart card. Other devices which may accept input or output from the PGD B24 are personal digital
    assistants, microphones, keyboard, storage devices, gaming machines and remote transaction
    servers.
              The PGD B24 may communicate with the various input mechanisms and output
30  mechanisms using both wire and wire-less communication interfaces. For example, the PGD B24
    may be connected to the printer B150 by a wire connection of some type. However, the PGD B24
    may communicate with a remote transaction server B160 via a wire-less communication interface
    including a spread spectrum cellular network communication interface. An example of a spread
    spectrum cellular network communication interface is Spectrum 24 offered by Symbol
35  Technologies of Holtsville, N.Y., which operates between about 2.4 and 2.5 Gigahertz. The
    information communicated using the wire-less communication interfaces may be encrypted to
    provide security for certain game service transactions such as validating a ticket for a cash pay out.
    Some devices may accommodate multiple communication interfaces. Such a spread spectrum
    network is but one possible communication scheme.
                                                    36

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              Another type of interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is the award ticket validation
    interface B 115. In some embodiments, this interface is only available to an authorized game service
    representative, and not a player. Some embodiments of the award ticket interface B115 may
    accommodate the EZ pay ticket voucher system and validate EZ pay tickets as previously
 5  described. However, when other ticket voucher systems are utilized, the award ticket validation
    interface B 115 may be designed to interface with the other ticket voucher systems. Using the award
    ticket validation interface B 115, a game service representative may read information from a ticket
    presented to the game service representative by a game player using the ticket reader and then
    validate and pay out an award indicated on the ticket.
10            In various embodiments, the award ticket contains game service transaction information
    which may be verified against information stored on a remote transaction server B 160. To validate
    the ticket may require a number of game service transactions. For example, after obtaining game
    service transaction information from the award ticket, the PGD B24 may send a ticket validation
    request to the remote transaction server B 160 using the spread spectrum communication interface
15  and receive a ticket validation reply from the remote server B 160. In particular, the validation reply
    and the validation request may be for an EZ pay ticket. After the award ticket has been validated,
    the PGD B24 may send a confirmation of the transaction to the remote server B 160. Details of the
    game service transaction information validation process are described with the reference to FIG. 12.
    In various embodiments, the award ticket interface may be configured to validate award
20  information from a smart card or some other portable information device or validate award
    information directly from a gaming machine.
              As game and service transactions are completed, game and service transaction information
    may be stored on a storage device B155. The storage device B155 may be a remote storage device
    or a portable storage device. The storage device B155 may be used as a back-up for auditing
25  purposes when the memory on the PGD B24 fails and may be removable from the PGD B24.
              A type of game service interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is the prize service
    interface B 120. As an award on a gaming machine (i.e., machines B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e,
    B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, B22j in FIG. 8) or while playing a game via the PGD B24, a game player
    may receive a ticket (such as issued by other machine) that is redeemable for merchandise including
30  a bicycle, a computer or luggage or receive such an award directly (such as while playing the PGD
    B24 itself). Using the prize service interface B120, a game service representative or player may
    validate the prize service ticket and then check on the availability of certain prizes. For example,
    when the prize service ticket indicates the game player has won a bicycle, the game service
    representative may check whether the prize is available in a nearby prize distribution center.
35  Alternatively, a player may be permitted to do the same thing. In some embodiments, a player may
    be awarded a prize of a particular level, there being one or more particular prizes on that level. In
    such events, the player may use the interface B 120 to determine what prizes are currently available
    in the prize level just awarded. The PGD B24 may validate a prize ticket and check on the
    availability of certain prizes by communicating with a remote prize server. Further, the game
                                                   37

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    service representative may have the prize shipped to a game player's home or send a request to have
    the prize sent to a prize distribution location. The game service transactions needed to validate the
    prize ticket including a prize validation request and a prize validation reply, to check on the
    availability of prizes and to order or ship a prize may be implemented using various display screens
 5  located within the prize interface. The different prize screens in the prize service interface B120
    may be accessed using a menu located on each screen of the prize service interface. In some
    embodiments, the prize service interface B 120 may be configured to validate prize information
    from a smart card or some other portable information device or validate award information directly
    from a gaming machine.
10            A type of game service interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is the food service
    interface B 125. As an award on a gaming machine or as compensation for a particular amount of
    game play, a game player may receive a free food or drink. Using the food service interface B125,
    the player may redeem the food or drink award, or a game service representative may validate such
    an award (for example, the award may be provided to a player of a gaming device B22a in the form
15  of a ticket) and check on the availability of the award. For example, when the game player has
    received an award ticket valid for a free meal, the food service interface may be used to check on
    the availability of a dinner reservation and make a dinner reservation. As another example, the PGD
    B24 may be used to take a drink or food order by the player thereof. Such an order may be
    processed via the remote food server B32 (see also FIG. 8). The transactions needed to validate a
20  food ticket or award, to check on the availability of food services, request a food service and
    receive a reply to the food service request may be implemented using various display screens
    located within the food service interface B 125. These display screens may be accessed using a
    menu located on each screen of the food service interface. In some embodiments, the food service
    interface may be configured to validate food service information from a smart card or some other
25  portable information device.
              Another type of game service interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is an
    accommodation service interface B 130. As an award for game play or as compensation for a
    particular amount of game play, a game player may receive an award in the form of an
    accommodation service such as a room upgrade, a free night's stay or other accommodation prize.
30  Using the accommodation service interface B 130, the player may check on the availability of
    certain accommodation prizes. For example, when the game player has received an award for a
    room upgrade, the accommodation service interface may be used to check on the availability of a
    room and to make a room reservation. Regardless of whether the player has won an accommodation
    award, the player may utilize the accommodation service interface B130 to reserve a room (such as
35  an additional night's stay) or an upgrade to a room. In some embodiments, a player of a game may
    be issued a ticket (such as from a free-standing game device B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e, B22f,
    B22g, B22h, B22i, B22j in FIG. 8), and a gaming representative may use the accommodation
    service interface B 130 in order to validate the player's award ticket and check on the availability of
    the award and institute the award. As another example, the PGD B24 may be used to order a taxi or
                                                     38

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    some other form of transportation for a player at a gaming machine preparing to leave the game
    playing area. The game playing area may be a casino, a hotel, a restaurant, a bar or a store.
              The PGD B24 may validate the accommodation service award and check on the
    availability of certain accommodation awards by communicating with a remote accommodation
 5  server. The transactions needed to validate the accommodation ticket, check on the availability of
    accommodation services, request an accommodation service and receive a reply to the
    accommodation service request may be implemented using various display screens located within
    the accommodation service interface. These display screens may be accessed using a menu located
    on each screen of the accommodation service interface. In some embodiments, the accommodation
10  service interface may be configured to validate accommodation service information from a smart
    card or some other portable information device.
              A type of game service interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is a gaming
    operations service interface B 135. Using the gaming service interface B 135 on the PGD B24, a
    game service representative may perform a number of game service transactions relating to gaming
15  operations. For example, when a game player has spilled a drink in the game playing area, a game
    service representative may send a request to maintenance to have someone clean up the accident
    and receive a reply from maintenance regarding their request. The maintenance request and
    maintenance reply may be sent and received via display screens selected via a menu on the screens
    of the gaming operations service interface. As another example, when a game service representative
20  observes a damaged gaming machine such as a broken light, the game service representative may
    send a maintenance request for the gaming machine using the PGD B24. In one or more
    embodiments, a player may be permitted various options through the gaming service interface
    B 135. For example, a player may be permitted to request a gaming service representative or
    attendant using the interface B 135.
25            A type of game service interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is a transaction
    reconciliation interface B 110. In various embodiments, the PGD B24 contains a memory storing
    game service transaction information. The memory may record the type and time when a particular
    game service transaction is performed. At certain times, the records of the game service transactions
    stored within the PGD B24 may be compared with records stored at an alternate location. For
30  example, for an award ticket validation, each time an award ticket is validated and paid out, a
    confirmation is sent to a remote server B 160. Thus, information regarding the award tickets, which
    were validated and paid out using the PGD B24, should agree with the information regarding
    transactions by the PGD stored in the remote server B160. The transaction reconciliation process
    involves using the transaction reconciliation interface B 110 to compare this information. In various
35  embodiments, only a gaming service representative (and not a player) is permitted access to the
    transaction reconciliation interface B 110.
              A type of game service interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is a voice interface
    B138. Using the spread spectrum cellular or other communication network incorporated into the
    PGD, a player and/or game service representative may use the PGD B24 as a voice communication
                                                  39

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    device. This voice interface B 138 may be used to supplement some of the interfaces previously
    described. For example, when a game player spills a drink the game service representative may
    send maintenance request and receive a maintenance reply using the voice interface B 138 on the
    PGD B24. As another example, when a game player requests to validate a food service such as free
 5  meal, such a request may be made by the player or a game service representative at a restaurant or
    other location using the voice interface B138 on the PGD B24. In some embodiments, a player may
    be permitted to contact a player of another PGD B24, such as by inputting a code number assigned
    to the PGD B24 through which communication is desired. Such would permit, for example, a
    husband and wife using two different PGDs B24 to communicate with one another. The voice
10  interface B 138 may also permit a player to contact the front desk of a hotel/casino, an operator of a
    switchboard at the gaming location or the like.
              A type of game service interface that may be stored on the PGD B24 is a game play
    interface B 137. In various embodiments, a player is permitted to access the game play interface
    B137 in order to select from one or more games for play. The game play interface B137 may
15  include a menu listing one or more games which the player may play via the PGD B24. In various
    embodiments, game play is facilitated with the game server B28 (see FIG. 8).
              In one or more embodiments, the gaming control code is not resident at the PGD B24, but
    instead at a secure, remote server. Referring to FIG. 8, game play data is transmitted from the game
    server B28 to the PGD B24, and from the PGD B24 to the game server B28. Preferably, the PGD
20  B24 is adapted to receive and process data, such as by receiving video data and processing the data
    to present the information on the display B 102. Likewise, the PGD B24 is arranged to accept input
    and transmit that input or instruction to the game server B28. This arrangement has the benefit that
    nearly all aspects of the play of a game can be monitored, as it requires the game play data to pass
    to or from a remote location. This avoids, for example, storage of the gaming software at the PGD
25  B24 where it might be tampered with, copied or the like.
              In one or more embodiments, each PGD B24 has a unique identifier which is utilized to
    identify which PGD B24 data is transmitted from and to which data is to be transmitted to. In some
    embodiments, the game server B28 may thus be used to present the same or different games to a
    plurality of players using different PGDs B24, with the game data regarding a particular game being
30  played at a particular PGD B24 being directed to that PGD B24 using its particular identifier.
              As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art, the PGD B24 may have a variety of
    configurations. As stated above, the PGD B24 may be used in the gaming system B20 in which
    gaming code is not stored directly at the PGD. In such an embodiment, the PGD B24 may have a
    much more limited amount of data memory. In some embodiments, the PGD B24 includes a
35  processor for executing control code, such as that necessary to operate the display B102, accept
    input from the stylus B103 or input buttons B104 or the like. In addition, the PGD B24 preferably
    includes a buffer memory for accepting data transmitted from the game server B28. This data may
    comprise data for displaying game information, such as video and sound content.
                                                   40

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              Various aspects of the use of the PGD B24 described above will now be described. In one
    or more embodiments, the PGD B24 may be used directly by a player. In various embodiments, a
    player may use the PGD B24 to play one or more games, and obtain products and services, such as
    food.
 5            A method of use of the PGD B24, according to some embodiments, is illustrated in FIGS.
    11(a) and 11(b). In general, a player must first obtain a PGD B24. For example, a player may check
    out a PGD B24 from a gaming operator. The player then establishes entitlement to use the PGD
    B24. In some embodiments, the player must indicate player status at the login interface, and obtain
    a valid ticket in order to activate the PGD B24. Once activated, the player is permitted to engage in
10  a variety of transactions using the interfaces B 106, such as playing a game, redeeming prizes and
    awards, placing food and drink orders, placing reservations, seeking gaming operator support and
    seeking a variety of other goods and services as described in more detail below.
              One example of a method of use of the PGD B24 by a player will be described with
    reference to FIG. 11(a). In a first step B400, the player first obtains the PGD B24. In some
15  embodiments, a gaming operator may have certain locations at which a player may obtain the PGD
    B24, such as the front desk of a hotel/casino, the hostess stand at a restaurant, from a gaming
    attendant or other location as desired. In some embodiments, a gaming operator may actually permit
    a player to retain the PGD B24, such as by renting, selling or giving the PGD B24 away to a player.
              In a step B402, the PGD B24 is activated. In some embodiments, this step includes turning
20  on the PGD B24 (such as with a power switch) and logging in. In some embodiments, when the
    PGD B24 is turned on, the login interface B 105 is automatically displayed. The login interface
    B 105 may include "player" and "authorized personnel" buttons which may be activated using the
    stylus B 103. The player may indicate "player" status by selecting the player button with the stylus
    B103.
25            In some embodiments, the gaming operator may log the player in. For example, when a
    player obtains the PGD B24 from a hostess at a restaurant, the hostess may log in the player in
    player mode. In some embodiments, the gaming operator may have certain PGDs B24 which are for
    use by players and certain others which are for use by gaming personnel. In such event, the PGDs
    B24 which are configured for player status may automatically be configured for player mode after
30  being turned on.
              In a step B404, a player establishes entitlement to use the PGD B24. In some
    embodiments, this step comprises the player providing a valid ticket which is verifiable using the
    EZ pay portion of the gaming system B20. In some embodiments, a player may have obtained a
    ticket through play of a gaming machine, such as gaming machines B22a, B22b, B22c, B22d, B22e,
35  B22f, B22g, B22h, B22i, B22j of the gaming system B20. In some embodiments, a player may be
    issued a ticket by a game service representative. For example, a player may provide credit at a
    cashier cage (such as with a credit card or cash) and be issued a ticket. A player may also pay cash
    or the like to a restaurant hostess and be issued a ticket.
                                                    41

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
              Once the player has a ticket, the ticket may be scanned using the ticket reader B145 of the
    PGD B24. For example, the player may pass the ticket in front of the ticket reader B145. Once the
    information is read by the PGD B24, the data may be transmitted to the EZ pay server B26 for
    validation. Preferably, this validation confines that the particular ticket is authorized, including the
 5  fact that it is outstanding and has value associated therewith.
              In one or more embodiments, entitlement may be established in other manners. For
    example, in some embodiments, entitlement may be established with a player tracking or
    identification card which may be read using the card reader B140 of the PGD B24.
              Establishing entitlement to use the PGD B24 may ensure that the player has funds for
10  paying to obtain services and products available by use of the PGD B24. In one or more
    embodiments, however, this step may be eliminated. For example, in some embodiments, a player
    may be permitted to use the PGD B24 and then pay for goods or services in other manners. In some
    embodiments, a player may, for example, order food and then pay the server for the food using a
    room charge or cash at the time the food is delivered. In some embodiments, a player may use a
15  credit card to pay to play games or to pay for food or the like. In such event, a credit card may be
    read by the card reader B 140 at the time the services or products are to be provided or are ordered
    by the player.
              In a step B406, the player is then permitted to select one or more selections from the
    interfaces B 106. As stated above, a player may not be permitted access to all of the interfaces B 106.
20  In any event, a player may select, such as with the stylus B 103, a service from the group of
    interfaces B 106. An example of the engagement of a particular activity using the PGD B24 will be
    described below with reference to FIG. 11(b).
              Once a player no longer desires to engage in any more activities using the PGD B24, the
    use session of the PGD B24 is ended in a step B408, and in one or more embodiments, the PGD
25  B24 is returned to the gaming operator. In various embodiments, once a player no longer wishes to
    use the PGD B24, the player returns the PGD B24 to the gaming operator. At that time, the gaming
    operator may confirm that all transactions using the PGD B24 are closed or complete, and pay the
    player any winnings. In some embodiments, a player B24 is issued a new ticket representing the
    player's credit (including any payments made in order to first use the PGD B24, plus any winnings,
30  less any expenditures).
              An example of a method of using the PGD B24 wherein the player has selected the option
    of game play using the game play interface B137 will be described in detail with reference to FIG.
    11(b). In a step B410 (which step comprises a particular embodiment of step B406 of FIG. 11(a)), a
    player has selected the event or service of "game play" using the game play interface B 137.
35            In some embodiments, when a player has selected the game play interface B 137, a menu
    may be displayed to the player of the one or more games which the player may be permitted to play.
    In some embodiments, when the player selects the game play interface B 137, a signal is transmitted
    from the PGD B24 to the remote game server B28 instructing the game server B28 that the player
    wishes to play a game. In response, the game server B28 may send the latest game menu to the
                                                    42

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    PGD B24 for display. In this arrangement, the menu of games which is available may be
    continuously updated at one or more central locations (such as the server B28) instead of at each
    PGD B24.
              If the system B20 permits the player to select a game from a menu of games, then the
 5  method includes the step of the player selecting a particular game to be played. Once a game is
    selected, or if only a single game option is provided, then game play begins. In some embodiments,
    the game server B28 transmits data to the PGD B24 for use by the PGD B24 in presenting the
    game, such as video and audio content.
              In some embodiments, in a step B412 a player is required to place a bet or ante to
10  participate in a game. In some embodiments, the player may place the bet or ante using the EZ pay
    system. As stated above, the player preferably establishes entitlement to use the PGD B24 with an
    EZ pay ticket or other entitlement, which ticket demonstrates that the player has monies or credits
    on account which may be used to pay for goods and services. These services include game play
    services.
15            In some embodiments, when the player establishes entitlement to use the PGD B24, the
    value of the player's credits or monies are displayed to the player so that the player is visually
    reminded of these amounts. When a player begins play of a game, the player may input a bet and
    ante which is no more than the value of the credits or monies which the player has on account. Once
    a player has placed a bet or ante, that information is transmitted to the EZ pay server B26 and is
20  deducted from the player's account. A new credit value is then displayed at the PGD B24 to the
    player.
              In various embodiments, a player may provide credit for a bet or ante in other manners.
    For example, a player may swipe a credit card through the card reader B 140 in order to provide the
    necessary credit for the bet or ante.
25            In a step B414, the player is then permitted to engage in the game. In some embodiments,
    game play comprises the game server B28 executing game code and transmitting information to the
    PGD B24 for presenting certain aspects of the game to the player. When necessary, the player is
    permitted to provide input, and the input data is transmitted from the PGD B24 to the game server
    B28.
30            As one example of a game, the game may comprise video poker. In this embodiment, the
    game server B28 executes code for randomly generating or selecting five cards. Data representing
    video images of the cards is transmitted to the PGD B24, where the images of the five dealt cards
    are displayed on the display screen B 102.
              The instruction "draw" or "stay" may be displayed to the player. At that time, the player
35  may select one or more of the cards to hold or replace. In the event the player elects to replace any
    card, that instruction is transmitted to the game server B28 which then randomly generates or
    selects replacement cards. The replacement card data is transmitted to the PGD B24 and images of
    the replacement cards are displayed.
                                                    43

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
              In the event the hand of five cards (including any replacement cards) is determined by the
    game server B28 to comprise a predetermined winning hand, then the player may be paid a winning
    amount. If not, then the player loses his bet or ante. This step comprises step B416 of the method,
    that of determining the outcome of the game.
 5            If the outcome is a winning outcome, then the player may be paid a winning by crediting
    the player's account through the EZ pay server B26. In that event, the player's credits value as
    displayed is updated to reflect the player's winnings.
              A player may then elect to play the game again, play a different game, or select one or
    more other services offered. In some embodiments, a "return to main menu" button or the like may
10  be displayed to the player at all times, permitting the player to return to a display including the
    various interfaces B106.
              In some embodiments, when the player has completed use of the PGD B24, the player
    returns the PGD B24 to the gaming operator. For example, the player may return the PGD B24 to a
    cashier cage or a game service operator. In various embodiments, the game service operator or
15  other party then issues the player a ticket for any credit or value which remains in the player's
    account. The PGD B24 may then be deactivated so that it readied for use by another player. In some
    embodiments, the PGD B24 may be deactivated by turning its power off. In some embodiments, a
    "logout" interface or option may be provided which causes the PGD B24 to return to a default state
    seeking the login of a player or user.
20            The PGD B24 may be used by a game service operator. Several examples of a method of
    such use are detailed below in conjunction with FIGS. 8 and 9.
              When a game service representative contacts a game player seeking a game service in the
    game playing area B70 (see FIG. 8), the game service representative uses an appropriate game
    service interface on the display screen of the PGD B24, as described with reference to FIG. 10, to
25  provide the game service requested by the game player. For example, when a game player requests
    an EZ pay ticket validation, the game service representative brings the EZ pay ticket validation
    interface onto the display screen of the PGD B24 using menus available on the display screen
    B 102. Then, the game service representative scans the EZ pay ticket using a ticket reader connected
    to the PGD B24 to obtain unique ticket information. Next, the PGD B24 sends an EZ pay ticket
30  validation request using the wire-less communication interface to the EZ pay server B26.
              In various embodiments, the ticket validation request is composed of one or more
    information packets compatible with the wire-less communication standard being employed. Using
    a wireless link B72, the one or more information packets containing the ticket validation request are
    sent to the transceiver B62 connected to the EZ pay server. The transceiver B62 is designed to
35  receive and send messages from the one or more PGDs B24 in the game playing area B70 in a
    communication format used by the PGDs. Depending on the location of the PGD B24 in the game
    playing area B70, the communication path for the information packets to and from the PGD B24
    may be through one or more wire-less communication relays including B58 and B60. For example,
    when the PGD B24 is located near gaming machine B22a, the communication path for a message
                                                    44

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    from the PGD B24 to the EZ pay server B26 may be from the PGD B24 to the relay B60, from the
    relay B60 to the relay B58, from the relay B58 to the transceiver B62 and from the transceiver B62
    to the EZ pay server B26. As the location of the PGD B24 changes in the game playing area B70,
    the communication path between the PGD B24 and the EZ pay server B26 may change.
 5            After receiving an EZ pay ticket validation reply from the EZ pay server B26, the EZ pay
    ticket may be validated using an appropriate display screen on the PGD B24. After cashing out the
    ticket, the game service representative may send a confirmation of the transaction to the EZ pay
    server B26 using the PGD B24. The transaction history for the PGD B24 may be stored on the PGD
    B24 as well as the EZ pay server B26. Next, a receipt for the transaction may be printed out. The
10  receipt may be generated from a portable printer carried by the game server representative ad
    connected to the PGD B24 in some manner or the receipt may be generated from a printer B56 at a
    fixed location.
              After providing a number of game services comprising a number of game service
    transactions to different game players in the game playing area B70 using the PGD B24, a game
15  service representative may log-off of the PGD B24 and return it to location for secure storage. For
    example, at the end of a shift, the game service representative may check the PGD B24 at some of
    the locations, the device is unassigned to the particular game service representative and then may be
    assigned to another game service representative. However, before the PGD B24 is assigned to
    another game service representative, the transaction history stored on the PGD B24 may be
20  reconciled with a separate transaction history stored on a transaction server such as the EZ pay
    server B26.
              The assigning and unassigning of the PGD B24 to a game service representative and the
    transaction reconciliation are performed for security and auditing purposes. Another security
    measure which may be used on the PGD B24 is a fixed connection time between the PGD B24 and
25  a transaction server. For example, after the PGD B24 has been assigned to a game service
    representative and the game service representative has logged on the PGD B24, the PGD B24 may
    establish a connection with one or more transaction servers including the EZ pay server B26, a
    server B28, a server B30, or a server B32. The connection between a transaction server and the
    PGD B24 allows the PGD B24 to send information to the transaction server and receive
30  information from the transaction server. The length of this connection may be fixed such that after a
    certain amount of time the connection between the PGD B24 and the transaction server is
    automatically terminated. To reconnect to the transaction server, the login and registration process
    must be repeated on the PGD B24.
              A transaction server may provide one or more game service transactions. However, the
35  PGD B24 may connect with multiple transaction servers to obtain different game service
    transactions. For example, server B30 may be a prize transaction server allowing prize service
    transactions and server B415 may be a food transaction server allowing food service transactions.
    When a game service representative receives a prize service request from a game player, the PGD
    B24 may be used to contact the prize transaction server B30 using a wire-less communication link
                                                   45

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    between the PGD B24 and a transceiver B64 connected to the prize transaction server B30.
    Similarly, when a game service representative receives a food service request from a game player,
    the PGD B24 may be used to contact the food transaction server B32 using a wire-less
    communication link between the PGD B24 and a transceiver B66 connected to the food transaction
 5  server B32.
              The different transaction servers including the servers B26, B28, B30, B32 may be on
    separate networks or linked in some manner. For example, server B32 is connected to network B74,
    server B26 is connected to network B38, server B30 is connected to network B76, and server B28 is
    connected to network B78. In this embodiment, a network link B80 exists between network B76
10  and network B38. Thus, server B26 may communicate with server B30 via the network link B80. A
    communication link between different servers may allow the servers to share game service
    transaction information and allow different communication paths between the PGDs and the
    transaction servers. Likewise, a network link B82 exists between network B78 and network B38,
    permitting the game server to communicate with the EZ pay server B26.
15            FIG. 12 is a flow chart depicting a method for providing a game service using a hand-held
    device. In step B500, a game service representative receives the PGD B24 and logs in to the device
    to assign the device. The check out process and assign process are for security and auditing
    purposes. In a step B505, the game service representative contacts a game player in the game
    playing area requesting a game service of some type. In a step B5 10, the game service
20  representative selects an appropriate interface on the PGD B24 using menus on the display screen
    B 102 of the PGD that allow the game service representative to provide a requested game service. In
    a step B515, the game service representative inputs game service transaction information required
    to perform a game service transaction. For example, to validate an award ticket, the game service
    representative may read information from the ticket using a ticket reader. As another example, to
25  provide a food service including dinner reservation, the game service representative may enter a
    game player's name to make the reservation.
              In a step B520, the transaction information obtained in step B515 is validated as required.
    For example, when a player attempts to cash out an award ticket, the information from the award is
    validated to ensure the ticket is both genuine (e.g. the ticket may be counterfeit) and has not already
30  been validated. The validation process requires a number of transfers of information packets
    between the PGD B24 and the transaction server. The details of the validation process for an award
    ticket validation are described with reference to FIG. 13. When the transaction information is valid,
    in a step B522, a game service transaction is provided. For example, a room reservation may be
    made for a player requesting an accommodation service. A confirmation of the game service
35  transaction may be sent to the transaction server for transaction reconciliation in a step B545. In one
    or more embodiments, the method may include the step of generating a receipt regarding the game
    service transaction.
              In a step B535, after providing the service, a game player may request another game
    service. When a game player requests an additional game service, the game service representative
                                                   46

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    returns to step B5 10 and selects an appropriate interface for the game service. When a game player
    does not request an additional service and it is not the end of a shift, in a step B530, the game
    service representative returns to step B505 and contacts a new game player. In a step B540, when a
    shift has ended, the game service representative logs out of the PGD B24 and checks the device at a
 5  secure location so that the PGD may be assigned to a different game service representative. In step
    B545, before the PGD B24 is assigned to a different game service representative, a transaction
    history reconciliation is performed to ensure that the transaction history stored on the PGD is
    consistent with the transactions previously confirmed with a transaction server during the game
    service representative's shift. The transaction history on the PGD B24 may be stored on a
10  removable memory storage device on the PGD. Thus, the memory may be removed from the device
    for transaction reconciliation and replaced with a new memory. Thus, the device with the new
    memory may be assigned to a new game service representative while the transaction history from
    the previous game service representative assigned to the device is reconciled.
              FIG. 13 is a flow chart depicting a method for validating information for providing a
15  personal game service. In the embodiment shown in the figure, a ticket is validated in a manner
    consistent with an EZ pay ticket system. The EZ pay ticket is usually used for award tickets.
    However, the system may be adapted to provide tickets for other services include food services,
    prize services or accommodation services. In a step B600, a request for game service transaction
    information read from a ticket is sent via a wire-less communication interface on the PGD B24 to
20  the appropriate transaction server as described with reference to FIG. 8. In a step B605, the server
    identifies which clerk validation ticket (CVT) B34,B36 owns the ticket. When a CVT owns a ticket,
    the CVT has stored information regarding the status of a particular ticket issued from a gaming
    machine connected to the CVT B34,B36. In a step B610, the server sends a request to pay the ticket
    to the CVT identified as the owner of the ticket. Typically, the pay request indicated a service on
25  the ticket has been requested. For a cash ticket, a pay request means a request to cash out the ticket
    has been made. For a free meal, a pay request means a request to obtain the meal has been made. In
    a step B615, the CVT receives the pay request for the ticket and marks the ticket pending. While the
    ticket is pending, any attempts to validate a ticket with similar information is blocked by the CVT.
              In a step B620, the CVT B34,B36 sends back a reply with context information to the
30  server. As an example, the context information may be the time and place when the ticket was
    issued. The information from the CVT to the server may be sent as one or more data packets
    according to a communication standard shared by the CVT and server. In a step B625, after
    receiving the validation reply from the CVT, the server marks the pay request pending and sends a
    pay order to the PGD B24. While the pay request is pending, the server will not allow another ticket
35  with the same information as the ticket with the pay request pending to be validated.
              In a step B630, the game service representative may choose to accept or reject the pay
    order form the server. When the game service representative accepts the pay order from the server,
    in a step B640, the PUD B24 sends a reply to the transaction server confirming that the transaction
    has been performed. The transaction server marks the request paid which prevents another ticket
                                                    47

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    with identical information from being validated. In a step B645, the server sends a confirmation to
    the CVT which allows the CVT to mark the request from pending to paid. When the game service
    representative rejects the pay order from the server, in a step B650, the PGD B24 sends a reply to
    the server to mark the pay request from pending to unpaid. When the ticket is marked unpaid, it
 5  may be validated by another PGD B24 or other validation device. In a step B655, the server sends
    the reply to the CVT to mark the pay request from pending to unpaid which allows the ticket to be
    validated.
              In one or more embodiments of the invention, a ticket may be used to provide credit/value
    for establishing entitlement to a service or a good, such as the right to play a game or obtain food.
10  The PGD B24 may include a card reader B 140. In such an arrangement, a user of the PGD B24
    may use a credit card or other magnetic stripe type card for providing credit/value. In various
    embodiments, the PGD B24 may include one or more other types of devices for obtaining/receiving
    information, such as a smart card reader. In such arrangements, the PGD B24 device may read
    information from the credit card, smart card or other device. These cards may comprise the well
15  known credit or debit cards. This information may be used to provide the credit/value. In the
    example of a credit card, the user's account information may be read from the card and transmitted
    from the PGD B24 to the controller B42. Credit card/credit validation information may be
    associated with a credit card server (not shown). This credit card server may be associated with a
    bank or other entity remote from the casino or place of use of the PGD B24 and the controller B42.
20  A communication link may be provided between the controller B42 and remote server for sending
    credit card information there over.
              In some embodiments, when a player utilizes a smart card or credit card the amount of
    associated credit or value may be transmitted to the EZ Pay server B26, and then the credited
    amount may be treated in exactly the same manner as if the credit/value had been provided by a
25  ticket. When a player wishes to cash out, the EZ Pay server B26 has a record of the original amount
    credited and the amounts of any awards, losses or payments, and may then issue the player a ticket
    representing the user's total credit.
              In accordance with the invention, a gaming system is provided which includes one or more
    portable gaming devices. The portable gaming devices permit a player to play one or more games at
30  a variety of locations, such as a hotel room, restaurant or other location. These locations may be
    remote from traditional gaming areas where free-standing, generally stationary gaming machines
    are located.
              In one or more embodiments, a player may use the portable gaming device to not only play
    games, but obtain other products and services. In addition, in one or more embodiments, the
35  portable gaming device may be used by game service representatives to perform a variety of
    functions and provide a variety of services to a player.
              It should be understood that the foregoing descriptions encompass but some of the
    implementation technologies that may be used, according to various embodiments. Other
    technologies may be used and are contemplated, according to various embodiments. Various
                                                    48

 WO 2008/101188                                                                         PCT/US2008/054128
    embodiments may be performed using any suitable technology, either a technology currently
    existing or a technology which has yet to be developed.
    Wireless Interactive System
 5            According to various embodiments, a wireless interactive gaming system includes one or
    more wireless gaming devices, a receiver, and a central processor. The wireless interactive gaming
    system may also include a terminal which is in communication with the central processor.
              In a gaming environment that employs a wireless interactive gaming system, a player
    receives a wireless gaming device from a game official who represents a gaming establishment or
10  the "house". The wireless gaming device is capable of receiving wager information as commands
    entered by the player and transmitting the received wager information along with identification
    information to the receiver by wireless transmission.
              The wireless interactive gaming system may support a number of wireless gaming devices
    within one gaming establishment. The range for the wireless transmission from a wireless gaming
15  device may be up to 100 feet.
              According to various embodiments, a player inputs information into a wireless gaming
    device, e.g., by pressing push buttons or keys on the device. The wireless gaming device may
    include any number, e.g. from 5 to 20, of buttons in a keypad-type arrangement. Buttons may be
    marked with the digits 0 through 9 and may also include a "$" (dollar sign) key and an "enter" key,
20  so that the player may easily input wager information. In various embodiments, the wireless gaming
    device includes at least eight player selection buttons (e.g., digits) and at least five special function
    buttons, (e.g., to request the player's balance). In various embodiments, the player can input some or
    all of the wager information into the wireless gaming device by swiping a smart card, which
    contains a microprocessor chip or a magnetic stripe with encoded information, through a smart card
25  reader on the wireless gaming device.
              In various embodiments, the wireless gaming device may include an identifier. The
    identifier may be, e.g., a series of alphanumeric characters, a bar code, or a magnetic stripe affixed
    to the device. In various embodiments, the identifier may be a digital code stored in a secure
    memory, e.g., an electronically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM). The
30  identifier may thus be readable directly by the game official if it is a series of alphanumeric
    characters, or it may be read automatically by a bar code reader or a magnetic stripe reader. In
    various embodiments, the identifier may be programmed in EEPROM or read from EEPROM
    through an RS-232 port, which may be directly connected to encoder and decoder circuitry in a
    terminal.
35            A wireless gaming device may store an encryption key. The encryption key may be used
    to encrypt information that is transmitted to the receiver from the device. Encryption of the
    information transmitted to the receiver may limits tampering with the wireless gaming device and
    may prevent unauthorized or counterfeit devices from being used with the system.
                                                    49

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              In various embodiments, the encryption key may be stored in the EEPROM. The
    EEPROM may have the advantage of being a memory device which is difficult to access if the
    appropriate encoding circuitry is not available. Thus, it is contemplated that the encoding circuitry
    that downloads the encryption key into the device may be securely held by the game official.
 5            Alternately, the encryption key stored in the EEPROM may be updated and changed for
    each player who receives a wireless gaming device by directly connecting the device to encoding
    and decoding circuitry in the terminal through a port at the time the wireless gaming device is
    delivered to the player. Moreover, other digital information related to the game being played may
    be downloaded from the terminal to the EEPROM through a direct connection with the wireless
10  gaming device.
              In various embodiments, a microprocessor controls the operation of a wireless gaming
    device. The microprocessor receives digital wager information entered by the player using buttons
    or keys of the wireless gaming device. The microprocessor stores an identification code associated
    with the wireless gaming device that is a digital equivalent of the identifier of the wireless gaming
15  device. The microprocessor also executes software applications for encrypting the identification
    code and the player's wager information for transmission to the receiver. The software contains an
    algorithm that encrypts a data packet including the identification code and wager information using
    the encryption key.
              In various embodiments, a wireless gaming device has a unique address, i.e. identification
20  code, for communications with the receiver and stores a player identification that is programmed
    into the device by the central processor. The wireless gaming device may include a wager amount
    register, which is maintained and updated using the keys on the device. The value stored in the
    wager amount register may be included in transmissions from the device to the central processor.
    The value of the wager amount register may default to a predetermined value, e.g. $1, when the
25  device is initialized, and can be further adjusted by the player. The wireless gaming device may
    also include an account balance register, which is maintained in the device and is updated by the
    central processor periodically. The value of the account balance register should default to $0 when
    the device is initialized.
              The wireless gaming device may include player function keys. The player function keys
30  may be used to accomplish the following functions:
    1. Transmit a message to the receiver;
    2. Request account balance information;
35
    3. Adjust the state of the device;
    4. Affect the data to be sent in the next transmitted message;
                                                    50

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    5. Increment the wager amount register by a predetermined amount, e.g., $10, $5 or $1;
    6. Reset the wager amount register to the default value, e.g., $1.
 5            The firmware of the wireless gaming device may only allow for one press of buttons or
    keys every 100 ms. In various embodiments, key presses are not queued; thus, when a key press
    message is queued to be sent, no other player input is accepted until the queued message has been
    sent.
              The wireless gaming device may include a transmitter. The transmitter may receive
10  encrypted digital information from the microprocessor and convert it to a signal for wireless
    transmission to the receiver. The transmitter transmits signals wirelessly, e.g., using radio frequency
    signals or infrared signals. Communications between the receiver and the wireless gaming device
    may be asynchronous at 2400 bits per second.
              The wireless gaming device may include an identifying circuit that drives the transmitter
15  to periodically send an identification signal to the receiver. The use of the identifying circuit
    permits the receiver and the central processor to be assured that the wireless gaming device is still
    active, functioning and present in the gaming establishment. Thus, if the wireless gaming device
    were removed from the gaming establishment, the receiver and central processor would no longer
    receive and detect the periodic identification signal sent by the identifying circuit and the
20  transmitter, and the game official may be alerted that the wireless gaming device has been removed
    from the gaming establishment.
              The wireless gaming device may contain a real-time clock that permits the microprocessor
    to monitor the current time and date. The clock may consist of a timing circuit. The microprocessor
    can use the time and date information obtained from clock to perform calculations and other
25  functions based on the current time and date.
              The wireless gaming device may also include a tag, such as an electronic or magnetic
    component, which activates an alarm when passed through a sensing apparatus located at the
    entrance and/or exit of the gaming establishment. Activation of the alarm by passing the wireless
    gaming device with the tag through the sensing apparatus notifies the game official of an attempted
30  removal of the wireless gaming device from the gaming establishment.
              The wireless gaming device may be powered by a battery source contained within the
    device. A portable power source such as battery source permits extended cordless operation of the
    wireless gaming device throughout a gaming environment. The battery source may be part of a
    removable, rechargeable battery pack that allows the device to be recharged when it is not in use.
35            In some embodiments, the wireless gaming device displays information such as game
    information on a device display, such as a liquid crystal display (LCD) with a back-light. The LCD
    can be used to display the values stored in the wager amount register and in the account balance
    register. The wireless gaming device may include a display receiver which receives digital
    information transmitted from the receiver or from the central processor.
                                                    51

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
              The device may also include a bicolor light emitting diode (LED). The bicolor LED is
    capable of displaying at least two colors, e.g., red and green. The green light may flash each time
    the wireless gaming device sends a transmission to the receiver, for a period of time to ensure that it
    is visible to the player. The red light may illuminate when a key is pressed on the wireless gaming
 5  device, and remain lit until the transmission is received by the receiver; no additional key entry will
    be enabled when the red light is lit. The wireless gaming device may also include additional light
    emitting diodes, for example to indicate when the account balance register is being updated and the
    balance information is being displayed on the LCD.
              The receiver is capable of receiving signals transmitted from the transmitter in the wireless
10  gaming device. The receiver contains a decoder, which converts the received signals, e.g., into
    digital information. This digital information contains at least the identification code of the wireless
    gaming device and the player's wager information. The receiver sends the digital information
    obtained by the decoder to the central processor. Communications between the central processor
    and the receiver may be by an RS-232 electrical interface data serial communications link, with
15  communications being asynchronous at either 9600 or 19,200 bytes per second, in various
    embodiments.
              The receiver may receive signals from many wireless devices either simultaneously or in
    rapid succession, e.g., using multiplexing techniques, so that many players can place wagers using
    their wireless gaming devices during a short time interval. The receiver differentiates signals
20  received from the various devices by the identification codes which are present in the signals
    received by the receiver.
              The central processor receives the identification code of a wireless gaming device and the
    player's wager information from the receiver. The central processor also decrypts this information
    using the encryption key. The central processor is capable of receiving data from multiple wireless
25  gaming devices in an apparently simultaneous manner.
              In various embodiments, an account for the player is stored in a database of the central
    processor. The database stores the monetary value of the balance of the account associated with the
    identifier of the wireless gaming device.
              The central processor manages the player's account in the database based on signals
30  received from the player's wireless gaming device as the player places wagers and when prizes are
    awarded during play of the game. The central processor subtracts money from the player's account
    balance when the player places a wager. The player's account balance may be automatically
    increased by the central processor when the player wins a game on which he has placed a wager.
              The central processor also stores and is capable of executing software applications
35  containing algorithms to calculate players' account balances, wagers, and winnings. The central
    processor should be able to execute all of the algorithms which define the actions performed on the
    players' accounts during the progress of the game, as wagers are entered, as winnings paid out, and
    when funds are added to the players' accounts.
                                                    52

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
              Algorithms in the software in the central processor may also calculate odds and payouts
    for certain games, such as lottery-type games, during play of the game. The odds and payouts at a
    particular point in time may depend on the characteristics of the game being conducted by the
    central processor, and may change as the game progresses. These algorithms may be executed by
 5  the central processor to provide exact calculations of the odds of specific game events occurring
    and the associated prizes for a player's correctly predicting the occurrence of one of those events.
    The algorithms may be executed continuously, so that real-time odds and payout can be calculated
    as the game progresses.
              The central processor may perform various actions on players' accounts, resulting in
10  various impacts on the accounts. For example, if the player wins a game, his account is credited for
    the payout based on his wager. If the player places a wager using the wireless gaming device, his
    account is debited by the amount of the wager. If the game official receives additional funds from
    the player, the balance of the player's account is credited by the amount of the funds. If the game
    official closes the player's account and disburses funds to him, the balance of the player's account is
15  debited by the amount disbursed.
              The central processor may be located in the gaming establishment that houses the receiver.
    In various embodiments, the central processor may be located remotely from the receiver,
    communicating with the receiver via electronic digital telephone communication or wireless
    transmission, such as a serial communication link. Additionally, the central processor may perform
20  a multitude of functions for various receivers in a variety of gaming environments.
              In some embodiments, communication among the central processor, the receiver, and the
    wireless gaming device involves a polling scheme. Polling enables many wireless gaming devices
    to communicate with a receiver without interference between them. Such a polling scheme may
    include the transmission of digital signals in the form of strings of hexadecimal characters.
25  Preferably, all communications between the central processor, the receiver and the wireless gaming
    device are encrypted.
              In such a polling scheme, hexadecimal characters may be reserved for specific control
    protocols. For example, an attention character is a header character used to begin all transmissions
    from the central processor to the receiver, and serves to delineate messages and synchronize the
30  receipt of messages in the receiver. The same function is implied when the attention character
    follows in response to a message transmission. An acknowledgement character is another header
    character which provides acknowledgement to the transmitting device that the previous message's
    data has been received and verified. The acknowledgement character can also function as an
    attention character to begin a subsequent message. An end of message character is used to indicate
35  the end of a transmission. Also, a complement next byte character allows for use of reserved
    protocol characters within a normal transmission message by avoiding a false control signal when a
    message data byte matches one of the control characters. When a message byte that needs to be sent
    matches one of the protocol control characters, the complement next byte character is sent, followed
    by the one's complement of the matching message byte.
                                                    53

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
              Verification of received data may be accomplished using a single byte checksum of the
    message information. This checksum may be the one's complement of the sum of the original
    message data, not including the header character. If the checksum results in a value equal to one of
    the protocol control characters, it will be treated in accordance with the function of the complement
 5  next byte character.
              In the polling scheme described above, there are three different modes of communication
    over the link between the central processor and the receiver. First, the central processor may send
    messages intended for the receiver. Second, the central processor may send messages intended for
    the wireless gaming device. Third, the wireless gaming device may send messages intended for the
10  central processor. In various embodiments, messages sent by the central processor may be in the
    form of a character string formatted with a header character, followed by the identification code of
    the intended device, the command or message, an end of message character, and a checksum
    character. Messages received by the receiver or the wireless gaming device may be acknowledged
    by transmission of an acknowledgement character, but the central processor need not acknowledge
15  messages sent from the wireless gaming devices. Messages sent by the central processor to be
    received by the wireless gaming device may be broadcast to all of the wireless gaming devices. A
    device address may be reserved as a broadcast address for all of the wireless gaming devices, and
    all devices will receive messages sent to this address; in this case, no acknowledgement need be
    returned from any of the wireless gaming devices.
20            Each command or message may begin with a command code to signal how the information
    contained in the message is to be used. Command codes for messages sent by the central processor
    to the receiver and the wireless gaming device include the following:
    1. Send a device address list to the receiver;
25
    2. Send account balance information to the addressed device;
    3. Send command to disable the addressed device;
30  4. Send command to enable the addressed device.
              In various embodiments, messages sent between the receiver and the wireless gaming
    device may be in the form of a character string formatted with a header character, followed by the
    identification code of the intended device, the current wager amount, the request, command or data,
35  an end of message character, and a checksum character. Command codes for requests, commands
    and data sent between the receiver and the wireless gaming device include the following:
    1. Read user identification;
                                                    54

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    2. Read device address;
    3. Read balance register;
 5  4. Read wager amount register;
    5. Provide device status;
    6. Write user identification;
10
    7. Write device address;
    8. Write balance register;
15  9. Write wager amount;
    10. Perform self test.
              These command codes may be used to program the device addresses and user
20  identification information into the wireless gaming devices, as well as to initialize the device to the
    default state, i.e., the player's account balance of $0. The account balance register and the user
    identification may each comprise two characters, the least significant byte and the most significant
    byte, allowing for the use a greater range of numbers for these values.
              Various embodiments include methods by which the central processor communicates with
25  a wireless gaming device. The central processor transmits a string of hexadecimal characters,
    including, e.g., a header character, followed by the device's identification code, followed by a
    request, command or data, followed by an end of message character, followed by a checksum
    character. After the central processor transmits the character string, the wireless gaming device
    receives the string, recognizes its identification code, and executes any instructions in the string.
30  When the central processor sends an instruction to all wireless gaming devices simultaneously, all
    currently active devices receive and execute the instruction. The wireless gaming device does not
    send an acknowledgement message to the central processor, although the receiver may receive a
    transmission from the wireless gaming device that the instruction was received properly. The
    central processor also communicates with the receiver in a similar manner, except that the receiver
35  may send an acknowledgement message to the central processor which includes the
    acknowledgement control protocol character.
              Similarly, the wireless gaming device communicates with the receiver and the central
    processor using, e.g., hexadecimal character strings. The receiver regularly and periodically polls
    the active wireless gaming device for information requests or wagering requests. If the player has
                                                     55

 WO 2008/101188                                                                         PCT/US2008/054128
    entered a request into the wireless gaming device since the last time the wireless gaming device was
    polled, then the player's request will be transmitted to the receiver.
              Various embodiments include methods by which the wireless gaming device receives and
    relays player requests to the central processor. First, the player enters a request into the wireless
 5  gaming device using buttons or keys. The player then presses a button labeled, e.g., "enter" or
    "send," instructing the wireless gaming device to send the request the next time the receiver polls
    the wireless gaming device. When this button has been pressed, the red light of the bicolor LED is
    illuminated, thereby informing the player that the request is waiting to be sent. The request is
    converted into a hexadecimal character string, including, e.g., a header character, an identification
10  code (or, alternatively, a separate identification string reserved for a specific player), the current
    wager amount, the player's request (e.g., to change the wager amount or to send a balance update),
    an end of message character, and a checksum character. The next time the receiver polls the device,
    the transmitter of the device transmits the character string to the receiver. When the wireless
    gaming device is polled by the receiver, the green light of bicolor LED flashes, informing the player
15  that the request has been transmitted. The receiver receives the request string, and transmits the
    string to the central processor. The central processor then acts on the player's request.
              Using the terminal, the game official may process wagering transactions and distribute
    wireless gaming devices. In various embodiments, the terminal may include a bar code reader
    and/or a magnetic stripe reader for rapid entry of the identifier of a wireless gaming device prior to
20  delivering the wireless gaming device to the player. Reading devices provide information in the
    form of digital data to the terminal. The terminal includes a keyboard by which the game official
    can manually enter data to be sent to the central processor. Using either reading device, the
    keyboard, or a combination of these, the game official communicates with the central processor to
    establish a player's account, increase the balance of the account when the player tenders funds to the
25  game official, and decrease the balance of the account when the player seeks to collect the cash
    value of his account balance.
              The player establishes a balance of the account associated with his wireless gaming device,
    identified by an identifier, when he receives the wireless gaming device from the game official. The
    player may increase the monetary value of the balance of the account by paying additional funds, in
30  the form of cash or credit, to the game official, who accesses the account stored in the central
    processor through the terminal to increase the balance of the account.
              The wireless gaming device is returned to the game official after the player has played one
    or more games. The readers may be used to read the identifier for closing out the player's account
    stored in the database of the central processor. The terminal includes a terminal display which
35  notifies the game official of the balance of the player's account, so that the player may be paid the
    cash value of the remaining balance of his account.
              In some embodiments, an account status display device is located in the gaming
    establishment to display players' account information. In various embodiments, the display device
                                                     56

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    may be, e.g., a liquid crystal display or a cathode ray tube display. The display device is controlled
    by the central processor, which sends information to the display device for display to the players.
              A player may look at the display device to confirm that wagers transmitted from the
    wireless gaming device were received by the receiver and sent to the central processor, to determine
 5  the monetary balance of the player's account, and to verify that the player's winnings have been
    credited to his account. The display device displays key information necessary for a player to
    participate in a game. The information displayed for each player may include the account number,
    the player's account balance, the player's last wager, and the player's last prize award or win.
              The display device is divided into specific areas, e.g., a display area, each area showing the
10  account information for one player. The size of the display area may be determined by the size of
    the display device and the number of players who possess wireless display devices. It is
    contemplated that only active accounts will be displayed on the display device. If additional display
    devices arc required to display the information concerning a large number of accounts, the central
    processor may be configured to drive multiple similar display devices.
15            The display device may also be used to display the odds and payouts for game wagers.
    Alternately, a separate display device driven by the central processor may be used to display the
    odds and payout information. Further, the odds and payouts may be displayed on the device display
    21.
              Procedures for using the wireless interactive gaming system, according to some
20  embodiments, are now described. In some embodiments, a player tenders money in the form of
    cash or credit, e.g., $ 100, to a game official in the gaming establishment to establish an account.
    The game official chooses a wireless gaming device and uses, e.g., the bar code reader on the
    terminal to enter the identifier of the wireless gaming device into the terminal. The game official
    also inputs the amount of money tendered, i.e. $ 100, into the terminal via keyboard. The game
25  official hands the wireless gaming device to the player and tells the player that his account is, e.g.,
    Account No. 12. Alternately, the player may identify his account number directly from the
    identifier on the wireless gaming device. The information entered by the game official into the
    terminal is sent to the central processor, which establishes an account record for the player in the
    database.
30            For this example, the central processor may be conducting a racing game in which players
    choose a winning racing element on which to place a wager for the next racing game to be
    displayed in the gaming establishment. To place a wager, the player presses buttons on the wireless
    gaming device.
              In some embodiments, the player first presses the button that corresponds to the number
35  assigned to the racing element that he chooses, e.g., "3", and then the wager amount, e.g., "$" and
    "5", for a $5 wager. The player then presses the "enter" key to transmit his wager to the central
    processor.
              In an alternate embodiment, the game may be simplified so that all wagers are placed for a
    fixed amount, e.g., $1, by pressing a single button on the wireless gaming device. By pressing the
                                                     57

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    button that corresponds to the number assigned to the chosen racing element, e.g., "3", the player
    places a $1 bet on racing element number 3. The player can then place a larger wager on racing
    element number 3, by pressing the "3" button the number of times corresponding to the number of
    $1 bets he desires to make, e.g., by pressing "3" five times to wager $5 on racing element number 3.
 5            Each time the player enters a wager, the wireless gaming device forms a data packet
    containing the player's wager information and the identification code of the wireless gaming device.
    The data packet is encrypted and transmitted by the transmitter via wireless communication.
              The decoder in the receiver receives the encrypted data packet transmitted by the
    transmitter. The encrypted data packet is sent to the central processor, where it is decrypted. The
10  central processor uses the information it has obtained to update the player's account in the database
    by subtracting the wagered amount from the player's account balance and registers the player's
    wager on the game.
              After the game has been played, the central processor awards prizes to winning players
    based on the wagers they have made and the odds associated with the winning outcome of the
15  game. If the player in possession of the wireless gaming device is a winner, the central computer
    updates the player's account in the database by adding the monetary amount of the prize to the
    player's account balance. Otherwise, the player's account remains unchanged.
              When the player has finished playing games in the gaming establishment, he returns the
    wireless gaming device to the game official. The game official again inputs the identifier of the
20  wireless gaming device into the terminal, e.g., by using the bar code reader of the tenninal. The
    terminal accesses the player's account information stored in the database of the central processor to
    obtain the player's remaining account balance. The terminal display displays the player's remaining
    account balance to the game official, who then tenders the monetary value of that amount to the
    player. The account is closed, and the transaction is recorded in the central processor.
25            It should be understood that the foregoing descriptions encompass but some of the
    implementation technologies that may be used, according to various embodiments. Other
    technologies may be used and are contemplated, according to various embodiments. Various
    embodiments may be performed using any suitable technology, either a technology currently
    existing or a technology which has yet to be developed.
30  Hand-held Wireless Game Player
              Various embodiments include a hand-held wireless game player for playing a game of
    chance. The hand-held wireless game player may be generally characterized as including: 1) a wire
    less communication interface; 2) a display screen; 3) one or more input mechanisms; and 4) a
    microprocessor configured i) to present the game of chance on the display screen using operating
35  instructions received via the wireless communication interface from a master gaming controller
    located on a gaming machine and ii) to send information from input signals generated from the one
    or more input mechanisms to the master gaming controller via the wire-less communication
    interface. The wireless game player may be played in a plurality of venue locations physically
                                                   58

 WO 2008/101188                                                                      PCT/US2008/054128
    separate from the location of the gaming machine where the plurality of venue locations are
    selected from the group consisting of a keno parlor, a bingo parlor, a restaurant, a sports book, a
    bar, a hotel, a pool area and a casino floor area. The game of chance played on the wireless game
    player may be selected from the group consisting of slot games, poker, pachinko, multiple hand
 5  poker games, pai-gow poker, black jack, keno, bingo, roulette, craps and a card game. Other games
    are also contemplated, in various embodiments.
              In various embodiments, the wireless communication interface may use a wireless
    communication protocol selected from the group consisting of IEEE 802.11 a, IEEE 802.1 1b, IEEE
    802.1 1x, hyperlan/2, Bluetooth, and HomeRF. The wireless game player may also comprise a wire
10  network interface for connecting the wireless game player to a wire network access point. In
    addition, the wireless game player may also comprise a peripheral interface for connecting to a
    peripheral gaming device where the peripheral interface is a serial interface, a parallel interface, a
    USB interface, a FireWire interface, an IEEE 1394 interface. The peripheral gaming device may be
    a printer, a card reader, a hard drive and a CD-DVD drive.
15            In various embodiments, the one or more inputs mechanisms on the wireless game player
    may be selected from the group consisting of a touch screen, an input switch, an input button and
    biometric input device where the biometric input device may be a finger print reader. The wireless
    game player may also include a detachable memory interface designed to receive a detachable
    memory where the detachable memory unit stores graphical programs for one or more games of
20  chance played on the wireless game player. The wireless game player may also comprise one or
    more of the following: 1) an audio output interface for receiving a head phone jack, 2) an antenna,
    3) a sound projection device, 4) a battery, 5) a power interface for supplying power to the wireless
    game player from an external power source and for charging the battery from the external power
    source, 6) a memory unit where the memory unit may store graphical programs for one or more
25  games of chance played on the wireless game player, 7) an electronic key interface designed to
    receive an electronic key, and 8) a video graphics card for rendering images on the display screen
    where the video graphics card may be used to render 2-D graphics and 3-D graphics.
              It should be understood that the foregoing descriptions encompass but some of the
    implementation technologies that may be used, according to various embodiments. Other
30  technologies may be used and are contemplated, according to various embodiments. Various
    embodiments may be performed using any suitable technology, either a technology currently
    existing or a technology which has yet to be developed.
    Incorporation by Reference
    The following are incorporated by reference herein:
35  US patent 6676522;
    US patent 6846238;
    US patent 6702672.
                                                    59

 WO 2008/101188                                                                          PCT/US2008/054128
    Interpreting the Application
    The following sections I - X provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
            I.          Determining
 5              The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a price,
    determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in an extremely
    broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore
    "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing, deriving, investigating, looking up
    (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data structure), ascertaining and the like. Also,
10  "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving information), accessing (e.g., accessing data in
    a memory) and the like. Also, "determining" can include resolving, selecting, choosing,
    establishing, and the like.
                The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and therefore
    "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and the like.
15              The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be performed,
    and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply that an algorithm or
    process is used.
                The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used. For
    example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
20
            II.         Forms of Sentences
                Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than one
    of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget as well as more than
    one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim, the second claim uses a
25  definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this does not imply that the first
    claim covers only one of the feature, and this does not imply that the second claim covers only one
    of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one widget and more than one widget).
                When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used as an
    adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified otherwise) merely to
30  indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular feature from another feature that is
    described by the same term or by a similar term. For example, a "first widget" may be so named
    merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers
    "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other relationship between the
    two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For
35  example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1)
    does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does not
    indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3) does not indicate
    that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in importance or quality. In addition, the
    mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the
                                                      60

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before
    the term "widget" does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.
              When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more than one device /
    article (whether or not they cooperate) may ahernatively be used in place of the single device /
 5  article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as being possessed by a
    device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device / article (whether or not they
    cooperate).
               Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described herein
    (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively be used in place of the
10  more than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of computer-based
    devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device. Accordingly, the various
    functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may
    alternatively be possessed by a single device / article.
              The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described may be
15  alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not explicitly
    described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other embodiments need not include the
    described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices which would, in those
    other embodiments, have such functionality / features.
20            III.      Terms
              The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of matter,
    unless expressly specified otherwise.
              The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless expressly
    specified otherwise.
25            Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently includes one or
    more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process have an inherent
    antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like term. Accordingly, any
    reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.
              The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed in this
30  application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
              The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment", "the
    embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "certain embodiments", "one
    embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one or more (but not all) embodiments of
    the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly specified otherwise.
35            The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention, unless
    expressly specified otherwise.
              A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not imply that the
    referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g., an embodiment
    described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified otherwise.
                                                     61

 WO 2008/101188                                                                           PCT/US2008/054128
               The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but not
    limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise.
               The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
               The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
 5             The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything which may be
    incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
               The phrase "at least one of", when such phrase modifies a plurality of things (such as an
    enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or more of those things, unless expressly
    specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and a wheel" means
10  either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a
    car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least one of", when such phrase
    modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the plurality of things.
               Numerical tcrms such as "one", "two", ctc. when used as cardinal numbers to indicate
    quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity indicated by that
15  numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical term. For
    example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one widget", and therefore the phrase
    "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
               The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly specified
    otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on" and "based at least
20  on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based at least in part on".
               The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly specified
    otherwise. For example, the term "represents" do not mean "represents only", unless expressly
    specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data represents a credit card number" describes
    both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data represents a credit card number
25  and the data also represents something else".
               The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words that
    express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is previously and
    explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the clause or other words that
    the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise
30  restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
               The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit the term or
    phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g., instructions, a data
    structure) over the Internet", the tern "e.g." explains that "instructions" are an example of "data"
    that the computer may send over the Internet, and also explains that "a data structure" is an example
35  of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet. However, both "instructions" and "a data
    structure" are merely examples of "data", and other things besides "instructions" and "a data
    structure" can be "data".
               The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if two or more
    things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its own characteristic, and these
                                                       62

 WO 2008/101188                                                                           PCT/US2008/054128
    characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For example, the phrase "each of
    two machines has a respective function" means that the first such machine has a function and the
    second such machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine may or may not be
    the same as the function of the second machine.
 5             The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase it explains.
    For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions) over the Internet", the
    term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the computer sends over the Internet.
               Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within the range.
    For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically include whole numbers between
10  1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and non-whole numbers (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
               Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an explicit
    statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such term / phrase does not
    mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a different meaning. For example, where a
    statement renders the meaning of "including" to be synonymous with "including but not limited to",
15  the mere usage of the phrase "including but not limited to" does not mean that the term "including"
    means something other than "including but not limited to".
            IV.          Disclosed Exampiles and Terminology Are Not Limiting
               Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present application) nor
20  the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be taken as limiting in any way as
    the scope of the disclosed invention(s). An Abstract has been included in this application merely
    because an Abstract of not more than 150 words is required under 37 C.F.R. @1.72(b).
               The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the present
    application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.
25             Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are presented for
    illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not intended to be, limiting
    in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely applicable to numerous embodiments,
    as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the
    disclosed invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications and alterations, such as
30  structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although particular features of the
    disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and /
    or drawings, it should be understood that such features arc not limited to usage in the one or more
    particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described, unless expressly
    specified otherwise.
35             No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present application
    constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the invention claimed herein, or is
    coextensive with the invention claimed herein, except where it is either expressly stated to be so in
    this specification or expressly recited in a claim.
                                                      63

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
              All words in every claim have the broadest scope of meaning they would have been given
    by a person of ordinary skill in the art as of the priority date. No term used in any claim is specially
    defined or limited by this application except where expressly so stated either in this specification or
    in a claim.
 5            The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and possible uses of the
    claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
              The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the invention(s).
    Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s) which must be present in
    all embodiments.
10            Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in continuous
    communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary, such
    devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and may actually refrain from
    exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in communication with another machine
    via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a
15  time). In addition, devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or
    indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
              A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply that
    all or even any of such components / features are required. On the contrary, a variety of optional
    components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present
20  invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no component / feature is essential or required.
              Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in a particular
    sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words, any
    sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed does not necessarily indicate
    a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein
25  may be performed in any order possible. Further, some steps may be performed simultaneously
    despite being described or implied as occurring non-simultaneously (e.g., because one step is
    described after the other step). Moreover, the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing
    does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto,
    does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and
30  does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
              Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does not imply
    that all or any of the steps arc preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within
    the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that omit some or all of the
    described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is essential or required.
35            Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other products or
    methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods. For example,
    such interaction may include linking one business model to another business model. Such
    interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.
                                                     64

 WO 2008/101188                                                                           PCT/US2008/054128
               Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components, aspects,
    qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not indicate that any or all of the plurality are
    preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described
    invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.
 5             An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that any
    or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise. Likewise, an
    enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that any or all of the
    items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the
    enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply that any or all of the three items of
10  that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are
    comprehensive of any category.
               An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that any
    or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.
               All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any embodiments
15  were made or performed, as the case may be.
            V.           Computing
               It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various processes
    described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general purpose
20  computers, special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor (e.g., one or
    more microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal processors) will
    receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those instructions, thereby
    performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Instructions may be embodied in,
    e.g., one or more computer programs, one or more scripts.
25             A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units (CPUs),
    computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like devices or any combination
    thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level multiprocessing / multi-core, RISC, CISC,
    Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration, simultaneous
    multithreading).
30             Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for performing the
    process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a processor and those input
    devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the process.
               Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of data) may be
    stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media) in a number of
35  manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of,
    or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions that can implement the processes of
    various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware and software may be used instead of
    software only.
                                                     65

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
              The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the same, or a
    combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g., instructions, data structures)
    which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many
    forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media.
 5  Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory.
    Volatile media include dynamic random access memory (DRAM), which typically constitutes the
    main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including
    the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or
    convey acoustic waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during
10  radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer
    readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any
    other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any
    other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM,
    any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium
15  from which a computer can read.
              Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data (e.g.
    sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered from RAM to a
    processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted and / or transmitted
    according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP,
20  ATP, Bluetooth H, and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv) encrypted to ensure privacy
    or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
              Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer-readable medium
    storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable medium can store (in any
    appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate to perform the method.
25            Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the described
    steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer / computing device operable to
    perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
              Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the
    described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium storing a program or
30  data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a program that, when executed, can
    cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
              Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that
    (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed, and (ii) other
    memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of
35  any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of
    information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by, e.g.,
    tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated entries of the databases
    represent exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the
    number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further, despite any
                                                    66

 WO 2008/101188                                                                        PCT/US2008/054128
    depiction of the databases as tables, other formats (including relational databases, object-based
    models and / or distributed databases) could be used to store and manipulate the data types
    described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement
    various processes, such as the described herein. In addition, the databases may, in a known manner,
 5  be stored locally or remotely from a device which accesses data in such a database.
              Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment including a
    computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with one or more devices.
    The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly, via any wired or wireless
    medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a
10  radio channel, an optical communications line, commercial on-line service providers, bulletin board
    systems, a satellite communications link, a combination of any of the above). Each of the devices
    may themselves comprise computers or other computing devices, such as those based on the Intel
    Pcntium or CcntrinoTM processor, that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any
    number and type of devices may be in communication with the computer.
15            In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be necessary or
    desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be practiced on one or more
    devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any functions described herein as
    performed by the server computer or data described as stored on the server computer may instead
    be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
20            Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate without any user
    intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human intervention (e.g., a step is
    performed by or with the assistance of a human).
           VI.          Continuing Applications
25            The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an enabling description
    of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these embodiments and / or inventions may
    not be claimed in the present application, but may nevertheless be claimed in one or more
    continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present application.
              Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject matter that
30  has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.
           VII.         35 U.S.C.  4 112, paragrah   6
              In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for" or the phrase
    "step for" means that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, applies to that limitation.
35            In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase "means for" or the
    phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6 does not apply to that limitation,
    regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation of structure, material or
    acts for performing that function. For example, in a claim, the mere use of the phrase "step of' or
                                                    67

 WO 2008/101188                                                                       PCT/US2008/054128
    the phrase "steps of' in referring to one or more steps of the claim or of another claim does not
    mean that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, applies to that step(s).
              With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in accordance with
    35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure, material or acts described in the
 5  specification, and equivalents thereof, may perform additional functions as well as the specified
    function.
              Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures that can
    perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a specified function
    by executing one or more programs, such as a program stored in a memory device of that product or
10  in a memory device which that product accesses. Unless expressly specified otherwise, such a
    program need not be based on any particular algorithm, such as any particular algorithm that might
    be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art that a
    specified function may be implemented via different algorithms, and any of a number of different
    algorithms would be a mere design choice for carrying out the specified function.
15            Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
    accordance with 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding to a specified function
    includes any product programmed to perform the specified function. Such structure includes
    programmed products which perform the function, regardless of whether such product is
    programmed with (i) a disclosed algorithm for performing the function, (ii) an algorithm that is
20  similar to a disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different algorithm for performing the function.
              Where there is recited a means for performing a function hat is a method, one structure for
    performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
    programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function.
    Also includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is programmed and / or
25  configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function via other algorithms as would be
    understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
           VIII.       Disclaimer
              Numerous references to a particular embodiment does not indicate a disclaimer or
30  disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly references to the description of
    embodiments which all include a particular feature does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of
    embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal in the
    present application shall be prefaced by the phrase "does not include" or by the phrase "cannot
    perform".
35         IX.         Incorporation By Reference
              Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is incorporated by
    reference into this patent application as part of the present disclosure, but only for purposes of
    written description in accordance with 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 1 and enablement in accordance
    with 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise
                                                     68

 WO 2008/101188                                                                         PCT/US2008/054128
    construe any term of the present application where the present application, without such
    incorporation by reference, would not have failed to provide an ascertainable meaning, but rather
    would have allowed an ascertainable meaning for such term to be provided. Thus, the person of
    ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any way limited by any embodiments provided in the
 5  reference
               Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any endorsement of,
    ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions, arguments or characterizations
    contained in any incorporated patent, patent application or other document, unless explicitly
    specified otherwise in this patent application.
10
            X.           Prosecution History
               In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of ordinary skill in
    the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present application, but not to the prosecution
    history of any other patent or patent application, regardless of whether there are other patent
15  applications that are considered related to the present application, and regardless of whether there
    are other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present application.
                                                     69

CLAIMS
1. A method comprising:
         determining a first location of a mobile gaming device;
         determining a first game configuration associated with the first location;
         generating, by a computer system, a first game outcome using the first game
configuration;
         instructing a display screen of the mobile gaming device to display an indication of
the first game outcome;
         determining a first payout associated with the first game outcome;
         crediting a player account with a first amount based on the first payout;
         determining a second location of the mobile gaming device, wherein the second
location is different from the first location;
         determining a second game configuration associated with the second location,
wherein the second game configuration is different from the first game configuration;
         generating, by the computer system, a second game outcome using the second game
configuration; and
         instructing the display screen of the mobile gaming device to display an indication
of the second game outcome.
2. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes determining
a first payout percentage associated with the first location.
3. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes determining
a first probability of occurrence for a third game outcome, wherein the first probability is
associated with the first location.
4. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes determining
a first payout for a third game outcome, wherein the first payout is associated with the first
location.
                                                70

5. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes determining
a first bet amount required for play of the mobile gaming device, wherein the first bet
amount is associated with the first location.
6. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes:
         accessing a lookup table which contains an ordered list of locations and associated
game configurations;
         finding within the lookup table the first location; and
         determining that the first game configuration is associated with the first location.
7. The method of 1 further including:
         transmitting to the mobile gaming device, after determining the second location, an
indication of the second game configuration.
8. The method of 7 further including:
         instructing the mobile gaming device to display the indication of the second game
configuration.
9. The method of 1 further including transmitting to the mobile gaming device software for
rendering the second game outcome according to the second game configuration.
10. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes
determining a first image to be displayed during play at the mobile gaming device.
11. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes
determining a first color to be displayed during play at the mobile gaming device.
12. The method of 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes
determining a name of a first merchant to be displayed during play at the mobile gaming
device.
13. The method of claim 1, in which the first location includes a location proximate to a
merchant and the first configuration includes information about the merchant.
                                                '71

14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: receiving a selection of the first location
by the merchant indicating a desire that the first location be associated with the first game
configuration, and in which determining the first game configuration includes determining
the first game configuration based on the selection.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a selection of the first location by
a player of the mobile gaming device indicating a desire that the first location be associated
with the first game configuration, and in which determining the first game configuration
includes determining the first game configuration based on the selection.
16. The method of claim 1, in which determining the first game configuration includes
determining the first game configuration based on a number of people proximate to the first
location in order to manage the number of people proximate to the first location.
17. The method of claim 1, in which the first game configuration includes an ability to play
a first game, and the second game configuration includes an ability to play a second game
but not the first game.
18. The method of claim 1, in which the computer system includes the mobile gaming
device.
19. A computer system comprising:
         a processor operable to execute a set of instructions; and
         a memory having stored thereon the set of instructions, in which the set of
instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computer system to perform a
method comprising:
         determining a first location of a mobile gaming device,
         determining a first game configuration associated with the first location,
         generating a first game outcome using the first game configuration,
         determining a first payout associated with the first game outcome,
         crediting a player account with a first amount based on the first payout,
                                                7?

        determining a second location of the mobile gaming device, wherein the second
location is different from the first location,
        determining a second game configuration associated with the second location,
wherein the second game configuration is different from the first game configuration, and
        generating a second game outcome using the second game configuration.
                                               TA;

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
