   Abstract
   The gaming device (10) includes a housing (16), which supports a visual display (2),
 5 preferably a video monitor. The display (2) may include a window (8) for special
   messages of for incrementing counting of credits accumulated by the player. The
   window (8) can be used to describe the initiation of the feature of the gaming device
   (10) in which a player is awarded outright for a winning combination and is eligible for
   a reward if the displayed outcome can be manipulated by the gaming device (10) to
10 produce a winning combination.

                                                  1
                                Gaming Device and Method
                                          Technical Field
            The following invention is generally related to instrumentalities and
 5 methodologies in gaming devices. More specifically, the instant invention is directed to
   a gaming device having a winning outcome where the player wins directly and a non
   winning outcome which may be modified by the gaming device to produce a winning
   outcome. The invention transforms a non-winning outcome into a winning outcome if a
   permutation of the displayed symbols would produce a winning outcome according to a
10 rule set. Most specifically, the following invention allows a gaming device to transform
   an initial non-winning outcome into a winning outcome by changing the location of one
   or more displayed symbols.
                                         Background Art
            One problem common to all gaming machines is the frustration experienced by a
15 player who is unable to achieve a winning combination, yet sees a "near miss"
   combination that shows a winning combination was just missed. For example, two
   symbols on a line match, but a third matching symbol is one position off Players may
   be superstitious and seek a "hot" machine because players want to believe that their
   machine is about to pay off. While successive "near miss" results retain the player's
20 interest by encouraging this belief, if the player continues to lose in this situation,
   interest in the game is not retained and the player leaves the machine and stops gaming.
            Several games have been developed that allow displayed symbols to change
   positions in a limited manner, giving the player another chance to win. These methods
   are capable of producing more winning combinations for the player, and thus may
25 retain the player's interest more than traditional machines would. However, these
   changes in orientation are limited in the ways symbols may move and the changes are
   not guaranteed to produce winning results. In the end, these machines may be less
   popular with some players because the supposed "second chance" gives them little
   advantage over traditional methods.
30         A traditional reel slot has a single payline for three reels with twenty-two
   physical stops on each reel. A typical game play consists of spinning the reels and
   stopping the reels to indicate a winning or losing position. Some games in the industry
   have special "nudge" symbols that have an indicator pointing up or down. When a
   nudge symbol pointing down lands above the payline, the symbol automatically moves
35 down. When a nudge symbol pointing up lands below the payline, the symbol
   automatically moves up.
            In these nudge games, only particular symbols can nudge. Usually the symbols
                                                                       10467562_1 (GHMatters) P88301.AU.4 13/07/18

                                                 2
   have an up or down indicator, but sometimes a symbol can nudge both up and down. In
   all cases, the nudge symbols always nudge, whether a winning combination is made or
   lost by nudging.
           The following prior art reflects the state of the art of which applicant is aware
 5 and is included herewith to discharge applicant's acknowledged duty to disclose
   relevant prior art. It is stipulated, however, that none of these references teach singly
   nor render obvious when considered in any conceivable combination the nexus of the
   instant invention as disclosed in greater detail hereinafter and as particularly claimed.
10 PATENT NO.                       ISSUE DATE                     INVENTOR
   5,704,835                        January 6, 1998                Dietz
   5,997,401                        December 7, 1999               Crawford
15                                    Disclosure of Invention
           In a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of playing a
   game on a gaming machine, the method comprising the steps of:
           in a first round of the game, randomly selecting at least one symbol from a
   plurality of available symbols, displaying the selected symbols on a display indicative
20 of an initial outcome; and comparing the initial outcome with a predefined paytable to
   determine if the initial outcome is a winning outcome or a losing outcome;
           in response to determining that the initial outcome is a losing outcome,
   determining whether a winning outcome can be produced by reorienting the displayed
   symbols according to a predefined rule set by moving one or more displayed symbols;
25 and
           in response to determining that a winning outcome can be produced, reorienting
   the displayed symbols according to a predefined rule set by moving one or more
   displayed symbols such that a winning outcome based on any of the displayed symbols
   may be produced in comparison to the predefined paytable.
30         In a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a gaming machine
   comprising:
           a display arranged to display randomly selected symbols during a first round of
   a game, the displayed symbols being indicative of an initial outcome;
           the gaming device arranged to:
35                  compare the initial outcome with a predefined paytable to determine if
           the initial outcome is a winning outcome or a losing outcome;
                    in response to determining that the initial outcome is a losing outcome,
           determining whether a winning outcome can be produced by reorienting the
                                                                      10467562_1 (GHMatters) P88301.AU.4 13/07/18

                                                  3
           displayed symbols according to a predefined rule set by moving one or more
           displayed symbols; and
                    in response to determining that a winning outcome can be produced,
           reorientating the displayed symbols according to a predefined rule set by
 5         moving one or more displayed symbols such that a winning outcome based on
           any of the displayed symbols may be produced in comparison to the predefined
           paytable.
           Embodiments of the present invention transform the initial outcome only when a
   winning outcome can be achieved based on a defined rule set. If an initial non-winning
10 outcome cannot be transformed into a winning outcome, the player loses. If the initial
   non-winning outcome is a "near miss", or could be a winning outcome if the displayed
   symbols were in a different orientation, embodiments of the invention automatically
   provides a win to the player by merely changing the orientation of these symbols to a
   winning outcome. The player is then rewarded for this winning outcome. In this way,
15 the player's interest in gaming is retained by rewarding the player by adjusting an
   outcome that is not contemplated by the paytable into one that is contemplated.
                                      Industrial Applicability
           The invention will be more fully understood from the following description of
20 specific embodiments of the invention. The description is provided with reference to
   the accompanying drawings.
                                Brief Description of the Drawings
           Figure 1 is a flowchart of the methodology according to the present invention.
25         Figure 2 is a depiction of the apparatus associated therewith.
           Figure 3 is a depiction of the display screen shown in Figure 2, depicting an
   RXC matrix, having N paylines.
           Figure 4 parallels Figure 3, illustrating a card game.
30                         Best Mode(s) for Carrying Out the Invention
           Considering the drawings, wherein like reference numerals denote like parts
   throughout the various drawing figures, reference numeral 10 as shown in FIG. 2 is
   directed to the device according to embodiments of the present invention.
           In its essence, the apparatus 10 includes a housing 16 which supports a visual
35 display 2, preferably a video monitor, therewithin. Alternatively, the device may use a
   mechanical reel system. The display 2 may include a window 8 for special messages or
   for incrementing counting of credits accumulated by the player. For example, the
   window 8 can be used to describe the initiation of the feature of the present invention or
   its duration, or describe the particular rule set, delineated infra. The device also includes
                                                                       10467562_1 (GHMatters) P88301.AU.4 13/07/18

                                                 4
   an LED readout 4 for prompting the player and can provide similar verbiage as the
   window 8 or in lieu thereof, to stimulate the player. The device includes an inlet 6 for
   the reception therein for coins, currency or the like to auger in the inception of play. A
   plurality of decision-making buttons 12 are located on the face of the apparatus 10,
 5 preferable below the display 2 and a pull handle 14 can be used to initiate play as an 5
   alternative to supplement the decision-making buttons 12. A coin hopper 18 may be
   included to effectuate an output of an award due the player. The apparatus 10 may have
   a top portion 32 with a display thereon having a motif correlative with the game to be
   played and can include a paytable. A plurality of speakers 34 may be included on the
10 device for aural interaction with the payer. The apparatus also includes a processor P
   coordinating all functions and a random number generator G operatively coupled
   thereto for generating outcomes.
            More specifically, and with reference to FIG. 3, greater details with respect to
   the video display 2 can be explored. The display 2 features a plurality of symbols 20
15 arranged in a row and column (RXC) matrix 21. Paylines 22 correspond to areas on the
   is matrix in which winning combinations may be located.
            Referring to FIG. 1, the flow chart associated with the apparatus of FIGS. 2 and
   3 can be explored. Initially, the player plays the game with a maximum bet or less.
   Preferably, but optionally, a maximum bet enables the features of the invention.
20
           Assume a maximum bet is required. If the player plays with less than a
   maximum bet, the outcome is determined by the symbols displayed according to the
   display in FIG. 3. If the player opts to play with a maximum bet, then after initial
   outcome is displayed, the player is immediately rewarded if the initial outcome
25 corresponds to a value on an associated paytable, and is then given the option to play
   again or to quit and cash out. However, if the initial outcome does not correspond to a
   value on the paytable, all of the displayed symbols and their locations are compared to
   the paytable to determine whether a winning outcome may be produced by reorienting
   the symbols shown according to a rule set. If no winning combination can be produced
30 from the displayed symbols, the player loses, and is given the option to play again or to
   quit and cash out.      Should a winning combination be possible, the initial outcome is
   automatically manipulated to produce this winning combination by automatically
   moving one or more displayed symbols to correspond to the winning combination. The
   player is then rewarded, according to the paytable, for the winning outcome that was
35 produced.
            The following rule set controls potential reorientation when the initial outcome
   does not correspond to the paytable. Some of the following rules in the rule set may be
   mutually exclusive.
                                                                     10467562_1 (GHMatters) P88301.AU.4 13/07/18

                                                5
            1. Symbols may move one stop in either direction in a column.
            2. Symbols may only move one stop from a single particular reel to establish
   winners. For instance, only reel three from a three reel machine may be allowed to
   move one stop to establish an outcome recognized by the paytable.
 5          3. Symbols may only move one stop from a single reel to establish winners, but
   the symbol is not limited to a particular reel. For instance, two of the three winning
   symbols may be on reels two and three, and reel one moves one stop to establish an
   outcome recognized by the paytable.
            4. Symbols may move one stop from multiple reels to establish winners, but not
10 all reels. For instance, a five reel game may only allow moves on reels four and five.
            5. All symbols may move one stop to establish an outcome .recognized by the
   paytable.
            6. A subset of symbols may move to complete an outcome recognized by the
   paytable. For example, only cards less than a ten may move in a five reel video poker
15 machine.
            7. Symbols may indicate a move direction (up or down) or symbols may move
   both directions.
            8. A move can be based on precedence. For example, the highest winning
   combination recognized by the paytable may be used, the lowest winning combination
20 may be used or a bonus event combination of symbols might be used.
            9. Symbols may move only during special events. Special events resulting in this
   invention may include, but are not limited to: time intervals whose occurrence and
   duration may vary (e.g., happy hour), a special symbol which triggers the invention on
   subsequent spins, system generated events, player card events, or random events. The
25 special event times may or may not be indicated on the game with a light or other
   means.
            10. These features may be applied to any number of reels or rows. For instance,
   a five reel, three row game could be used, or a six reel, four row game could be used.
            11. These features may be applied to multiline games.
30          12. These features may be applied to video poker. For example, cards can move
   from row to row to establish the best possible winners, or cards may change rank or suit
   to provide a winning hand. For example, Figure 4 shows an arrangement where a King
   and a Queen will move to a central row, providing a winning hand. As shown, the new
   hand yields a straight and a four card flush. In one embodiment (e.g. a maximum bet), if
35 the spade King could transform to any heart, a flush would result. If the spade King
   transforms to a heart King, a royal flush would result.
            13. These features may be applied to table card games. For example, cards can
   move from row to row to establish the best possible winners, or cards may change rank
   or suit to provide a winning hand.
                                                                    10467562_1 (GHMatters)
                                                                                         P88301.AU.4 13/07/18

                                                6
           14. These features may be applied to video slot machines. In addition, the
   symbols do not have to be in different columns, the symbols can "shuffle" to establish
   winners.
           15. These features may be applied to dice games. For example, one die (or
 5 more) can be rotated beyond an initial at rest position.
           16. Dice can also move from row to row to establish the best possible winners.
          Moreover, having thus described an embodiment of the invention, it should be
   apparent that numerous structural modifications and adaptations may be resorted to
   without departing from the scope and fair meaning of the instant invention as set forth
10 hereinabove and as described hereinbelow by the claims.
                                                                  10467562_1 (GHMatters) P88301.AU.4 13/07/18

                                                7
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A method of playing a game on a gaming machine, the method comprising the
   steps of:
           in a first round of the game, randomly selecting at least one symbol from a
 5 plurality of available symbols, displaying the selected symbols on a display indicative
   of an initial outcome; and comparing the initial outcome with a predefined paytable to
   determine if the initial outcome is a winning outcome or a losing outcome;
           in response to determining that the initial outcome is a losing outcome,
   determining whether a winning outcome can be produced by reorienting the displayed
10 symbols according to a predefined rule set by moving one or more displayed symbols;
   and
           in response to determining that a winning outcome can be produced, reorienting
   the displayed symbols according to a predefined rule set by moving one or more
   displayed symbols such that a winning outcome based on any of the displayed symbols
15 may be produced in comparison to the predefined paytable.
   2.      A method according to claim 1 wherein the selected symbols are displayed in a
   matrix having rows and columns, and wherein the one or more displayed symbols are
   movable to any position on the matrix.
20
   3.      A method according to claim 2 wherein the one or more displayed symbols are
   movable within the same row.
   4.      A method according to claim 2 wherein the one or more displayed symbols are
25 movable within the same column.
   5.      A method according to claim 3 or 4 wherein the one or more displayed symbols
   only move in one direction.
30 6.      A method according to any one of claims 3 to 5 wherein the one or more
   displayed symbols only move to an adjacent area in the matrix.
   7.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the player is
   only eligible to play the second round of the game in response to a maximum wager
35 being placed in the game.

                                                8
   8.      A gaming device comprising:
           a display arranged to display randomly selected symbols during a first round of
   a game, the displayed symbols being indicative of an initial outcome;
           the gaming device arranged to:
 5                  compare the initial outcome with a predefined paytable to determine if
           the initial outcome is a winning outcome or a losing outcome;
                    in response to determining that the initial outcome is a losing outcome,
   determining whether a winning outcome can be produced by reorienting the displayed
   symbols according to a predefined rule set by moving one or more displayed symbols;
10 and
                    in response to determining that a winning outcome can be produced,
   reorientating the displayed symbols according to a predefined rule set by moving one or
   more displayed symbols such that a winning outcome based on any of the displayed
   symbols may be produced in comparison to the predefined paytable.
15
   9.      A gaming machine according to claim 8 wherein the selected symbols are
   displayed in a matrix having rows and columns, and wherein the one or more displayed
   symbols are movable to any position on the matrix.
20 10.     A gaming machine according to claim 9 wherein the one or more displayed
   symbols are movable within the same row.
   11.     A gaming machine according to claim 9 wherein the one or more displayed
   symbols are movable within the same column.
25
   12.     A gaming machine according to claim 10 or 11 wherein the one or more
   displayed symbols only move in one direction.
   13.     A gaming machine according to any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein the one or
30 more displayed symbols only move to an adjacent area in the matrix.
   14.     A gaming machine according to any one of claim 8 to 13 wherein the player is
   only eligible to play the second round of the game in response to a maximum wager
   being placed in the game.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
