   Abstract
                                    A M ethod for Processing Vegetable
 5 A method for processing vegetables, comprising:
              i)   a dicing step comprising subjecting the vegetable to mechanical size reduction;
              ii)  a softening step comprising heating or freezing the vegetable for a pre-determined
                   period; and
              iii) a treatment step comprising bringing the softened vegetable product into contact
10                 with one or more reactive oxygen species selected from: peroxides and superoxides;
              wherein the vegetable is in the species Brassica oleracea.

                                                        1
                                       Method for Processing Vegetables
   The present invention relates to a method for processing vegetables, in particular cauliflower.
 5  Cauliflower is one of several vegetables in the species Brassica oleracea, in the family Brassicaceae. It
   is an annual plant that reproduces by seed. Typically, only the head (the white curd) is eaten. The
   cauliflower head is composed of a white inflorescence meristem. Cauliflower heads resemble those
   in broccoli, which differs in having flower buds. Its name is from Latin 'caulis' (cabbage) and flower.
   Brassica oleracea also includes cabbage, brussels sprouts, kale, broccoli, and collard greens, though
10 they are of different cultivar groups.
   There are four major groups of cauliflower (Crisp, P. (1982). "The use of an evolutionary scheme for
   cauliflowers in screening of genetic resources". Euphytica 31 (3): 725).
   Italian
15 Diverse in appearance, and biennial and annual in type, this group includes white, Romanesco,
   various green, purple, brown and yellow cultivars. This type is the ancestral form from which the
   others were derived.
   Northwest European biennial
   Used in Europe for winter and early spring harvest, this was developed in France in the 19th century,
20 and includes the old cultivars Roscoff and Angers.
   Northern European annuals
   Used in Europe and North America for summer and autumn harvest, it was developed in Germany in
   the 18th century, and includes the old cultivars Erfurt and Snowball.
   Asian
25 A tropical cauliflower used in China and India, it was developed in India during the 19th century and
   includes old varieties Early Patna and Early Benaras.
   There are hundreds of historic and current commercial varieties used around the world.
   Cauliflowers are available in different colours:

                                                          2
        i.   White, which is the most common colour of cauliflower.
        ii.  Orange (B. oleracea L var. botrytis) which contains 25% more vitamin A than white varieties.
             This trait came from a natural mutant found in a cauliflower field in Canada (Dickson, M.H.,
             Lee C.Y., Blamble A.E (1988), "Orange-curd high carotene cauliflower inbreds, NY 156, NY
 5            163, and NY 165". HortScience 23: 778-779). Cultivars include 'Cheddar' and 'Orange
             Bouquet'.
    iii.     Green cauliflower, of the B. oleracea botrytis group, is sometimes called broccoflower. It is
             available both with the normal curd shape and a variant spiky curd called Romanesco
             broccoli. Both types have been commercially available in the U.S and Europe since the early
10            1990s. Green-curded varieties include 'Alverda', 'Green Goddess' and 'Vorda'. Romanesco
             varieties include 'M inaret' and 'Veronica'.
    iv.       Purple cauliflower, the colour of which is caused by the presence of the antioxidant group
             anthocyanins, which can also be found in red cabbage and red wine (Chiu, L, Prior, RL., Wu,
             X, Li, L. (July 16, 2005), "Toward Identification of the Candidate Gene Controlling
15           Anthocyanin Accumulation in Purple Cauliflower (Brassica oleracea L var. botrytis)".
             American Society of Plant Biologists Annual Meeting. p. 628). Varieties include 'Graffiti' and
             'Purple Cape'. In Great Britain and southern Italy, a broccoli with tiny flower buds is sold as a
             vegetable under the name "purple cauliflower". However, it is not the same as cauliflower
             with a purple curd.
20
   Cauliflower is low in fat, low in carbohydrates but high in dietary fiber, folate, water, and vitamin C. It
   possesses a high nutritional density. Approximate nutritional data is provided in Table 1
   Table 1: Nutritional data for cauliflower
       Nutritional value per 100 g (3.5 oz)
       Energy                               104 kJ(25 kcal)
       Carbohydrates                        5g
       - Sugars                             1.9 g
       - Dietary fiber                      2g
       Fat                                  0.3 g
       Protein                              1.9 g
       Water                                92 g

                                                      3
      Thiamine (vit. B1)                0.05 mg (4%)
      Riboflavin (vit. B2)              0.06 mg (5%)
      Niacin (vit. B3)                  0.507 mg (3%)
      Pantothenic acid (Bs)             0.667 mg (13%)
      Vitamin B6                        0.184 mg (14%)
      Folate (vit. B9)                  57 pg (14%)
      Vitamin C                         48.2 mg (58%)
      Vitamin E                         0.08 mg (1%)
      Vitamin K                         15.5 pg (15%)
      Calcium                           22 mg (2%)
      Iron                              0.42 mg (3%)
      M agnesium                        15 mg (4%)
      M anganese                        0.155 mg (7%)
      Phosphorus                        44 mg (6%)
      Potassium                         299 mg (6%)
      Sodium                            30 mg (2%)
      Zinc                              0.27 mg (3%)
   Cauliflower contains several phytochemicals, common in the cabbage family, that may be beneficial
   to human health, such as sulforaphane (Liu, RH (2004) "Potential synergy of phytochemicals in cancer
   prevention: mechanism of action", The Jburnal of nutrition 134 (12 Suppl): 3479S-3485S). A high
 5 intake of cauliflower has been associated with reduced risk of aggressive prostate cancer (Kirsh VA,
   Peters U, M ayne ST, Subar AF, Chatterjee N, Johnson CC, Hayes RB (2007), "Prospective study of fruit
   and vegetable intake and risk of prostate cancer,.Journal of the National Cancer Institute 99 (15):
   1200-9).
10 Cauliflower can be roasted, boiled, fried, steamed, microwaved or eaten raw. Steaming or
   microwaving better preservesthe potential anti cancer compoundsthan boiling (Warwick Medical
   School, University of Warwick (2007-05-15). "Research Says Boiling Broccoli Ruins Its Anti Cancer
   Properties", http:// www2.warwick.ac.uk/ newsandevents/ pressreleases/ researchsaysboiIing/).
   Boiling reduces the levels of these compounds, with losses of 20-30% after five minutes, 40-50%
15 after ten minutes, and 75%after thirty minutes. However, other preparation methods, such as
   steaming, microwaving, and stir frying, have no significant effect on the compounds.

                                                          4
   When cooking, the outer leaves and thick stalks are removed, leaving only the florets. The leaves are
   also edible, but are most often discarded. The florets should be broken into similar-sized pieces so
   they are cooked evenly.
 5 Cauliflower may be used as a substitute for rice. Whilst cauliflower can produce a similar texture, or
   mouth feel to rice, it lacks the starch. Owing to the low fat, low carbohydrate and high nutrient
   properties of cauliflower, this is particularly relevant for those restricting dietary intake of
   carbohydrate, fat and/or calories or increasing dietary intake of phytochemicals. Typically, fresh
   cauliflower curd is processed until it is the size of rice, either using a food processor, a hand-held
10 grater, or a knife. This rice-like cauliflower is then cooked using conventional methodsto produce a
   cooked, rice-like cauliflower derived product, hereinafter "cauliflower rice".
   However, it is a problem with known methodsfor producing cauliflower rice that as soon as the
   product is produced, it subsequently begins to discolour and produce odorous volatile chemicals
15 which are undesirable for the consumer. The product is therefore unsuitable for prolonged storage.
   Cooked white cauliflower curds begin to discolour to a variety of coloursfrom tan to pink. The
   colouration is attributed to the expression of carotene, chlorophyll and anthocyanins precursors
   which are present in orange, green, and purple cauliflower varieties from genes which are dormant
20 in white cauliflower prior to cooking.
   It is also known that the black discolouration which may be observed in processed cauliflower is
   attributable to the interaction between polyphenolic compounds in the cells, in particular flavonols,
   with an external source of metal ions. Cell wall destruction is found to be necessary for the
25 interaction (Advances in Food Research, Volume 19, Emil Marcel M rak, C. 0. Chichester, George
   Franklin Stewart ,Academic Press, 29 Oct 1971).
   The characteristic odour associated with cooked cauliflower is associated with the decomposition
   products of glucosinolates. These include alkyl cyanides such as 4-(methylthio)butyl cyanide and 4
30 (methylthio)butyl isothiocyanate from glucoerucin and 3-(methylthio)propylcyanide and 3
   (methylthio)propylisothiocyanate from glucoibeverin.
   Some people find the odour and/or taste of certain vegetablesto be unpleasant. Accordingly, a
   vegetable-based product that has a reduced odour and/or taste would be advantageous. Additionally

                                                          5
   or alternatively, a vegetable-based product that does not discolour or otherwise deteriorate, degrade
   or rot for a period of time upon storage would also be advantageous.
   According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for processing vegetables,
 5 comprising:
                 i)     a dicing step comprising subjecting the vegetable to mechanical size reduction;
                 ii)    a softening step comprising heating or freezing the vegetable for a pre-determined
                             period; and
                   iii) a treatment step comprising bringing the softened vegetable product into contact
10                      with one or more reactive oxygen species selected from: peroxides; superoxides;
                        and ozone.
   The dicing step suitably reduces the size of the vegetable to cereal grain sized granules. Suitably, the
   granules are rice-sized. In other words, the granules suitably have a long axis and a short axis and the
15 long axis of the granules suitably has an average length of about 1 to about 10mm. In the context of
   the present invention, the diced vegetable may be said to have an average granule size of 1 to
   10mm. In an embodiment of the invention, the diced vegetable has an average granule size of 3 to
   8mm. This allows the vegetable product to function as a rice substitute.
20 It is the purpose of the softening step to open the fibres of the vegetable in order to allow
   penetration of the reactive oxygen species into the diced vegetable product. Thus, the softening step
   increases the permeability of the diced vegetable product. In one embodiment, the softening step
   comprises heating the diced vegetable product for a pre-determined period. In an alternative
   embodiment, the softening step comprises freezing the diced vegetable product for a pre
25 determined period.
   It will be appreciated that the purpose of the softening step is to make the vegetable product more
   permeable to the reactive oxygen species. The time required to complete the softening step will
   therefore depend on the method of heating or freezing and the size of individual vegetable granules
30 following the dicing step. Thus, diced vegetable particles having an average granule size which is
   relatively small (e.g. 5mm) will require less time being subjected to the softening step than diced
   vegetable particles having a relatively larger average granule size (e.g. 10mm).

                                                         6
   In one embodiment the softening step comprises one or more conventional cooking methods such as
   baking, boiling, frying, steaming, blanching and/or microwaving. The softening step may be carried
   out at standard atmospheric pressure (i.e. 1 atmosphere) or it may be carried out at a pressure which
   is greater than or less than atmospheric pressure.
 5
   The heating method used to soften the diced vegetable product will also affect the time required for
   the softening step to be completed. For example, for a given average granule size, a diced vegetable
   product which is steamed at atmospheric pressure would typically require a longer softening step
   than a diced vegetable product which is steamed at a pressure that is greater than atmospheric
10 pressure.
   In a further embodiment, the softening step comprises dry frying. In a yet further embodiment the
   softening step comprises batch dry frying. In a yet further embodiment batch dry frying is effected
   using a reversible vibratory conveyor with variable frequency, fitted with a non stick heated ceramic
15 bed. It is advantage of this particular embodiment that it results in highly uniform cooking of the
   product and the conveyor is able to deliver the softened vegetable product directly to the treatment
   step.
   In a further embodiment, the softening step comprises blanching. In a yet further embodiment the
20 softening step comprises batch blanching.
   In an alternative embodiment wherein the softening step comprises freezing the vegetable for a pre
   determined period, the softening step may be carried out at standard atmospheric pressure (i.e. 1
   atmosphere) or it may be carried out at a pressure which is greater than or less than atmospheric
25 pressure, in particular at a pressure which is less than atmospheric pressure.
   For the avoidance of doubt, the skilled person will appreciate that in this specification, the term
   "reactive oxygen species" means chemically reactive molecules containing oxygen including
   peroxides, superoxides, ozone and hydroxyl.
30
   In the present invention, the one or more reactive oxygen species is selected from: peroxides;
   superoxides; and ozone. Suitably, the one or more reactive oxygen species is selected from peroxides
   and superoxides.

                                                       7
   In one embodiment, the reactive oxygen species is hydrogen peroxide
   Suitably, the reactive oxygen species is in the form of a solution. Solution forms of reactive oxygen
   species are well known, although in some cases, the reactive oxygen species has a relatively short life
 5 in solution before it breaks down into degradation products. Thus, the process may include the step
   of preparing a solution of a reactive oxygen species prior to the treatment step.
   In one embodiment the treatment step comprises bringing the softened vegetable product into
   contact with hydrogen peroxide solution. The softened vegetable product is suitably treated with the
10 reactive oxygen species for a time sufficient for the reactive oxygen species to penetrate
   substantially the entire vegetable granule.
   The vegetable is suitably washed prior to the dicing step. Thus, the method of the invention may
   include a washing step. The washing step may include contacting the vegetable product with a
15 solution containing an antimicrobial agent. The antimicrobial agent may comprise a single
   antimicrobial compound or it may include a combination of two or more antimicrobial compounds.
   In embodiments where the antimicrobial agent may have a negative or deleterious effect on the
   taste of the resultant product, the washing step may include a rinsing step.
20
   The method may further include a cooking or pre-cooking step in which the treated vegetable
   product is cooked or partially cooked. In such embodiments, the method suitably also includes a
   cooling step to stop the cooking process. The cooling step may be a rapid cooling step in which the
   temperature of the treated product is rapidly reduced in order to cease immediately the cooking
25 process.
   The cooking or pre-cooking step may be carried out for a pre-determined period. Thus, the treated
   product is heated to a temperature and then maintained at that temperature for the time of the
   cooking or pre-cooking step. It will be appreciated that the time required to the cooking or pre
30 cooking step will depend upon the extent to which the product is intended to be cooked (completely
   cooked or partially cooked) and also on the cooking temperature.
   In an embodiment of the invention, the method includes a packaging step in which the product is
   placed within a food grade package. In this embodiment, the amount of the product placed within

                                                        8
   each package may be determined by weight or volume. Thus, a pre-determined weight of the treated
   product may be placed within a package during the packaging step or a pre-determined volume of
   the treated vegetable product may be placed within the package. The package is suitably sealed after
   the treated vegetable product is located therein.
 5
   In one embodiment, the method includes a packaging step in which the treated vegetable product is
   placed in a retort pouch and the pouch is sealed after the product is located therein. A retort pouch
   is a type of food packaging created by aseptic processing, made from multiple layers of flexible
   laminate, allowing for the sterile packaging of a wide variety of food and drink. A retort pouch is
10 typically a plastic and metal foil laminate pouch that is used as an alternative to traditional industrial
   canning methods.
   In embodiments in which the method includes both a cooking or pre-cooking step and a packaging
   step, the cooking step may occur prior to the packaging step or the packaging step may occur prior to
15 the cooking (or pre-cooking) step. Furthermore, in embodiments in which the packaging step is
   carried out before the cooking step, the package may be sealed either before the cooking step or
   after the cooking step. Thus, the treated vegetable product may be cooked within a sealed package
   or it may be cooked in an open package which is then sealed.
20 In one embodiment, the treated vegetable product issealed into a retort pouch; the pouch is then
   heated to 100-150'C, in particular 115-125*C, for several minutesat elevated pressure, inside a
   retort machine or autoclave machine. The food inside is cooked, similar to pressure cooking. This
   process reliably kills commonly occurring microorganisms (particularly Clostridium botulinum),
   preventing it from spoiling. This packaging process is very similar to canning, except that the package
25 itself is flexible. In an alternative embodiment, the treated vegetable product is sealed into a metal
   can; the can is then heated to 100-150'C, in particular 115-125*C, for several minutes at elevated
   pressure.
   Suitably, the method relates to processing cauliflower to prepare cauliflower rice. Thus, the
30 vegetable may be cauliflower, suitably cauliflower heads or florets.
   According to a second aspect, the present invention provides a processed vegetable product
   prepared according to a method of the invention. In an embodiment of the second aspect of the

                                                          9
   invention, the processed vegetable is cauliflower. In a further embodiment, the processed vegetable
   product is cauliflower rice.
   An embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example only:
 5
   A method for preparing cauliflower rice comprising the following steps:
       i)    basic hand preparation to trim, remove damaged material and reduce the raw material to
             half curd heads of cauliflower. This step ensures that undamaged cauliflower material at a
             convenient size proceeds to the next step.
10     ii) immersion of half curd heads of cauliflower in a solution of sodium hypochlorite at
             approximately 150ppm available chlorine, with contact time of 30 minutes. The sodium
             hypochlorite solution is an antimicrobial agent.
       iii) removal of half curd headsfrom the sodium hypochlorite solution with draining under
             temperature controlled conditionsof 20Cto 50 Cfor 12 hours. Thisstep removesthe sodium
15           hypochlorite and prevents degradation of the cauliflower material prior to the dicing step.
       iv) mechanical size reduction to cereal grain size granules. These suitably have an average
             granule length of between 1 and 10mm, suitably 3-8mm, where the length isdetermined by
             the longest dimension of the granule.
       v)    batch dry frying of the granular product to a uniform 850 Cover a period of 240 seconds. This
20           softens the cellular structure of the cauliflower granules to increase permeability.
       vi) immediate batch immersion of the dry-fried product in a 0.5%solution of hydrogen peroxide,
             with a contact time of 10 minutes. This step treats the cauliflower granules to prevent or
             minimise subsequent discolouration and to reduce the characteristic cauliflower smell and
             taste.
25     vii) removal of product from hydrogen peroxide solution
       viii) rinsing or agitated soaking of product in water for 30 minutes. This step removes the
             hydrogen peroxide.
       ix) centrifuge or spin dry and store under temperature controlled conditions of 20 Cto 50Cfor 6
             hours
30     x) automated filling and sealing into retort pouches at 250g
       xi) retort cooking at 121'C and 15psi above atmospheric pressure for 172 seconds
       xii) removal of pouches from retort
       xiii) immediate rapid cooling in chilled water to stop cooking process.

                                                          10
   A further embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example only:
   A method for preparing cauliflower rice comprising the following steps:
        i)    basic hand preparation to trim, remove damaged material and reduce the raw material to
 5                 half curd heads of cauliflower. This step ensures that undamaged cauliflower material at
                   a convenient size proceeds to the next step.
        ii)   immersion of half curd heads of cauliflower in a solution of sodium hypochlorite at
              approximately 150ppm available chlorine, with contact time of 30 minutes. The sodium
              hypochlorite solution is an antimicrobial agent.
10      iii)  removal of half curd heads from the sodium hypochlorite solution with draining under
              temperature controlled conditions of 20Cto 50 Cfor 12 hours. This step removes the sodium
              hypochlorite and prevents degradation of the cauliflower material prior to the dicing step.
        iv) mechanical size reduction to cereal grain size granules. These suitably have an average
              granule length of between 1 and 10mm, suitably 3-8mm, where the length isdetermined by
15            the longest dimension of the granule.
        v)    batch blanching of the granular product to a uniform temperature, depending on season and
              variety, of between 57.00 Cand 63.5'C, with a contact period of 210 seconds. This softens the
              cellular structure of the cauliflower granules to increase permeability
        vi)   immediate batch immersion of the blanched product in a 0.5%solution of hydrogen
20            peroxide, with a contact time of 10 minutes. This step treats the cauliflower granules to
              prevent or minimise subsequent discolouration and to reduce the characteristic cauliflower
              smell and taste.
        vii) removal of product from hydrogen peroxide solution
        viii) rinsing or agitated soaking of product in water for 30 minutes. This step removes the
25            hydrogen peroxide.
        ix) centrifuge or spin dry and store under temperature controlled conditions of 20Cto 50Cfor 6
              hours
        x)    automated filling and sealing into retort pouches at 250g
        xi)   retort cooking at 121Cand 15psi above atmospheric pressure for 172 seconds
30      xii) removal of pouches from retort
        xiii) immediate rapid cooling in chilled water to stop cooking process.
   It has been found that cauliflower rice prepared according to the method of the the invention has a
   texture and mouth feel which is similar to rice, but with a significantly reduced smell and taste

                                                    11
compared to untreated cauliflower in the form of rice-shaped granules. Furthermore, the sealed
packages have a shelf life of at least 3 month, suitably at least 6 months, suitably at least 12 months.

                                                       12
   Claims
   1.      A method for processing vegetables, comprising:
                i)   a dicing step comprising subjecting the vegetable to mechanical size reduction;
 5              ii) a softening step comprising heating or freezing the vegetable for a pre-determined
                          period; and
                iii) a treatment step comprising bringing the softened vegetable product into contact
                          with one or more reactive oxygen species selected from: peroxides and
                          superoxides;
10         wherein the vegetable is in the species Brassica oleracea.
   2.      A method according to Claim 1, wherein the softening step comprises baking, frying,
   steaming, boiling, blanching or microwaving the vegetable.
15 3.      A method according to Claim 2, wherein the softening step comprises dry frying the
   vegetable.
   4.      A method according to Claim 2, wherein the softening step comprises blanching the
   vegetable.
20
   5.      A method according to any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the reactive oxygen species is hydrogen
   peroxide.
   6.      A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the method further includes a washing
25 step prior to the dicing step.
   7.      A method according to Claim 6, wherein the washing step includes contacting the vegetable
   with an anti-microbial composition, followed by a rinsing step.
30 8.      A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the method further includes a cooking
   step in which the treated vegetable product is heated at a pre-determined temperature for a pre
   determined time.

                                                       13
   9.      A method according to Claim 8 in which the cooking step is followed by a rapid cooling step
   in which the cooked vegetable product is rapidly cooled to stop the cooking process.
   10.     A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the method further includes a
 5 packaging step in which the treated vegetable product is sealed within a food grade package.
   11.     A method according to any preceding claim wherein the vegetable is selected from cabbage,
   brussels sprouts, kale, broccoli, and collard greens.
10 12.     A processed vegetable product wherein the vegetable is in the species Brassica oleracea
   prepared according to the method of any of Claims 1 to 11.

