                                          ABSTRACT
An implantable device to interface with retina cells, the device comprising: an array of pixel
units (107, 109) capable of stimulating the retina cells, the pixel units to operate in a mode of
operation selected from a plurality of modes including a normal mode and a calibration
mode; and control circuitry (105) configured to switch the modes of operation for the pixel
units, wherein during the normal mode, the pixel units are configured to receive light for the
stimulating the retina cells to enable perception of the light, and wherein during the
calibration mode, the pixel units are configured to adjust amount of stimulation to the retina
cells.
1 2OAEZII /DfI-7Ar-I\7E 2

                        FLEXIBLE ARTIFICIAL RETINA DEVICES
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
100011 This application is a divisional Application of Australian Patent Application No.
2011319744 which entered the National Phase in Australia on 26 April 2013 from
International Application No. PCT/US2011/058159, which was filed on 27 October 2011, and
which claimed Convention Priority from US 13/282422 which was filed 26 October 2011, US
13/282421 which was filed 26 October 2011, US 13/282423 which was filed 26 October
2011, US 13/102596 which was filed 6 May 2011, and US 61/407229 which was filed 27
October 2010, all of which applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety
for all purposes.
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0002] The present invention relates generally to micro devices, and more particularly to
flexible integrated circuit devices capable of stimulating neural cells.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Age-related macular disease (AMD) and the retinitis pigmentosa (RP) disease have
been identified as major causes of blindness, especially for senor people worldwide. Retinal
prosthesis device offers possible restoration of part of the vision to the blindness. Typically,
the device includes micro electrodes requiring separate wiring implant to control each micro
electrode. However, field of view provided by such devices, which depends on the number of
micro electrodes and pitch of micro electrodes included in the device, may be severely limited
because of size limitation on the wiring implant.
[0004] Furthermore, the image resolution of a retina prosthesis device may be related to
density of micro electrodes in the device. Conventional devices for retina prosthesis may
include driving circuit chips separate from electrode or image sensor chips implanted to
retinal tissues. Thus, the required number of electrical interconnections between the micro
electrode chips and the driving circuit chips can increase significantly and impose unnecessary
ceilings on achievable number of pixels.

[0005]       In addition, existing retina prosthesis devices may be based on micro
electrodes made of planner chips not conforming to non-planar shapes of retina
tissues. As a result, additional interferences among the micro electrodes may
occur because of the mismatch in shapes to further limit possible image
resolution of the device.
[0006]           Thus, traditional retina prosthesis devices are inherently limited to
provide levels of image resolutions, field of views or other visual characteristics
to achieve levels close to a real retina to help patients recover from impaired
vision capabilities.
SUMMARY OF THE DESCRIPTION
[0007]           In one embodiment, a flexible integrated device can provide high
resolution of electrical excitations (e.g. down to individual retina cell level) over
at least one mm (milli meter) to several mm of retina area corresponding to a few
degrees to a few tens of degrees field of view for retina prosthesis. The flexible
integrated device may be capable of tuning and calibration for adjusting
excitation to target retinal neurons. In one embodiment, the flexible integrated
device may be implanted using either an epi-retinal (e.g. from the front side of
retina facing the incoming light or on the retina) approach or a sub-retinal (e.g.
behind the retina) approach.
[0008]           In another embodiment, a single flexible CMOS (complementary
metal-oxide-semiconductor) chip can integrate an array of pixel units. Each pixel
may comprise a micro electrode, photo sensor, signal processor and driver
circuitry. The flexible chip can be fabricated thin enough to conform to the shape
of a retina. For example, the flexible chip about 3 mm in diameter may be
bendable to about 90 pm (micro meter) from the center of the chip to the edge of
the chip to form a two dimensional curved surface of a quasi-spherical shape
similar to that of a contact lens.
[0009]           In another embodiment, a flexible integrated device may include a
mosaic of sub-modules divided via boundaries. Device material except some
conducting lines (e.g. metal lines) between these sub-modules may be removed
from the boundaries to increase moldability (e.g. flexibility to conform to
                                            2

different shapes) of the device. In some embodiments, the flexible integrated
device may be perforated (e.g. with perforation holes) to maintain some fluidic
flow across the device. Optionally or alternatively, the flexible integrated device
may include a thin substrate to allow a portion of light to penetrate through the
backside of the chip to the integrated photo sensors, and applicable in epi-retinal
prosthesis.
[0010]            In another embodiment, a flexible integrated device may include
electrodes fitted with local return paths (or "guard ring") to confine and shorten
the total distance of electric flows from the electrodes. As a result, the amount of
electricity lost in transit of the electric flows can be lowered to prevent unwanted
stimulation of neural cells farther away from the target neuron cells, such as the
bipolar cells or ganglion cells in the sub-retina case. The surfaces of electrodes
may be positioned in three dimensions manner with multiple electrode heights
from the substrate of the device to differentially stimulate different layers of
neuron cells, such as strata of ON and OFF cells.
[0011]           In another embodiment, a flexible integrated device may include
on-chip signal processing circuitry capable of generating appropriate stimulus
waveforms for a pixel unit by taking inputs from multiple pixel units, such as
nearby neighboring pixel units. The flexible integrated device may include
electrical sensing circuitry capable of identifying the specific types of target
neural cells interfacing to each pixel unit through the receptive field and firing
patterns from the target neural cells (e.g. located close to the pixel unit).
[0012]           In another embodiment, a provision system including a flexible
integrated retina chip implanted to a user as retina prosthesis may allow fine
tuning of the chip via external commands. For example, each pixel unit in the
chip may include specific receivers and/or circuitry for receiving optical and/or
wireless communication signals for the external commands to select and/or
configure portions of the chip according to the user's visual perception. The
provision system may include a remote control to issue the external commands
optically or wirelessly.
                                              3

[0013]          In another embodiment, an implant apparatus may comprise a
plurality of photo sensors to receive light, a plurality of electrodes and circuitry
coupled to the photo sensors and the electrodes. The circuit may drive the
electrodes to stimulate neuron cells for enabling perception of a vision from the
light captured by the photo sensors. The apparatus may be implemented in a
flexible material to conform to a shape of a human eye ball to allow the micro
electrodes in close proximity to the neuron cells for the stimulation.
[0014]          In another embodiment, an apparatus implementable to tissues
including neuron cells may comprise a plurality pixel units arranged in a two
dimensional array to enable perception of a vision from light incoming to the
pixel units. Each pixel unit may comprise a photo sensor to receive the light, an
electrode to deliver a stimulus to targeted ones of the neuron cells for the
perception, and a circuitry to derive the stimulus from the light to drive the
electrode. The two dimensional array may be arranged within a device having a
front surface and a back surface opposite to the front surface. Biocompatible
layers may wrap the device to bi-directionally protect the device and the tissues.
In one embodiment, the biocompatible layer may include openings to allow
electrodes of the pixel units to stimulate the neuron cells. The device may
comprise flexible material to allow the device to be bendable to conform to the
shape of a human eye ball. The flexible material may be translucent to enable the
device to receive the light from either the front surface or the back surface of the
device.
[0015]          In another embodiment, an integrated circuit device for retina
prosthesis may comprise an array of pixel units to enable perception of a vision of
light. Each pixel unit may comprise a sensor to sense the light, a micro electrode
to deliver a stimulus to targeted ones of neuron cells for the perception and a
circuitry to derive the stimulus from the light to drive the electrode. The array of
pixel units may be arranged with a density of higher than 1000 per square
millimeter in the device. In one embodiment, the device may be flexible to allow
the array of pixel units to conform to a radius of curvature of at least 12.5
millimeter according to a shape of a human eyeball.
                                           4

[0016]          In another embodiment, a fabrication method for a flexible device
having an array of pixel units for retina prosthesis may comprise forming layered
structures including the array of pixel units over a substrate., each pixel unit
comprising a processing circuitry, an electrode and a photo sensor. A first set of
biocompatible layers may be formed over the layered structures. In one
enibodiment, the substrate may be thinned down to a controlled thickness of the
substrate to allow bending of the substrate to the curvature of a retina. A second
set of biocompatible layers may be formed over the thinned substrate. In some
embodiments, the second biocompatible layer may be in contact with the first
biocompatible layer to form a sealed biocompatible layers wrapping the device to
allow long-term contact of the device with retina tissues. Micro electrodes of the
pixel units may be exposed through the openings of these biocompatible layers.
[0017]           In another embodiment, a fabrication method for a retina
stimulation device may comprise forming a layered structure over a substrate
having a plurality of photo sensors, a plurality of micro electrodes and a plurality
of processing circuitry. The micro electrodes may be exposed over openings on a
surface of the substrate. The surface including the openings may be passivated
with barrier thin films capable of protecting the layered structure. The electrodes
within the openings may be exposed through the barrier layer for the barrier layer
to protect sidewalls around the electrodes. The substrate may be thinned down to
enable bending of the device to conform to the curvature of a retina. A polymer
layer may be formed over the barrier layer. In one embodiment, the polymer layer
may be biocompatible to allow implant of the device in living tissues. The
electrodes may be exposed through the polymer layer.
[0018]          In another embodiment, a fabrication method for a device
implantable for a retina may comprise forming an array of pixel units over a
substrate. Each pixel unit can include a photo sensor, a micro electrode and
processing circuitry coupled to the photo sensor and the electrode. Each pixel unit
may be coupled with neighboring pixel units in the array with conducting wires,
The substrate may be thinned to a thickness to allow bending of the device to
position the pixel units over a curved area conforming to the curvature of a retina.
                                           5

The device may be covered with protected layers that are biocompatible to
provide bi-directional protection between the device and tissues associated with
the retina. A plurality of perforation holes may be opened up between the pixel
units perpendicular to the chip surface to allow fluidic flow through the devices
via the perforation holes. The micro electrodes of the pixel units may be exposed
through the protected layers.
[0019]           In another embodiment, an implantable device to interface with
retina cells may comprise an array of pixel units capable of stimulating the retina
cells. The pixel units may operate in a mode of operation selected from a plurality
of modes including a normal mode and a calibration mode. A control circuitry of
the device may be configured to switch the mode of operation for the pixel units.
li one embodiment. the pixel units may be configured to receive light for
stimulating the retina cells during the normal mode to enable perception of the
images of the lights. During the calibration mode, the pixel units may be
configured to adjust amount of stimulation (strength, duration, duty cycle, latency
etc.) to the retina cells.
[0020]           In another embodiment, a method to calibrate a retina prosthesis
device may comprise detecting predetermined pre-amble of light patterns (in
space and time) or RF signal sequence to cause the device into a calibration
mode. The device may comprise an array of pixel units to receive light to enable
perception of vision of the images of the lights. The pixel units may be
configurable via electrical parameters. Light patterns or RF (Radio Frequency)
signal sequence may be received to select one or more pixel units from the array.
In one embodiment, the light patterns may be associated with known effect of
visual sensation. Stimuli may be generated from the selected pixel units to
stimulate neuron cells to cause actual effect of visual sensation via the light
patterns captured by the selected pixel units, In response to receiving external
commands, the electrical parameters may be updated for the selected pixel units
to improve the actual effect of visual sensation for the known effect of visual
sensation.
                                           6

                                                  7
[0021]     In another embodiment, a system for retina prosthesis calibration may comprise a
retina prosthesis device to interface with retina cells and a remote control device capable of
sending external commands to the device.        The device may include a plurality of photo
sensors to receive light, a plurality of electrodes to stimulate the retina cells, a configurable
processing circuitry to generate stimuli for the electrodes based on the light received, and
control circuitry to configure the configurable processing circuitry according to the external
commands. A known visual perception may be projected via the light. In one embodiment, the
external commands may be capable of selecting one or more of the photo sensors and the
electrodes. Optionally or alternatively, the external commands may be capable of selecting a
configuration of the configurable processing circuitry via a comparison between an actual
perception of vision from the stimulated neuron cells and the known perception of vision. The
configurable processing circuitry may generate the stimuli according to the configuration.
[0021A] According to one aspect of the disclosed invention, there is provided an implantable
device to interface with retina cells, the device comprising:
      an array of pixel units capable of stimulating the retina cells, the pixel units to operate in
a mode of operation selected from a plurality of modes including a normal mode and a
calibration mode; and
      a control circuitry configured to switch the modes of operation for the pixel units,
      wherein during the normal mode, the pixel units are configured to receive light for the
stimulating the retina cells to enable perception of the light, and
      wherein during the calibration mode, the pixel units are configured to adjust amount of
stimulation to the retina cells.
[0021B] According to one aspect of the disclosed invention, there is provided a method to
calibrate a retina prosthesis device, comprising:
      detecting predetermined light patterns to cause the device into a calibration mode,
13945665/P074675D3

                                                 7a
wherein the device comprises an array of pixel units to receive light to enable perception of
vision of the light, and wherein the pixel units are configurable via electrical parameters;
     receiving light patterns to select one or more pixel units from the array, the light patterns
associated with known effect of visual sensation; generating stimuli from the selected pixel
units to stimulate neuron cells to cause actual effect of visual sensation via the light patterns;
and in response to receiving external commands, updating the electrical parameters for the
selected pixel units to improve the actual effect of visual sensation for the known effect of
visual sensation.
[0022]     Other features of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying
drawings and from the detailed description that follows.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0023]     The present invention is illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the
figures of the accompanying drawings, in which like references indicate similar elements and
in which:
[0024]     Figures lA-lB are block diagrams illustrating embodiments of integrated flexible
devices for retina prosthesis;
[0025] Figures 2A-2B are relationship diagrams illustrating effects of flexible devices which
are curved according to one embodiment of the present invention.
[0026]     Figure 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary device with perforation
holes according to one embodiment of the present invention;
[0027] Figures 4A-4B are block diagrams illustrating cross sectional views of flexible devices
in one embodiment of the present invention;
13945665/P074675D3

[0028]          Figures 5A- 5J are block diagrams illustrating a sequence of
fabrication processes for flexible devices in one embodiment of the present
invention;
[0029]          Figures 5.1A-5. IF are block diagrams illustrating an alternative or
preferred sequence of fabrication processes for flexible devices in one
embodiment of the present invention;
[0030]          Figures 6A-6D are block diagrams illustrating exemplary layered
structures of flexible devices for different approaches to implant retina prosthesis;
[0031]          Figures 7A-7B are block diagrams illustrating guard rings to
provide near-by return path and confine electric flows in exemplary embodiments
of the present invention;
[0032]          Figure 8 is a block diagram illustrating layered structures for
flexible devices with protruding electrodes in one embodiment of the present
invention;
[0033]          Figure 9 is a block diagram illustrating layered structures in
flexible devices with multi-level electrodes in one embodiment of the present
invention;
[0034]          Figures 10A-1OB are schematic diagrams illustrating exemplary
signal processing circuitry in flexible devices according to one embodiment of the
present invention
[0035]          Figures 1lA-I 1B are block diagrams illustrating operations of
configured flexible devices in one embodiment of the present invention;
[0036]          Figure 12 is a block diagram illustrating a system to calibrate and
tune the flexible devices in one embodiment of the present invention;
[0037]          Figure 13 is a flow diagram illustrating a method to configure
flexible devices in one embodiment described herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0038]          Flexible artificial retina devices are described herein. In the
following description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide thorough
explanation of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent,
however, to one skilled in the art, that embodiments of the present invention may
                                            8

be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known
components, structures, and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not
to obscure the understanding of this description.
[0039]           Reference in the specification to "one embodiment" or "an
embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described
in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of
the invention. The appearances of the phrase "in one embodiment" in various
places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.
[0040]       A flexible IC (integrated circuit) device can integrate an array of
"pixels" in a sing chip. Each pixel can comprise an electrode, sensors (e.g. photo
sensors, electric sensors or other applicable sensors), a signal processor and/or
driver circuitry. The integration can simplify wiring, fan out, multiplexing or
other requirements to enable intended functions of the device. Costly signal
transmission, for example, via EM (electromagnetic) waves, between
sensor/processing circuitry and electrode arrays may be eliminated. Each pixel
can be accessible within the device to allow thousands or tens of thousands of
pixels in the device to interface with neuron cells. For example, the flexible
integrated device may provide required density to restore a 20/80 visual acuity
corresponding to about a two to four mm-sized, high density array with
 10,000-20,000 pixel units.
[0041]       In one embodiment, flexibility of an integrated device may be based
on controlled thickness of the device. For example, the device can be thin enough
to bend -90 pm from the center to the edge to conform to the shape of a retina
(e.g. a human eye ball). In some embodiments, the device may be made (e.g.
according to a fabrication process) thin enough to be bent to a radius of curvature
smaller than 12 mm, about the average radius curvature of a human retina, still
within the safety margin of the material strength of the device.
[0042]       As a device is bendable to conform to the curvature of a retina, the
neuron-to-electrode distance between electrodes of the device and target neuron
cells of the retina can be reduced. Consequently, the power required in each pixel
to excite or stimulate the neuron cells can be reduced to enable a higher pixel
                                           9

density with the allowed power density given and improve resolution of images
perceived via the neuron cells using the device implanted to a patient. In certain
embodiments, the device can meet the conformity requirements for exciting
individual retinal neuron (e.g. targeting an individual neuron cell per electrode).
[0043]      In one embodiment, a flexible integrated circuit (or device) for retina
prosthesis may be fabricated based on an 180 nm (nanometer) CMOS technology
using <-30 micrometer thick Si device layer sandwiched between two
biocompatible polymer and barrier layers (such as Polyimide/SiC, Parylene/SiC).
Both biocompatible polymer (such as polyimide, parylene, liquid-crystal
polymers etc.) and barrier layer (such as SiC, TiN, DLC diamond-like carbon or
diamond films etc.) may be compatible (e.g. biocompatible) with ISO
(International Organization for Standardization) 10993 standards to provide bi
directional protection (e.g. to allow long-term contact) between the flexible
integrated device and surrounding tissues when the device is implanted within the
tissues.
[0044]      The fabrication approach of a flexible integrated device may enable
integration of high density CMOS image sensors and signal processing circuitry
together with neuron stimulating electrode arrays on the same flexible patch
needed for medical implants. In some embodiments, semiconductor substrate
may be used in the device to allow inclusion of necessary optical and/or
electronic components for sensing optical images and producing electrical
stimulus as a function of the sensed optical images.
[0045]      In an alternative embodiment, a flexible integrated device may be
applicable in different manners of retina implantation. For example, the device
may be manufactured to be thin enough to allow certain portion of light to pass
through the device. Sensors and electrodes may be positioned in the same side (or
surface) or opposing sides of such a translucent device. As a result, the device
may be implanted in an epi-retina manner to stimulate retinal ganglion cells
(RGC) directly via electrodes of the device without utilizing a retinal neural
network before the RGC layer. Alternatively, the device may be implanted in a
sub-retinal manner to stimulate the retina from the bipolar cell side via the
                                          10

electrodes, for example, to work together with the remaining neural network
formed by a variety of neuron cells, such as bipolar cells, horizontal cells,
amacrine cells etc.
[0046]        In one embodiment, a flexible integrated device may be capable of
exciting target neuron cells or nerves according to characteristics of the neuron
cells responding to light stimuli. For example, the characteristics may indicate the
target neuron cells are ON type cells, OFF type cells or other types of cells. An
ON type cell may respond substantially synchronous with onset of light stimuli.
An OFF type cell may respond substantially synchronous with offset of the light
stimuli. The flexible integrated device may include processing capability to
generate stimuli from received light to properly excite the targeted neuron cells
(e.g. as if the neuron cells are directly stimulated by the received light), for
example, via special stimulation pattern (or waveforms), time delays, ignition,
suppression, or other applicable stimulation manners, etc. In one embodiment, the
flexible integrated device may include multiple layers of electrodes (e.g.
distributed in a three dimensional manner) to allow physical selection (e.g. based
on proximity) of different layers of neuron cells (e.g. due to neuron connection
stratification) to communicate (or stimulate). For example, each electrode or
micro electrode may be positioned to target a small number (e.g. limited to be
smaller than a predetermined number, such as 4, 8, or other applicable number) of
neuron cells without affecting other neuron cells not targeted.
[0047]        A flexible integrated device may be configurable to provide
customized functionalities for different retina implant needs. For example,
manual and/or self (automatic) calibration operations may be applied in vitro (e.g.
subsequent to implantation into a patient) to identify types of targeted neuron
cells and/or adjusting sensor/electrode array parameters of the device according
to actual visual perception of the receiving patient. Processing functions may be
activated or programmed (e.g. through programmable circuitry) to provide
equivalent signal processing effects, for example, to replace damaged neuron cell
networks to improve impaired vision of the receiving patient.
                                            11

[0048]       Figures 1A-1B are block diagrams illustrating embodiments of
integrated flexible devices for retina prosthesis. Device 100A of Figure 1 may
include a two dimensional array of pixel units. Each pixel unit may include
similar structures. For example, pixel unit 107 may comprise a photo sensor 101
to receive incoming light, processing circuitry 105 to perform operations, and
electrode 103 to stimulate target neuron cells to allow perception of vision
projected by the incoming light. In one embodiment, processing circuitry 105
may include digital, analog or other applicable circuits to process sensed light
from photo sensor 101 for generating a stimulus or waveform, activation patterns,
etc. to drive electrode 103 to stimulate the targeted neuron cells.
[0049]       Alternatively, device 100B of Figure 1B may include pixel unit 109
comprising photo sensor 111, electrode 113 and circuitry 115. Electrode 113 may
interface with target neuron cells to deliver stimulus to and/or sense electric
activities from targeted neuron cells. The stimulus may be derived from light
captured by photo sensor 111. In one embodiment, circuitry 115 may provide
processing (e.g. signal processing) functions for receiving, processing, and/or
driving electric signals. For example, electric signals may be received via sensed
light from photo sensor 111 or sensed electrical fields from electrode 113.
Circuitry 115 may drive stimulus as electric signals via electrode 113.
[0050]           The incorporation of electrical sensing circuit 115 in the retinal
prosthesis chip device 100B may enable automatic or manual identification of
neuron cells through sensed receptive field (e.g. electrical field) and neuron
spiking patterns in time domain. Examples may be functional asymmetries in ON
and OFF ganglion cells of primate retina that receptive fields of ON cells is 20%
larger than those of OFF cells, resulting in higher full-field sensitivity, and that
On cells have -20% faster response kinetics than OFF cells. A large array of
cell-sized micro electrodes conforming to the retina and capable of both sensing
and stimulating may allow selective stimulating or suppress ON and OFF retina
retinal ganglion cells.
[0051]           Figures 2A-2B are relationship diagrams illustrating effects of
flexible devices which are curved according to one embodiment of the present
                                          12

invention. Typically, image resolution and required driving power (e.g. threshold
current density) of a retina prosthesis device may depend on curvature of the
device. In one embodiment, a flexible integrated device for retina prosthesis may
include cell-pitched electrode array (e.g. each electrode is about the size of a
single neuron cell) fabricated by planar IC lithography technology. Figure 2A
shows distribution diagram 200A of neuron-to-electrode distances for
implementing an mm-sized planner electrode array chip in contact with a retina
curved according to a human eye ball, which is roughly spherical with an average
diameter of 25 mm.
[0052]           As shown in distribution diagram 200A, an mm-sized planar
electrode array chip 203 in contact with the retina 201 at the chip center may
quickly separate from the retina by about 90 microns at distance 1.5 mm from the
center toward the edge of the chip. This increase of neuron-to-electrode distance
can imply, for example, increase in the threshold current needed for an electrode
to depolarize target neurons. As shown in relationship diagram 200B of Figure
2B, the increase in the threshold current required can be 1-2 orders in magnitude
larger than that in close proximity according to curve 205. Additionally, the
increase of neuron-to-electrode distance may reduce the resolution to depolarize
particular neurons since the field lines and electrical currents (e.g. for sending
stimulus signals) from the electrodes may spread out with distance and cover a
large area to reach distant neurons. In one embodiment, a flexible integrated
device of the present invention may be implanted without the large distance or
separate implications shown in Figures 2A and 2B.
[0053]           Figure 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary device
with perforation holes according to one embodiment of the present invention.
Device 300 may be flexible in multiple dimensions to curve with at least about a
curvature of average human eye ball (e.g. 25 mm in diameter). In one
embodiment, device 300 may include multiple hexagonally packed modules with
boundaries between adjacent modules perforated with perforation holes.
[0054]           Each module, such as module 301, may include a group of pixel
units in a partition of a device. The partition may be fabricated in a hexagonal
                                           13

shape, rectangular shape, or other applicable shapes. In one embodiment,
perforation holes may allow fluid to exchange between different surfaces of
device 300. Boundaries between adjacent modules, such as boundary 303 may
include metal trace (or other conductive trace or conductive lines) as signal lines
for the adjacent modules to directly communicate with each other. Metal traces
may provide power distribution among the modules. Perforation can maintain
some fluidic flow between tissues of both sides of the device (e.g. implanted
within the tissues) through the perforation holes. The complete removal of
integrated circuit material (e.g. silicon) between the polymer and barrier layers
except metal lines along the boundaries can increase the moldability of the
device.
[0055]          Figures 4A-4B are block diagrams illustrating cross sectional
views of flexible devices in one embodiment of the present invention. Cross
section 400A of Figure 4A may indicate a flexible integrated device having
multiple pixel units 417, 419, 421, 425 with layered structures, such as silicon
layer 407, oxide and metal interconnect layers 409 or biocompatible layers
including polymer 401 and barrier layer. Unit 417 may include transistors 403,
photo sensor 405 in silicon layer 407 and electrode 413 coupled with circuitry
(e.g. including transistors 403) via aluminum 411. Perforation hole 403 may be
formed across the device along a boundary between adjacent modules. For
example, units 417, 419 may be grouped in one module adjacent to a separate
module including units 421, 425.
[0056]          Cross section 400B may indicate a cross sectional view between
adjacent modules (or pixel units) of a flexible integrated device with a cutting
plane across a boundary of the modules without cutting through perforation holes.
Passivated metal lines or other flexible, conductive lines, such as metal wire 423,
can run across the boundary (e.g. between the perforations holes) to bring
electrical signals from unit to unit.
[0057]          Figures 5A- 5J are block diagrams illustrating a sequence of
fabrication processes for flexible devices in one embodiment of the present
invention. In one embodiment, CMOS and integration of photo sensors with
                                            14

electrode arrays in structure 500A of Figure 5A may be fabricated using a
standard or slightly modified CMOS technology or a CMOS image sensor (CIS)
technology on silicon wafer. Preferably, the silicon wafer may comprise an SOI
(Silicon On Insulator) wafer with a silicon epitaxial layer a few micrometers in
thickness. A PN junction diode may be used via the modified CMOS technology
as a photo sensor. Alternatively, photo sensors with optimized doping profiles
and anti-reflection coatings may be used via the CIS technology. In certain
embodiments, CMOS-compatible conducting films such as TiN might be
deposited on top of electrode layers (e.g. aluminum 511) before patterning
electrodes. The electrodes may be exposed in the final pad opening step of a
conventional CMOS process.
[0058]           In one embodiment, structure 500A of Figure 5A may comprise
layered structures for a flexible integrated device including transistors 505, photo
sensor 507, aluminum 511 for pixel unit 513 over silicon layer (or semiconductor
layer) 503, oxide/metal layers 509, Si substrate 501 and optional oxide layer 541.
Structure 500A may include pixel units 515, 517, 519 having similar components
as in pixel unit 513. Structure 500A may have a front side (or front surface,
transistor side) 537 and a back side 535 opposite to the front side 537. Structure
500A may include passivation layer 539 as a result of, for example, a CMOS
process. Front side 537 may correspond to the chip surface of a wafer or a silicon
chip.
[0059]           Subsequently, as shown in Figure 5B, the front surface of a
layered structure may be further passivated by adhesion/barrier thin films (e.g.
about 0.1 pm to a few pm in thickness) based on, for example, SiC, diamond or
DLC (Diamond-Like-Carbon) material or layers. In one embodiment, structure
500B of Figure 5B may include barrier layer 525 as a result of the passivation.
The adhesive/barrier thin films may cover already opened pad and electrode areas
for a flexible integrated device, for example, at the final step of a CMOS process.
[0060]           After the passivation process, pad and electrode areas may be
reopened by photolithography and etching with a slightly smaller window sizes
than the original window sizes, which are smaller than the pad size and electrode
                                           15

size made in the CMOS process. As a result, the exposed side walls surround the
pads and electrodes may be protected by the adhesive/barrier layer deposited
during the passivation process. The exposed side walls, if not protected or
covered, may expose materials of the standard CMOS passivation layers such as
PECVD (Plasma-Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition) silicon dioxides and
silicon nitrides.
[0061]           In one embodiment, a metal electrode, such as aluminum 511, may
be applicable for an electrode. A biocompatible polymer deposition, such as
biocompatible polymer (I) 523, may be applied over a barrier layer, such as
barrier layer 525. The biocompatible polymer may be based on Polyimide, PDMS
(Polydimethylsiloxane), Parylene, liquid-crystal polymer or other applicable
biocompatible material. In one embodiment, the biocompatible material may be
selected according to standards specified via ISO 10993 standard. After applying
the biocompatible layer, in one embodiment, a first handle wafer may be bonded
to the front side of the device wafer. For example, structure 500C may include
handle substrate (I) 543 bonded via glue 545 in Figure 5C. Structure 500C may
be ready for thinning treatment from the backside. In some embodiments,
electrodes can be opened right after the biocompatible polymer layer, such as
biocompatible polymer (I) 523, is deposited.
[0062]           Turning now to Figure 5D, silicon substrate of a device wafer,
such as substrate 501 of Figure 5C, can by thinned down to a proper thickness by
a combination of lapping and chemical etching steps. After bonding to the carrier
substrate, such as handle substrate (I) 543 of Figure 5C, the Si wafer substrate,
such as substrate 501, may then be mechanically thinned to a thickness of about
50 micrometers or other proper thickness size by a wafer lapping machine. The
resulting surface may include micro-crack damages induced during the lapping
process. In one embodiment, a silicon chemical etching process, such as SF6
plasma etching, dry XeF2 etching, or other applicable etching processes, may be
applied to a controlled thickness to remove these damages. Alternatively, etching
over a substrate using SOI may stop at the buried oxide layer as etching stop.
Typically, the thickness may be controlled to be from several microns to less than
                                          16

several tens of microns such that the photo sensors can effectively absorb photons
through the thickness and the substrate is still bendable to the desirable curvature.
Structure 500D of Figure 5D may include a wafer substrate which has been
substantially thinned down via the thinning process.
[0063]          Turning now to Figure 5E, adhesion/barrier thin films may be
deposited on a polished and/or etched surface after the thinning process. Trenches
for dicing lanes (or perforation holes), such as dicing lane 531 may be formed.
Barrier layer 527 may be deposited over the backside of structure 500E of Figure
5E. Subsequently, perforation holes (or via holes) between device front and back
surfaces may be patterned and opened by, for example, lithography and RIE
(Reactive Ion Etching) processes or other applicable processes. For example,
structure 50OF of Figure 5F may include perforation hole or dicing lane 531. In
some embodiment, edges of a flexible device may be similarly opened as shown
in open 539 of Figure 5F.
[0064]          Turning now to Figure 5G, a polymer layer may be further etched
through to a handle substrate for perforation holes. For example, structure 50OG
may include perforation hole 531 etched through biocompatible polymer (I) 523
to handle substrate (I) 543. Subsequently, a second biocompatible polymer layer
may be deposited and patterned to open up the perforation holes. For example,
biocompatible polymer (II) 529 may be deposited over the backside of structure
50OG and opened for perforation hole 531. Two biocompatible layers may seal
together to wrap around a device as similarly shown in seal 535 of Figure 5G. In
one embodiment, biocompatible polymer 529 (e.g. 10 pm thick) may be thicker
than barrier layer 527 (e.g. about 1 or 2 pm thick). Biocompatible polymers 529,
523 may be of a similar size of thickness.
[0065]           Subsequently, a second handle substrate may be bonded to a
device on the opposite side of a first handle substrate, which has already been
boned to the device. The first handle substrate may be removed from the device.
For example, structure 500H of Figure 5H may include a newly bonded handle
substrate (II) 533 over the back side with the first handle substrate, such as handle
substrate (I) 543, removed from the front side.
                                          17

[0066]          After removing a handle substrate from the front surface,
electrodes may be exposed by applying lithography and RIE (Reactive Ion
Etching) process or other applicable processes. For example, structure 5001 of
Figure 51 may include an opening through biocompatible polymer (I) 523 for
electrode 521 on the front side. Electrode 521 may comprise conductive metallic
material such as gold, platinum and/or copper. In one embodiment, electrode 521
may be covered by another layer of metallization (IrOx, Pt, TiN, FeOx etc.) for a
better electrode-to-electrolyte interface. Alternatively or optionally, an electrode
may include an optional dielectric layer (e.g. a thin layer of high-k dielectrics of
about 0.1 pm), such as dielectric 535 of Figure 51, for providing stimulation
based on displacement current instead of direct current. In some embodiments,
another optional adhesive layer, such as about a few micron to less than 0.1 p m
of laminin, may be deposited on the top surface of the electrode (or a flexible
device) to help the electrode (or the flexible device) to adhere to tissues for
improving implantation. Finally, a second handle wafer may be removed to
complete the fabrication process of a flexible integrated device. For example,
structure 500J of Figure 5J may represent a flexible integrated device without a
second handle substrate, such as handle substrate (II) 533 of Figure 51.
[0067]          Figures 5. 1A-5. iF are block diagrams illustrating an alternative or
preferred sequence of fabrication processes for flexible devices in one
embodiment of the present invention. CMOS circuits and integration of photo
sensors with micro electrode arrays in structure 5 100A of Figure 5.1A may be
fabricated using a standard or slightly modified CMOS/CIS technology or other
applicable technologies on a silicon wafer. Trenches for dicing lanes (e.g. about
50~100 pm wide) and optional perforation holes may be processed based on front
side processing without requiring more than one carrier handler to fabricate the
flexible devices. As a result, the manufacturing procedure may be streamlined as
the thinning process (e.g. backside lapping) may be considered a dirty process
and restricted from sending back to certain clean fabrication processes.
[0068]           In one embodiment, structure 5 10A may include oxide/metal
layer 5105 and active silicon layer 5107 over a silicon or SOI wafer (not shown in
                                           18

the figures) according to, for example, a CMOS/CIS process. The active silicon
layer 5107 may include transistors 5123 and photo sensors 5125 over silicon
substrate 5129 with an optional oxide layer 5131 in between silicon layers 5107
and 5129. At the end of a CMOS/CIS process, structure 5 10A may include
passivation 5101 (e.g. silicon nitride/oxide) with metal contact pads, micro
electrodes opened, such as metal 5103.
[0069]          Turning now to structure Figure 5.1B, structure 51OB may include
electrodes 5109 and trenches 5127 for dicing lanes or perforation holes for
flexible devices may be fabricated from structure 5 1OA. For example, thin metal
films may be added to cover the wafer of structure 51 OA. A thick photo resistance
material may be added by spin coating the wafer on the thin metal films.
Electrode 5109 may be added via electroplating (e.g. including Pt or Au material)
after the thick-photoresist photolithography processes. Subsequently, the photo
resistance material and the thin metal film may be removed. In one embodiment,
electrode 5109 may be about the same thickness of the desired thickness of the
final covering polymer layer (for example, 10 jtm). Additional photo resistance
coating and photolithography exposure may be applied to the surface and an RIE
processes are used to etch through the passivation layer, the silicon dioxide
layers, and into the silicon substrate to create trench 5127. Trench 5127 may be
etched through the silicon area (or active silicon layer) 5107.
[0070]          Subsequently, turning now to Figure 5.1C, structure 510C may
include a barrier layer 5111 deposited over structure 510B of Figure 5.1B. Barrier
layer 5111 may be based on DLC (diamond like carbon), SiC or other applicable
material. Fabrication to add barrier layer after forming the electrode 5109 may
ensure protection of electrode 5109 sidewalls surrounded or enclosed by the
barrier layer. Biocompatible polymer layer may then be coated to cover barrier
layer 5111. For example, structure 510D of Figure 5. ID may include
biocompatible polymer 5113. In one embodiment, a polymer layer of about 20
prm thick may be applied via spin-coat and followed by curing processes. The
polymer layer may be planarized via lapping process or reactive ion etching
process to close to the electrode thickness (for example, about 10 pm thick).
                                           19

[0071]           Structure 510E may include electrode conductor 5115 based on
SIROF (sputtered iridium oxide film). In one embodiment, SIROF may be
deposited via sputtering iridium target in oxygen-containing plasma, and using a
lift-off process to define the electrode region. Finally, an optional thin dielectrics
layer maybe deposited on top of the microelectrode for a voltage-mode operation
of the micro electrodes.
[0072]           Turning now to Figure 5.1 E, structure 51 GE include structure
5IOD of Figure 5.1D attached to carrier wafer 5115 on the front side by a glue
layer (e.g. wax) 5117. Back-side Si substrate (e.g. silicon substrate 5129 of Figure
5.ID) may be thinned via lapping, chemical etching processes stopping at total
thickness of about 20 pm (e.g. stopping at barrier layer 5111 or the buried oxide
layer if an SOI wafer is used). Subsequently, a barrier layer may be added on top
of already thinned-downed structure 51OE followed by another biocompatible
polymer coating.
[0073]           For example, turning now to Figure 5.1 F, structure 51 OF may
include barrier layer 5119 and biocompatible polymer 5121, for example, coated
over structure 510E of Figure 5. 1E, based on back-side passivation. Structure
5 1OF may be released from carrier wafer 5115 by dissolving the glue layer 5117.
As a result, one layer of barrier layer, e.g. barrier layer 5119, may be deposited in
contact of another layer of barrier layer, e.g. barrier layer 5111. Together with
the two layers of biocompatible polymer, e.g. polymer 5121, 5113, they may
completely cover/enclose the thin chip except in the microelectrode region.
[0074]           In one embodiment, die separation (or dicing) may be applied via
razor blade cutting through dicing lanes, such as over trench 5127. Alternatively
or optionally, perforation holes may be created by applying additional
photolithography and plasma etching and reactive ion etching processes to
remove polymer and barrier layers through trench 5127. An optional adhesive
layer (for example, laminin or fibronectin) maybe applied on the micro electrodes
surface to promote the contact of tissue to the micro electrodes.
[0075]           Figures 6A-6D are block diagrams illustrating exemplary layered
structures of flexible devices for different approaches to implant retina prosthesis.
                                           20

In one embodiment, a flexible integrated device for retina prosthesis can include a
thin substrate to allow a portion of light to penetrate through the device (or chip)
when not obstructed by metals. Thus, the monolithic chip can to be used for epi
retinal prosthesis even when the photo sensors and electrodes are both fabricated
on the front side of the chip.
[0076]          For example, device 600A of Figure 6A may include photo sensor
607 and electrode 615 fabricated on the front side (or transistor side) of the
device. Device 600A may be implanted in an epi-retinal manner with light 623
coming from the back side of the device. In one embodiment, electrodes and
photo sensors of device 600A may face the side towards retina ganglion cells
621. Device 600A may include layered structures including silicon 603 having
transistors/sensors 605, oxide layers 609, aluminum 613 and optional tissue glue
(for example, laminin, fibronectin etc.) 617 for electrode 615, biocompatible
polymer 601 wrapping the device and optional perforation hole 619 opened
through the device.
[0077]          In one embodiment, device 600A may include thin silicon
substrate about less than 10 micrometers to allow more than a few percents of
light coming from the back side of the device to reach the photo sensors as optical
decay length of visible light may be a few microns in silicon. Thin silicon
substrate may be based on fabrication processes using SOI (silicon on insulator)
wafers and thinning a silicon wafer down after the MOS process.
[0078]          Turning now to Figure 6B, device 600B may include similar
layered structures as in device 600A of Figure 6A. In one embodiment, device
600B may be implanted in a sub-retinal manner with light 649 coming from the
front side of the device. Electrodes and photo sensors of device 600B may face
the side towards retina bipolar cells 625 and incoming light.
[0079]          In an alternative embodiment as shown in Figure 6C, device 600C
may include photo sensor 633 on the front side and electrode 637 on the back side
of the device. Advantageously, electrodes in device 600C will not block incoming
light to photo sensors. In one embodiment, device 600C may be implanted in an
epi retina manner with light 647 coming from the front side and electrodes facing
                                           21

retina ganglion cells 645 on the back side. Device 600C may include layered
structures having silicon 629 with transistors/sensors 631, oxide and metal
interconnect layers 627, optional tissue glue 643 for electrode 637, biocompatible
polymer and barrier layers 635 wrapping the device and perforation hole 641
across the front and back surfaces of the device. Electrode 637 may be coupled
with processing circuitry including, for example, transistors circuit 631, through
the conducting vias, such as TSV (through silicon via) in aluminum 639.
[0080]          Alternatively, in Figure 6D, device 600D may include similar
layered structures as in device 600C of Figure 6C. Device 600D may be
implanted in a sub-retinal manner with light 653 coming from the back side of the
device. Electrodes of device 600D may face the side towards retina bipolar cells
651.
[0081]          Figures 7A-7B are block diagrams illustrating guard rings to
provide nearby return path and confine electric flows in exemplary embodiments
of the present invention. Device 700A of Figure 7A may include electrodes fitted
with local return paths, or "guard ring" to confine electric flow from the
electrodes. In one embodiment, device 700A may be an flexible integrated device
with layered structures including silicon 707 having transistors circuit 709 and
photo sensor 711, oxide layers 719, electrode 715 over aluminum 717, and
biocompatible polymer layers 701, 703 wrapping around the device over
barrier/adhesive layer 705. Device 700A may be implanted within tissue 721 in a
current driving mode. For example, current 723 from electrode 715 may follow
the lowest impedance path. Device 700A may include guard 713 as guard ring (or
local return electrode) to provide a local return path guiding current 723 from
undesired target directions.
[0082]          Similarly in Figure 7B, device 700B may operate in a voltage
driving mode with electric field 727 from electrode 715 confined via guard 713.
Device 700B may include optional dielectric 725 for electrode 715.
[0083]          Preferably, electric fields or electrical currents can be confined (or
made smaller, narrower) locally close to originating electrodes through guard
rings. Thus, unwanted stimulation of neural cells other than target neurons of
                                           22

each electrode, such as stimulating the bipolar cells without exciting the ganglion
cells, may be prevented. In a flexible integrated device with guard rings, the
electro fields from one electrode may not interfere with other electro fields from
separate electrodes using guard rings.
[0084]           Figure 8 is a block diagram illustrating layered structures for
flexible devices with protruding electrodes in one embodiment of the present
invention. For example, device 800 may comprise flexible and integrated chip
with protruding electrode arrays. Device 800 may include layered structures
having metal/dielectric layers 807, silicon with active components 809, and
polymer and barrier layers 811 wrapping the device with the polymer and barrier
layers 813. Electrode 803 may be elevated with a protruding tip in close
proximity with target neuron cell 801. Preferably, when implanted, elevated
stimulus electrodes can push through some of separation layers of tissues to be in
closer proximity to the target locations of stimulation. Thus, the required
threshold current or power to depolarize the target neurons may be reduced to
enable higher number of electrodes with finer resolution (e.g. higher than, for
example, at least 250 per square millimeter).
[0085]           Figure 9 is a block diagram illustrating layered structures in
flexible devices with multi-level electrode heights in one embodiment of the
present invention. For example, device 900 may comprise flexible and integrated
chip with arrays of electrode protruding in multi-levels. Device 900 may include
layered structures having metal/dielectric layers 907, silicon with active
components 909, and polymer and barrier layers 913 wrapping the device with
the polymer and barrier layers 911. Electrodes 917, 903 may be positioned in two
different levels to separately stimulate neuron cells 901, 915.
[0086]           In one embodiment, multiple-level protruding electrodes, such as
electrodes 917, 903, may differentially stimulate different strata in different types
of neuron cells (e.g. ON type cells, OFF type cells, or other applicable types of
cells). For example, multiple-level protruding electrodes may separately target
neurons ON-pathway and OFF-pathway as retina connections between bipolar
cells and ganglion cells separated into two different levels of strata.
                                           23

[0087]          Figures 10A-10B are schematic diagrams illustrating exemplary
signal processing circuitry in flexible devices according to one embodiment of the
present invention. Device 1000A of Figure 10A may include pixel unit 1005
coupled with neighboring pixel units 1001, 1003, 1007, 1009 in a two
dimensional pixel unit array. Pixel unit 1005 may be indexed by (m, n) in the two
dimensional pixel unit array to receive incoming light at time t represented by
I(m, n, t). Each pixel unit may exchange information on received light with
neighboring units (or other applicable pixel units).
[0088]          In one embodiment, each pixel unit may include signal processing
circuitry to receive inputs from neighboring pixel units. For example, referring to
Figure 10A, signals I(m, n+1,t), I(m-1, n, t), I(m, n-1, t), and I(m+1, n, t)
representing light received or sensed from neighboring pixel units 1001, 1003,
 1007, 1009 may be available to pixel unit 1005. The arrangement of pixel units
may be based on rectangular, hexagonal (e.g. with each pixel unit having six
closes neighbor pixel units), or other applicable two dimensional or
multi-dimensional array.
[0089]          In certain embodiments, a flexible integrated device may include
signal processing circuitry capable of simulating neuron network processing
mechanisms similar to the center/surround antagonism receptive field of neurons.
For example, a pixel unit may generate a pixel current output (or a stimulus)
proportional to the difference of the sum of center pixel light intensity and the
averaged sum of surround light intensity on its neighbors to excite proper RGC
spiking. In general, a pixel unit may use different weights to sum over inputs
from local coupled neighboring pixel units, such as those closest neighbors,
second closest neighbors, third closest neighbors, etc. to derive a processed signal
derived from captured light for generating a stimulus.
[0090]          For example, circuitry 1000B of Figure 10B may include a
processing element 1015 generating a weighted output Id(m, n) 1017 from sensed
signal inputs 1019 separately weighted through weigh settings 1011, 1013 (e.g.
resistor components). In one embodiment, pixel unit 1005 of Figure 10A may
include circuitryl000B for signal processing. Four of sensed signals I(m-1,n),
                                          24

I(m+1,n), I(m, n-1), I(m, n+1) 1019 (e.g. inputs from neighboring pixel units)
may be weighted with equal weights of 1/4 of sensed signal I(m, n) via resistor
components, such as R 1013 and R/4 1011. In some embodiments, weights may
be set (e.g. dynamically configured) to about zero (e.g. equivalent to
disconnecting from corresponding neighboring pixel units) for a majority of
neighboring pixel units except for those pixel units at metering locations to
reduce effect of background absolute light intensity in a similar manner as multi
point metering used in digital cameras. In some embodiments, signal subtraction
may be applied in processing signals exchanged from neighboring pixels units to
generate stimuli based on relative intensity of incoming light instead of absolute
intensity.
[0091]          Figures 11 A- 11 B are block diagrams illustrating operations of
configured flexible devices in one embodiment of the present invention. For
example, flexible integrated device 1133 may be configurable to provide portions
of functionality identified from neuron cells, such as retinal ganglion cells 1105
and/or neural cell networks 1107, to reestablish damaged or deteriorated vision
perception. Neural cell networks 1107 may include neuron cells such as
horizontal cells, bipolar cells, amacrine cells or other retina cells etc. Device 1133
may include processing circuitry 1101 coupled with micro electrode array 1103
capable of sending stimuli to and/or sensing responses from neuron cells.
[0092]          In one embodiment, device 1133 may be configurable when
operating in a calibration/programming mode. Device 1133 may operate in other
modes such as a normal mode to stimulate neuron cells from incoming light to
enable vision perception. In some embodiments, during a
calibration/programming mode, sensor and processing circuitry 1101 may switch
between a sensing mode and a driving mode to identify and configure processing
characteristics (e.g. via a programmable logic array or other applicable
programmable circuitry) such that proper stimuli can be generated for desired
sensory output O(pi, qi) 1115 from incoming light I(xi, yi) 1111 (e.g. generated
light) when a portion of the neuron cells are unable to function properly (e.g.
damaged, decayed, deteriorated etc.)
                                          25

[0093]           For example, sensor and processing circuitry 1101 may enter a
sensory mode right after sending stimulus from incoming light I(xi, yi) 1111 to
normal working or relatively healthy neuron cells to produce sensory output O(pi,
qi) 1115. In some embodiments, light I(xi, yi) 1111 may be generated to optically
select and configure a portion (e.g. a pixel unit or a group of pixel units) of device
 1133. Processing circuitry 1101 in the sensing mode may be capable of detecting
responses from the neuron cells, such as retinal ganglion cells 1105. The
responses may be voltages, waveforms or other applicable signals or spikes over
a period of time to represent sensory output O(pi, qi) 1115. Processing circuitry
 1101 may store information including relationship between incoming light and
the corresponding responses detected. The information may represent inherent
processing characteristics H(pi, qj, xi, yi) 1135 in neuron cells, for example,
based on the relationship indicated by the expression O=H*I.
[0094]           Subsequently, as shown in Figure 11B, processing circuitry 1101
may be configured to perform operations to make up for lost or altered visual
information processing capabilities of neuron cells. For example, photoreceptive
cells 1109 may be damaged or bleached to block neural cell networks 1107 from
processing sensed light signals. As a result, visual perception may be based on
processing characteristics G'(pi, qj, x'i, y'j) 1135 of retinal ganglion cells 1105.
[0095]           In one embodiment, processing circuitry 1101 may be configured
(e.g. automatically or manually) to perform operation (or transform operation)
H'(x'i, y'j, xi, yj). For example, stimuli to retina ganglion cells 1105 may be
generated in the configured processing circuitry 1101 according to effective light
input I' = H'*I to allow perceived output O'(pi, qj) 1123 according to G'*I' to be
close to O(pi,qj) 1115. In one embodiment, H'(x'i, y'j, xi, yj) may be
programmed or configured based on inherent processing characteristics H(pi, gj,
xi, yj). Processing circuitry 1101 may operate in a driving mode with the
configured processing capability. Device 1133 may operate in a normal mode of
operation, or in a calibration mode of operation for further fine tuning or
adjustment.
                                           26

[0096]          In one embodiment, processing circuitry may incorporate
electrical sensing circuitry to enable measurement of retina neuron response
kinetics during a calibration mode, for example, when device 1133 is implanted
in an epi-retina manner. With the ability to switch the device (or chip) to
electrical sensing right after electrical stimulation, the ON cells and OFF cells can
be identified through the response time, and this information can be used to
formulate the specific electrical stimulus from the nearby electrode when local
light information is sensed by photo sensors on the device.
[0097]          Figure 12 is a block diagram illustrating a system to configure
flexible devices in one embodiment of the present invention. System 1200 may
include configurable retinal prosthesis device 1133 with on-chip processing
circuitry 1101 optically or wirelessly coupled with external or remote control
device 1201 to provide a control or feedback path for tuning/adjusting
configurable device 1133. In one embodiment, processing circuit 1101 and
electrode array 1103 may include electrical parameters or settings which can be
updated via external commands, for example, to adjust light sensitivity, stimulus
intensity, or other applicable parameters to individual pixel level and achieved
desired visual perception. In one embodiment, a patient may operate remote
control 1201 via user control 1207 based on perceived visions in visual cortex
 1205.
[0098]          In some embodiments, external commands 1203 may be optical
commands included in optical inputs 1209 which may comprise predetermined
visual patterns. Alternatively, external commands 1203 may be wirelessly
transmitted (e.g. based on EM signals or RF signals) to device 1133 via wireless
transceiver. Device 1133 may include certain light sensing pixels together with
special decoding circuit on chip to detect special light pulse pattern from optical
input 1203 to enter the chip into calibration mode for tuning/adjustment.
Alternatively, the external commands may wirelessly cause device 1133 to enter
a calibration mode or other modes of operation.
[0099]          In one embodiment, each pixel or regions of pixels of device 1133
may be separately accessed optically or wirelessly through light projection (e.g.
                                            27

into the eye on the implanted region). The pixel or regions can be electrically
accessed on chip to tune electrical stimulus parameters to achieve targeted effects
of visual sensation. In one embodiment, test patterns, e.g. via optical input 1209,
can be projected onto the implanted retina or directly viewed by implanted
patients. The targeted visual effects may be described to the patients for
conducting manual tuning of parameters of implanted retina prosthesis chips
using the external optical input device to allow the best approximation of the
targeted visual effects.
[00100]          Figure 13 is a flow diagram illustrating a method to configure
flexible devices in one embodiment described herein. Exemplary process 1300
may be performed by a processing circuitry that may comprise hardware
(circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.), software (such as machine code executed in a
machine or processing device), or a combination of both. For example, process
 1300 may be performed by some components of system 1200 of Figure 12.
[00101]          In one embodiment, the processing logic of process 1300 may
detect light patterns (e.g. predetermined) from received light via photo sensors at
block 1301. The processing logic of process 1300 may decode the captured light
to extract the light patterns optically encoded in the light. On detecting the light
patterns, the processing logic of process 1300 may cause a device to enter a
calibration mode for configuration. The device may comprise an array of pixel
units to receive light to enable perception of a vision from the light. The pixel
units may include circuitry configurable via electrical parameters, such as
detection circuitry for photo sensors and/or driving circuitry for electrodes.
[00102]          At block 1303, in one embodiment, the processing logic of process
 1300 may receive light patterns to select pixel units from an array of pixel units
of a flexible integrated device. The light patterns may be associated with known
effects of visual sensation. For example, a patient implanted with the device may
be aware of which visual perception to be expected, such as the shape of the
image of light, the relative intensity of the image of light or other visual effects.
At block 1305, the processing logic of process 1300 may generate stimuli from
selected pixel units to stimulate neuron cells to cause actual effect of visual
                                           28

sensation similar to a normal person should experience with the light patterns
received. In some embodiments, the light patterns may include selection light
patterns to identify which pixel units should be selected.
[00103]          Subsequently, at block 1307, in one embodiment, the processing
logic of process 1300 may receive external commands to update electrical
parameters of a flexible integrated device. The external commands may be
optically or wirelessly received. The processing logic of process 1300 may update
the electrical parameters to cause adjustment of actual effects of visual sensation
from the light patterns (or other applicable incoming light) received via the
selected pixel units updated with the electrical parameters. The captured light
(e.g. the light patterns) may be associated with known visual effects. As a result
of the update, the actual effect of visual sensation may be adjusted to match the
known effects of visual sensation to proper configure the device. In some
embodiments, light patterns may be separately generated for pixel selection and
for electrical or circuitry updates for the selected pixels.
[00104]          In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described
with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that
various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader
scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The invention is not
limited to the particular forms, drawings, scales, and detailed information
disclosed. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an
illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.
                                            29

                                                 30
CLAIMS:
1. An implantable device to interface with retina cells, the device comprising:
      an array of pixel units capable of stimulating the retina cells, the pixel units to operate in
a mode of operation selected from a plurality of modes including a normal mode and a
calibration mode; and
      a control circuitry configured to switch the modes of operation for the pixel units,
      wherein during the normal mode, the pixel units are configured to receive light for the
stimulating the retina cells to enable perception of the light, and
      wherein during the calibration mode, the pixel units are configured to adjust amount of
stimulation to the retina cells.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the control circuitry comprises decoding circuitry to detect
if the light represents a predetermined visual pattern and wherein control circuitry switches
the mode of operation of the pixel units if the predetermined visual pattern is detected.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein each pixel unit comprises a processing circuitry, wherein
the processing circuitry is configured to:
      generate a stimulus in the normal mode of operation for the electrode to deliver to
targeted one or more of the neuron cells.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein each pixel unit comprises an electrode and a photo sensor,
the photo sensor to receive the light, the electrode to stimulate the targeted neuron cells.
5. The device of claim 3, wherein the pixel unit further comprises a guard ring to confine the
stimulus to the targeted neuron cells.
6. The device of claim 4, wherein the pixel unit is coupled with one or more neighboring pixel
13945665/P074675D3

                                                 31
units in the array, wherein an intensity signal from the photo sensor indicates the received
light, wherein the pixel unit receives intensity signals from the neighboring pixel units and
wherein the generation comprises signal processing operations on the intensity signal and the
received intensity-signals from the neighboring pixel units.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the signal processing includes weighed combination of the
intensity signals to reduce effect of absolute background light intensity.
8. The device of claim 4, wherein the pixel units include configuration settings for the
stimulation, further comprising:
      an interface to receive external commands in the calibration mode to update the
configuration settings, wherein the configuration settings include electrical parameters of
photo sensors detection circuitry.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the configuration settings include electrical parameters of
electrodes driving circuitry.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the control circuitry is capable of selecting a portion of the
pixel units to partially stimulate the neuron cells, and wherein the control circuitry is capable
of selectively updating the portion of the pixel units.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the interface is based on wireless connection.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the pixel unit further comprises an electric sensor to
receive electric current from the targeted neuron cells.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the generation of the stimulus depends on a characteristic
of the targeted neuron cells.
13945665/P074675D3

                                                  32
14. The device of claim 12, wherein at least one of the pixel units suppresses targeted neuron
cells for the stimulation.
15. The device of claim 12, wherein the characteristic indicates the target neuron cells are ON
type and wherein the stimulus is substantially synchronous with onset of the light.
16. The device of claim 12, wherein the characteristic indicates the target neuron cells are
OFF type and wherein the stimulus is substantially synchronous with offset of the light.
17. The device of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to:
      generate a test stimulus to the targeted neuron cells in the calibration mode of operation,
the targeted neuron cells to cause a response signal responding to the test stimulus; and
      identify the characteristic of the targeted neuron cells according to the response signal.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the pixel unit further comprises an electric sensor to
receive electric current from the targeted neuron cells to provide the response signal.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the identification comprises:
      measuring kinetics of the electric current from the response signal,
      wherein the kinetics includes time lag between the test stimulus and the electric current.
20. The device of claim 8, wherein the pixel units deliver stimuli from an input in the
calibration mode to the neuron cells, the stimuli to cause known visual sensation via a
network of neuron cells, and wherein the control circuitry is further configured to:
      adjusting the configuration settings to allow the pixel units to generate updated stimuli
from the input to cause the known visual sensation without the network of neuron cells.
13945665/P074675D3

                                                 33
21. A method to calibrate a retina prosthesis device, comprising:
     detecting predetermined light patterns to cause the device into a calibration mode,
wherein the device comprises an array of pixel units to receive light to enable perception of
vision of the light, and wherein the pixel units are configurable via electrical parameters;
     receiving light patterns to select one or more pixel units from the array, the light patterns
associated with known effect of visual sensation; generating stimuli from the selected pixel
units to stimulate neuron cells to cause actual effect of visual sensation via the light patterns;
and in response to receiving external commands, updating the electrical parameters for the
selected pixel units to improve the actual effect of visual sensation for the known effect of
visual sensation.
                             Iridium Medical Technology Co., Ltd.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON
13945665/P074675D3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
