ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a liposomal formulation containing a therapeutic agent and
a process for producing the formulation. The liposomal formulation comprises particular
characteristics that enhance uniformity and stability of the formulation. The
manufacturing process is a novel process that produces a liposomal formulation of a
uniform size with many desirable properties that may be independently controlled.
Further, the invention relates to a liposome formulation made in accordance with the
manufacturing process.

                 LIPOSOME FORMULATION AND MANUFACTURE
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]          The present invention relates to a novel liposome formulation and a
manufacturing process for the liposome formulation.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          Liposomes are known in the art to function as carriers to deliver therapeutic
agents to targeted cells for treating a variety of medical conditions. In one application,
liposomes may be formulated to encapsulate a pharmaceutical agent that can be
phagocytized selectively by macrophages. Once phagocytized, the liposome releases the
agent intracellularly, inhibiting inflammatory functions of the macrophages, among other
effects.
[0003]          The art describes several methods for preparing such liposomes (see, e.g.,
M6nkk6nen, J. et al., 1994, J. Drug Target, 2:299-308; M6nkk6nen, J. et al., 1993, Calcif.
Tissue Int., 53:139-145; Lasic DD., Liposomes Technology Inc., Elsevier, 1993, 63-105.
(chapter 3); Winterhalter M, Lasic DD, Chem Phys Lipids, 1993; 54(1-3):35-43). In one
such method, liposomes are formed into stacks of liquid crystalline bilayers that are
hydrated into hydrated lipid sheets, which detach during agitation and self-close to form
large, multilamellar vesicles (MLV) known as thin lipid film hydration technique. Once
these particles are formed, the size of the particle is dependent on the method used in the
next steps of the process, for example, sonic energy (sonication) or mechanical energy
(extrusion). Sonication typically produces small, unilamellar vesicles (SUV) and requires
bath and/or probe tip sonicators. Alternatively, lipid extrusion which forces a lipid
suspension through a series of polycarbonate filter - typically 0.8, 0.4, 0.2 and 0.1 pm
                                                -1-

membranes - at high pressure (up to 500 psi), produces particles having a diameter near
the pore size of the filter used. These methods are limited to small-batch productions,
primarily used for research purposes. Moreover, the high pressure extrusion techniques
are associated with high operating costs and time. Thus, there remains a need in the art for
a method of liposome production useful for commercial scale manufacture which is
reproducible and addresses issues including quality control, stability, scalability and
sterilization of liposome production.
[0004]           In addition, liposomal formulations known in the art are not substantially
uniform in size and shape which is a critical feature of a pharmaceutical composition to
provide a sterile product and avoid potentially toxic side effects of aberrant large
liposomes. Currently, it is difficult to manufacture a liposome formulation having a
uniform size. The extrusion process of multilamellar vesicles through a series of filters
including, for example, 100 nm polycarbonate filters does not consistently produce a
formulation having substantially uniform population of liposomes having a 100 nm size.
Indeed, depending on the physical characteristics of the liposomes, such as compressibility
and/or stability, the mean vesicle diameter for extruded vesicles may vary considerably
depending on the type and size of filters used. Thus, there is a need for a method of
manufacture capable of producing liposomes substantially uniform in size and shape.
[0005]           Moreover, many physical characteristics of the liposome formulation affect
the cellular response to the liposome and impact the effectiveness of the liposome as a
pharmaceutical composition. The physical characteristics of the liposome formulation are
influenced in many respects by the manufacturing process. However, the art does not
address how the liposomal properties can be controlled in the formulation process to
manipulate manufacturing efficiency and liposome stability. Thus, there is a need for a
                                              -2-

large-scale manufacturing process that is cost effective, yet can control the characteristics
of the liposome formulation to produce liposomes that are substantially uniform and
suitable for clinical use.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]          The present invention describes novel liposomes encapsulating therapeutic
agents. The invention also relates to liposomal formulations having a high degree of size
uniformity which results in minimizing side effects and increasing confidence in
sterilization processes. The invention also describes an efficient and cost-effective
manufacturing process, for production of liposomes under low pressure extrusion
conditions. Liposomes formulated by this process have desirable characteristics and
efficacious therapeutic properties.
[00071          The liposome formulation is characterized by liposomes having desirable
composition and physical characteristics. The liposome comprises lipid ingredients
encapsulating a therapeutic agent. According to one aspect of the present invention, the
lipid ingredients comprise diastearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC),
diastearoylphosphatidylglycerol (DSPG) and cholesterol, preferably in a 3:1:2 molar ratio
(DSPC:DSPG:chol).
[0008]          The liposome is composed of a lipid ingredient and the therapeutic agent,
having a ratio of the mass of the therapeutic agent to that of the lipid ingredient, called the
drug:lipid ratio, of about 1:5 to 1:8 by weight, preferably 1:6 to 1:7. This drug:lipid ratio
enhances stability and effectiveness, and also impacts drug release and liposome integrity.
These and other structural characteristics impart unexpected benefits to the instant
formulation.
                                              -3-

[0009]           The liposomes of the present invention are in the size range of 30-500 nm,
preferably, 70-120 nm, 100-300 nm, 100-180 nm, and 70-150 nm, depending on the type
of therapeutic agent and/or the carrier used. In one preferred embodiment, the liposomes
may be 80±5 nm in size.
[0010]           Other physical characteristics of the liposome composition also contribute
significantly to its stability and effectiveness. For example, the conductivity of the
liposome, which may affect selective uptake into phagocytic cells. In one embodiment,
the conductivity is between 13.5-17.5 ms/cm. Similarly, the external and internal
osmolality of the formulation affects stability and effectiveness. Preferably, the external
osmolality is matched with that of the human body whereas the internal osmolality is
sufficiently low to enhance stability of the formulation. In one embodiment of the
invention, the internal osmolality is between 340-440 osmol/kg. Another favorable
parameter is the pH of the liposome and/or the liposome formulation. For example, an
internal pH of about 6.9 for the liposomal formulation has a beneficial effect on long term
stability as well as drug leakage rate and drug encapsulation capability.
[0011]           The liposomes of the invention are relatively rigid compared to those in the
art, as characterized by having liposomal membranes which are less compressible.
Liposomes of the invention have compressibility less than 0.7 ml/g. Due to their greater
rigidity, the liposomes of the present invention have improved stability and shelf-life.
[0012]           The liposome formulation also has novel and useful characteristics. The
liposome formulation of the present invention is comprised of liposomes which are
substantially uniform in size and shape distribution, while being relatively rigid. The
formulation has little size variation as from one liposome to another. The uniformity of
the liposomes, as measured by the Poly Diversity Index ("PDI"), less than 0.075,
                                                -4-

preferably in the range of about 0.02-0.05, signifying a composition having high
uniformity. Accordingly, the liposome formulation of the present invention
advantageously reduces the incidence of adverse events associated with large liposomes,
and allows sterile filtration to be performed efficiently.
[0013]           Another aspect of the invention is a process for manufacturing a liposomal
formulation. The manufacturing method includes the steps of (1) mixing a therapeutic
agent with preselected lipids to form vesicles, (2) extruding the vesicles in a single-stage
through a single-sized filter, and (3) ultrafiltration. Following ultrafiltration, the product
may optionally be standardized to the desired final concentration. Because the extrusion
of step 2 is performed as a single-stage extrusion under low pressure, the present method
saves operating costs and time and increases yield over high pressure extrusions utilizing
multiple stages. These manufacturing steps are adaptable for large-scale production.
[0014]           In one embodiment of the manufacturing process, the formulation is
prepared by (1) mixing a therapeutic agent with lipids comprising DSPC, DSPG and
cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2 to form vesicles such that the mass ratio of said
therapeutic agent to lipid is in the range of about 1:5 to 1:8, (2) extruding the vesicles in a
single-stage through a filter having a pore size about 100 nm, and (3) ultrafiltration.
[0015]           Yet another aspect of this invention is a liposome formulation made in
accordance with the manufacturing steps above. The formulation comprises a plurality of
liposomes, composed of an amount of lipid ingredient encapsulating a therapeutic agent.
For example, said lipid ingredient comprising DSPC, DSPG and cholesterol in a molar
ratio of about 3:1:2, and the mass ratio of said therapeutic agent to lipid ingredient may be
in the range of about 1:5 to 1:8. The formulation is manufactured by the following steps:
(1) mixing a therapeutic agent with preselected lipids to form vesicles, (2) extruding the
                                                 -5-

vesicles in a single stage through a single sized filter, and (3) ultrafiltration. Following
ultrafiltration, the product may optionally be standardized to the desired final
concentration. Preferable, the formulation made in accordance with this method has a PDI
less than 0.075, more preferably in the range between 0.02 and 0.05. This process
produces a liposome formulation of the having novel and useful features, including, for
example, the 3:1:2 ratio of the lipid ingredient, the drug:lipid ratio, PDI, rigidity, pH,
osmolality and conductivity.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0016]            FIG. 1 is a flow chart of the manufacturing process of the liposomal
formulation of the present invention.
[00171            FIG. 2 represents a flow-chart summarizing the manufacturing process of 1
liter of liposomal alendronate for IV infusion for dosage strength 5 mg/ml, and its process
control parameters according to one aspect of the invention.
[0018]            FIG. 3 is a TEM image of the liposomal alendronate according to one
aspect of the invention.
[0019]            FIG. 4 is a graph comparing the specific compressibility of various
liposome formulations.
[0020]            FIG. 5A is a graph of the size distribution of the liposome formulation of
the invention.
[0021]            FIG. 5B is a graph of the size distribution of a liposome formulation in the
art.
                                                -6-

                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0022]          The present invention relates to a novel liposome, formulation and a
method of making same for use in the treatment of various diseases. The formulation
comprises a plurality of liposomes encapsulating a therapeutic agent, or an "encapsulated
agent." The physical characteristics of each liposome facilitates stability and effectiveness
of the liposomal formulation. The formulation is characterized by liposomes which are
substantially uniform in size and shape. Also, the invention describes an efficient and
cost-effective manufacturing process for the liposome formulation, while meeting the
needs of large-scale production. Further, the invention relates to a formulation having
novel and useful properties produced by said manufacturing process.
A.       Components of the Liposome
[0023]          The present invention relates to novel and useful forms of a liposome.
Different liposome ingredients may be used to form the liposome of the invention.
Preferably, the lipid ingredient is non-toxic biocompatible lipids, such as, for example,
lipids prepared from phosphatidyl-choline, phosphoglycerol, and/or cholesterol. In one
embodiment of the present invention, the lipid ingredient comprises
diastearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC), diastearoylphosphatidylglycerol (DSPG) and
cholesterol, preferably in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2 (DSPC:DSPG:chol).
[0024]          The lipid ingredient encapsulates a therapeutic agent, wherein both
components have a preselected mass. As used herein, the "drug to lipid ratio" (or
drug:lipid ratio) refers to the relative amounts of the drug to the lipid ingredient, by mass,
that comprise the liposome and/or formulation. In one embodiment of the invention, the
liposome has a drug:lipid ratio between about 1:5 and 1:8, preferably, between 1:6 and 1:7
                                               -7-

by weight.
B.       Physical Properties of Liposomes
[0025]          Various physical parameters and characteristics of the liposomes may affect
the uniformity, stability and effectiveness of the formulation. These physical
characteristics include (1) osmolality (internal and external to the liposome), (2)
conductivity (internal and external to the liposome), (3) drug to lipid ratio, (4) the pH
(internal and external to the liposome), and (5) the type of lipids and drugs used in the
composition.
[0026]          Osmolality is the measure of the concentration of solutes of the liposomal
formulation. As used herein, the term "osmolality" refers to the measure of solute
concentration as defined by the number of solute molecules in osmoles (osmol) of solute
per kilogram of solvent (osmol/kg). The internal osmolality is the concentration of solutes
within the liposome, where the external osmolality is the concentration of solutes outside
the liposome. In one embodiment of the invention, the liposome has a low internal
liposomal osmolality. Internal osmolality can be adjusted by varying the amount of drug
that is encapsulated within the liposome. The art describes liposomes that contain as much
drug as possible, resulting in liposomes with high osmolality (high encapsulation ratio).
However, the present invention discloses liposomes having a lower osmolality (or low
encapsulation ratio) as compared to those in the art. The lower osmolality, i.e., between
about 340-440 osmol/kg, as disclosed herein improves the stability of the liposomes and
the uniformity of the liposomes within the formulation. One way to achieve a low internal
osmolality is to decrease the amount of therapeutic agent encapsulated in the liposome
formulation. Another way to lower internal osmolality, which does not require varying the
drug:lipid ratio, utilizes a non-charged agent, such as certain polysaccharides or sugars
                                              -8-

known in the art.
[00271           The external osmolality is preferably isotonic to that of the body, especially
for injectable formulations, to be isotonic to that of the body. As such, the external
osmolality is preferably relatively constant. The internal and external osmolality of the
invention results in a product having high stability, low drug leakage rate and proper drug
encapsulation capability of the liposome.
[0028]           As used herein, the term "conductivity" refers to the ability of the liposome
to conduct electricity based on the ionic content of the solution. Conductivity is related to
the ionic content of the liposome and affects stability, drug leakage rate and drug
encapsulation capability of the liposome formulation. The conductivity of the liposome is
in the range of about 13.5-17.5 ms/cm. In one embodiment of the invention, the
encapsulated drug agent is charged. It is noted that a charged drug has a one-to-one
correlation between conductivity and the osmolality of the liposome. Therefore, altering
the amount of a charged agent to be encapsulated proportionally affect both properties. In
an alternative embodiment, a neutral (non-charged) drug agent may be used. Where a
neutral agent such as a polysaccharide, for example, is used to adjust conductivity,
osmolality is independent from the concentration of the drug and thus can be controlled
independently from the concentration of the agent.
[0029]           Another novel aspect of the liposomes of the instant invention is the relative
rigidity of the composition, i.e., the stability of the liposome in different environmental and
internal body conditions, and its susceptibility to break apart. Liposome rigidity is a
measure of the strength of the liposome membrane and its ability to resist shear force and
pressure, which can improve the shelf-life of the liposomes. The rigidity of liposomes is
inversely related to its compressibility. Liposomes having low compressibility have
                                                 -9-

greater rigidity. One exemplary method of determining liposome rigidity is through
ultrasound velocimetry and densitometry. Methods of determining liposome rigidity are
known in the art, and are detailed in, for example, Cavalcanti, Leide P., et al.,
"Compressibility study of quaternary phospholipid blend monolayers", Colloids and
Surfaces B: Biointerfaces 85(2011) 153-160; and Hianik, Tibor, et al., "Specific volume
and compressibility of bilayer lipid membranes with incorporated Na, K-ATPase", General
Physiology and Biophysics 30(2011) 145-153, the entire contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0030]           The liposome has a pH for both the solvent external to the liposome (the
external pH) and the internal encapsulated portion of the liposome (the internal pH). The
pH affects the stability, drug leakage rate from the liposome and drug encapsulation
capability of the liposome formulation. One embodiment of the formulation has an
internal pH in the range of about 6.8-7.0. The internal 6.8-7.0 pH is beneficial to the
stability of the formulation. The pH of the solvent for the therapeutic agent may be
maintained, among other means, by continuously titrating the solution to remain in the 6.8
7.0 pH range or held at a particular pH such as, for example, about pH 6.9 as the
therapeutic agent is dissolved using a known buffer. The internal pH of the liposome may
be different from the external pH of the liposome. A different pH can be achieved by
varying the pH of the solutions that make up the internal and external environments of the
liposome.
C.       The Formulation
[0031]           The liposomal formulation of the present invention comprises a plurality of
liposomes having the characteristics described above and being substantially uniform in
size and shape, that is, having little size variation as from one liposome to another
                                                -10-

liposome. Uniformity of the formulation is measured by its Poly Dispersity Index (PDI).
PDI is measured on a non-linear scale of 0 to 1, where a value of 0 is a perfectly uniform
preparation while a composition having a PDI of 1 has high diversity (non-uniformity).
The formulation of the present invention has a PDI less than 0.075, preferably in the range
between 0.02-0.05. PDI values may be calculated as discussed in Zetasizer nano series
user manual, 2003, Malvern Instruments, pp. 5.5-5.6 and Kazuba M., Nano Series and
HPPS Training Manual Chapter 1, 2003, Malvern Instruments, pp. 9, the contents of which
are incorporated by reference. Indeed, the PDI of the current formulation is close to that of
sizing standards where PDI is less than 0.02. Formulations previously known in the art
have substantially different uniformity than that of the present invention, with a PDI
typically around 0.3. As PDI is a non-linear scale, the PDI of the present invention is
substantially distinct than that of formulations in the art. Indeed, the low PDI of the
present invention advantageously avoids the toxic effects associated with large liposomes,
and produces a formulation more suitable for filter sterilization.
[0032]          The formulation of the present invention contains liposomes of increased
rigidity and uniformity, improving its stability and shelf life. Further, it is contemplated
that the formulations of the present invention are efficacious. Banai, Shmuel, et al.,
"Targeted anti-inflammatory systemic therapy for restenosis: The Biorest Liposomeal
Alendronate with Stent sTudy (BLAST) - a double blind, randomized clinical trial", Am
Heart J. (2013) 165(2): 234-40.
[00331          Liposomes of the instant formulation are specifically sized so as to be
taken-up by the macrophage and monocytes. The liposomes may be in the size range of
30-500 nm. However, depending on the type of agent and/or the carrier used, the ranges
include, but are not limited to, 70-120 nm, 100-500 nm, 100-300 nm, 100-180 nm, and 80
                                              -11-

120 nm. These ranges, however, are examples and other particular sizes suitable for up
take via phagocytosis will be recognized in the art without departing from the spirit or
scope of the invention. In one preferred embodiment, the size of the liposome within the
formulation is about 80±5 nm.
[0034]         A variety of therapeutic agents may be encapsulated by the liposomes of the
invention. Once the liposome is phagocytosed, the therapeutic agent is a substance that
can decrease or inhibit the activity of and/or eliminate the amount of phagocytic cells in a
patient. The therapeutic agent may be any chemical entity, including large or small
molecules, a mixture of chemical compounds, inorganic or organic compound, a biological
macromolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, peptides, antibodies and nucleic acids.
Therapeutic agents can be natural products derived from known organisms or synthetic
compounds.
[0035]         One type of therapeutic agent is useful in this invention are
bisphosphonates. Bisphosphonates (formerly called diphosphonates) are compounds
characterized by two C-P bonds. If the two bonds are located on the same carbon atom
(P-C-P) they are termed geminal bisphosphonates. The bisphosphonates are analogs of
the endogenous inorganic pyrophosphate which is involved in the regulation of bone
formation and resorption. The bisphosphonates may at times form polymeric chains.
Being highly hydrophilic and negatively charged, bisphosphonates in their free form are
almost entirely incapable of crossing cellular membranes.
[0036]         The term bisphosphonate as used herein, denotes both geminal and non
geminal bisphosphonates. A preferred agent, a bisphosphonate, has the following formula
(I):
                                              -12-

                                      OH    R1     OH
                                       I     I      I
                                 O=P-C-P=O
                                       I     I      I
                                      OH R2        OH
                                                                   (I)
wherein R1 is H, OH or a halogen atom; and R 2 is halogen; linear or branched C1 -CIO alkyl
or C2 -Cio alkenyl optionally substituted by heteroaryl or heterocyclyl C1 -Cio alkylamino
or C3 -C8 cycloalkylamino where the amino may be a primary, secondary or tertiary;
NHY where Y is hydrogen, C3 -C8 cycloalkyl, aryl or heteroaryl; or R 2 is -SZ      where Z is
chlorosubstituted phenyl or pyridinyl.
[0037]          One example of a bisphosphonate agent is alendronate, having the
following formula (II):
                                      OH     OH       OH
                                       I      I       I
                                 O=P-c-P=O
                                       I      I       I
                                      OH    (CH 2) 3 OH
                                             NH2
                                                                  (II)
[00381          Many bisphosphonates have activities similar to that of alendronate and are
useful as therapeutic agents for the invention. Such bisphosphonates may be selected on
the basis of their ability to mimic the biological activity of alendronate. This includes, for
example: in vitro activity in inhibiting activity of phagocytic cells, e.g. macrophages and
fibroblasts once inside such cell; inhibition of secretion of IL- 1 and/or IL-6 and/or TNF-a
from macrophages; and in vivo activity, e.g., the ability of the tested formulations to
deplete or disable blood monocytes in an animal model or in humans or to treat myocardial
                                               -13-

infarction and reduce the zone of infarct.
[00391          Bisphosphonates applicable in the present invention, include, but are not
limited to, clodronate, tiludronate, 3-(N,N-dimethylamino)-1-hydroxypropane-1,1
diphosphonic acid, e.g. dimethyl-APD; 1-hydroxy-ethylidene-1,1-bisphosphonic acid, e.g.
etidronate; 1-hydroxy-3(methylpentylamino)-propylidene-bisphosphonic acid, (ibandronic
acid), e.g. ibandronate; 6-amino-1-hydroxyhexane-1,1-diphosphonic acid, e.g. amino
hexyl-BP; 3-(N-methyl-N-pentylamino)-1-hydroxypropane-1,1-diphosphonic acid, e.g.
methyl-pentyl-APD; 1-hydroxy-2-(imidazol-1-yl)ethane-1,1-diphosphonic acid, e.g.
zoledronic acid; 1-hydroxy-2-(3-pyridyl)ethane-1,1-diphosphonic acid (risedronic acid),
e.g. risedronate; 3-[N-(2-phenylthioethyl)-N-methylamino]-1-hydroxypropane-1,1
bishosphonic acid; 1-hydroxy-3-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)propane-1,1-bisphosphonic acid, 1-(N
phenylaminothiocarbonyl)methane-1,1-diphosphonic acid, e.g. FR 78844 (Fujisawa); 5
benzoyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrazole-3,3-diphosphonic acid tetraethyl ester, e.g. U81581
(Upjohn); and 1-hydroxy-2-(imidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)ethane-1,1-diphosphonic acid,
e.g., YM 529.
[0040]          In certain embodiments, such as, e.g., sodium alendronate encapsulated in
DSPC, DSPG and cholesterol, a 1:5.7 drug:lipid mass ratio -- equal to approximately a 1:3
molar ratio for sodium alendronate -- may be used. Where clodronate disodium, another
therapeutic agent, is encapsulated in the same lipid ingredient, an approximately 1:5.4
mass ratio -- equates to a 1:3 molar ratio -- may be used. Other therapeutic agents that
inhibit or deplete phagocytic cells by eliminating, retarding the proliferation and/or down
regulating the activity of the phagocytic cells may be encapsulated in the present
invention. Specific therapeutic agents include any agent that is cytotoxic or cytostatic,
including but not limited to, for example, gallium, gold, silica, 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin,
                                              -14-

alkylating agents, mithramycin and paclitaxol. In any of the above therapeutic agents, the
drug:lipid ratio of the liposome is between about 1:5 and 1:8, preferably, between 1:6 and
1:7 by weight.
[0041]          In one embodiment, the formulation contains the encapsulated therapeutic
agent that may enter a cell via phagocytosis and selectively target macrophage and
monocytes without affecting other non-phagocytic cells. Because macrophages and
monocytes, in their normal state, are recruited to a cellularly damaged area and promote
inflammation beyond that caused by the disease or condition alone, monocyte/macrophage
inhibition and/or depletion may attenuate the underlying damaged area. Once inside the
phagocytic cells, the agent is released and inhibits, inactivates, disables, kills and/or
depletes the monocytes and/or macrophages for treatment of various conditions involving
a phagocytic immune response, such as, for example, ischemic reperfusion injury or
inflammatory injury, such as, for example, myocardial infarction, reduction in the final
zone of infarct and improvement of cardiac repair and outcome following acute
myocardial infarction. The liposomes of the formulation have specific characteristics,
including size , charge, pH, conductivity and osmolality that allow uptake primarily via
phagocytosis.
[0042]          After being taken-up by the monocytes/macrophages, the agent has a
sustained inhibitory activity on the monocytes/macrophages. This sustained activity is
sufficient to modulate the monocyte/macrophage's inflammatory action. Thus, prolonged
release of the agent is not required in order to sustain inhibition. Accordingly, the method
of treating certain diseases by inhibiting monocytes/macrophages, such as, for example, by
the use of an encapsulated agent, is preferably a systemic therapy, in that the formulation
targets the circulating monocytes and macrophages. Depending on the type of therapeutic
                                              -15-

agent encapsulated, the phagocytic cells may respond differently. For example,
alendronate encapsulated liposomes cause apoptosis, while clodronate encapsulated
liposomes cause necrosis. Non-phagocytic cells are relatively incapable of taking up the
formulation due to the particular physiochemical properties of the liposomal formulation.
[0043]          Furthermore, the liposomes of the present invention not only retain the
therapeutic agent for a sufficient time so that the agent is not released in the body fluids,
but also efficiently discharge the agent within the target cell. The liposomes of the present
invention deliver an effective amount of the agent to the targeted cells. The term
"effective amount" denotes an amount of the formulation which is effective in achieving
the desired therapeutic result, e.g., treatment of endometriosis, restenosis, ischemia
reperfusion injury (IRI), myocardial infarction or other related conditions. For example,
the decrease in number and/or activity of activated macrophages and monocytes reduces
the zone of infarct and/or improves remodeling when the injury relates to myocardial
damage. The effective amount may also depend on a number of factors including, but not
limited to: weight and gender of the treated individual; the mode of administration of the
formulation (namely whether it is administered systemically or directly to the site); the
therapeutic regime (e.g., whether the formulation is administered once daily, several times
a day, once every few days, or in a single dose); clinical indicators of inflammation;
clinical factors influencing the rate of development of the underlying condition to be
treated, smoking, hypercholesterolemia, pro-inflammatory states, renal diseases; and on
the dosage form of the composition. The successful delivery and administration of the
liposomal formulation depend from its stability and effectiveness. The number of
therapeutic agent molecules encapsulated in each liposome (payload), vesicle size, and
level of free un-encapsulated material are the important parameters that determine the
therapeutic index of the product.
                                              -16-

D.      Dosage and Administration
[0044]          The liposomal formulations may be administered by any route which
effectively transport the liposomes to the appropriate or desirable site of action. Preferred
modes of administration include intravenous (IV) and intra-arterial (IA) (particularly
suitable for on-line administration). Other suitable modes of administration include
intramuscular (IM), subcutaneous (SC), and intraperitonal (IP). Such administration may
be bolus injections or infusions. Another mode of administration may be by perivascular
delivery. The formulation may be administered directly or after dilution. Combinations of
any of the above routes of administration may also be used in accordance with the
invention. Any route of administration may be utilized provided that the particles are in
contact with phagocytic cells (e.g., circulating monocytes or peritoneal macrophages).
[0045]          Pharmaceutical compositions for use in accordance with the present
invention may be formulated using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers
comprising excipients and auxiliaries known in the art, which facilitate processing of the
active ingredients into preparations which, can be used pharmaceutically.
[0046]          Dosage amount and interval may be adjusted individually to provide plasma
levels of the formulation sufficient to induce or suppress the biological effect (minimal
effective concentration, "MEC"). The MEC will vary for each preparation, but can be
determined from in vitro data. Dosages necessary to achieve the MEC will depend on
individual characteristics and route of administration. Detection assays can be used to
determine plasma concentrations.
[00471          Depending on the severity and responsiveness of the condition to be treated,
dosing can be a single or a plurality of administrations, with course of treatment lasting
                                              -17-

from several hours to several weeks or until treatment is effected. The frequency of
administration may vary depending on the condition and the severity. In one embodiment,
the formulation may be administered periodically. The dosage may be formulated to any
amount or volume as required for the desired treatment. For example, either a 1 pg or a 10
pg dose may be administered to patients undergoing an intravascular procedure, e.g., stent
implantation, in order to prevent the incidence and severity of in-stent late loss. As a
further example, the dosage may be at least 100 pg. In this regard, the formulation may be
administered as a single dose, multiple doses and/or continuously, e.g., by continuous
infusion(s) over a period of time. For example, dosages may be administered in
accordance with those described in Banai, Am Heart J. (2013), supra.
E.       Liposome Manufacturing Process
[0048]           Another aspect of the invention relates to a process of making the liposome
and liposomal formulation for commercial manufacture of the product. This
manufacturing method permits the manipulation of the physical characteristics described
above, as well as control of certain process parameters, including the water to solvent ratio,
solvent composition and solvent ratios, vesicle preparation temperature, vesicle
preparation shear rate, extrusion temperature, extrusion pressure, and extrusion membrane
size and membrane type.
[0049]           The preparation of the liposome formulation includes the steps of (1)
mixing a therapeutic agent and preselected lipids to form vesicles, (2) extruding the
vesicles in a single stage through a single-sized filter, and (3) ultrafiltration. Single-stage
filter extrusions as that phrase is used means that the extrusion step uses a single pore-size
filtration step. It may include multiple passes through the single sized filter but avoids the
need for multiple and/or sequential passes through different sized filters as is known in the
                                              -18-

prior art, e.g., passes through 1.0, 0.8, 0.6, 0.4 and 0.2 pm membranes sequentially.
Following ultrafiltration, the product may be standardized to the desired final
concentration. Because the extrusion of step (2) is performed as a single-stage extrusion
under low pressure, the present method saves operating costs and time and increases yield
over high pressure extrusions utilizing multiple stages. FIG. 1 illustrates the steps of the
manufacturing process.
[0050]            The first step comprises mixing a therapeutic agent and preselected lipid
ingredients in a solution to form vesicles. In many cases, the therapeutic agent and lipid
ingredient will be solubilized into a therapeutic agent solution and lipid ingredient solution
before mixing the two. In this embodiment, the therapeutic agent solution will have
certain physical characteristics, including a pH, osmolality and conductivity. The
therapeutic agent solution comprises the internal environment of the liposome formulation.
As such, the pH, conductivity, osmolality of the therapeutic agent solution influences the
internal pH, conductivity, osmolality of the liposomal formulation. The internal liposomal
osmolality is preferably in the range between 340-440 osmol/kg while the external
liposomal osmolality is between 270-340 osmol/kg. The pH of the solution is intended to
keep the therapeutic agent solution in the intended pH range. Thus, if an acidic therapeutic
agent is used, e.g., a bisphosphonate, a basic pH solution may be used to maintain the pH
of the solution between 6.8 to 7.0. For example, a therapeutic agent solution may be
prepared from sodium alendronate dissolved in a NaOH solution, with the resulting pH of
the alendronate solution about 6.8 and conductivity about 18.0 ms/cm. The solution may
optionally be heated during the process. In an alternate embodiment, sodium clodronate or
alendronate monohydrate may be used. The solution may be heated to a temperature that
facilitates solubilization of the bisphosphonate in the basic solvent, ranging from 550 to 75'
C, such as, for example, 700 C. Depending on the quantity of therapeutic agent and other
                                                -19-

excipients dissolved, the solution may have an osmolality - which becomes the internal
osmolality - in the range of 340-400 osmol/kg. Also depending on the amount of
therapeutic agents and excipients, the solution may have a conductivity - which becomes
the internal conductivity - in the range of 14.0-21.0 ms/cm. The internal pH, osmolality,
conductivity are factors in the stability and effectiveness of the liposomal formulation. In
one embodiment, the therapeutic agent solution concentration may be in the range of 20
120 g/L during step (1) of the manufacturing process. The therapeutic agent solution may
be prepared apart from and/or prior to the manufacturing process discussed herein.
[0051]          The lipid ingredients may be in the form of a solution containing the desired
starting amount of the lipid ingredient in a volume of one or more lipid solvent. Any
suitable lipid ingredient and lipid solvent may be used. For example, the lipid ingredients
may comprise DSPC, DSPG and cholesterol in a 3:1:2 molar ratio, respectively, prior to
liposome formation. The resultant liposome formed according to this combination of
lipids may also have a 3:1:2 molar ratio of DSPC, DSPG and cholesterol. Further, the
lipid solvent may, for example, comprise t-butanol, ethanol and water in a 77/77/6 v/v/v
ratio, respectively. Other lipid solvents usable to formulate the liposomes of the invention
include chloroform or methanol. The lipid ingredients are dissolved in the lipid solvent.
The lipid solvent may be heated to a temperature that facilitates solubilization of the lipid
ingredients, ranging from 550 to 75' C, such as, for example 700 C to generate the lipid
solution. The concentration of the dissolved lipid solution may be in the range of 50-350
g/L. The lipid solution may be prepared apart from and/or prior to the manufacturing
process discussed herein.
[0052]          The mixing of the therapeutic agent solution and the lipid solution forms
multi-lamellar vesicles (MLV). The drug:lipid ratio may be controlled by varying the
                                              -20-

amount of lipid solution or therapeutic agent solution. Mildly heating the two solutions
may optionally be used to aid in mixing the solutions together. This process results in
efficient encapsulation of the therapeutic agent into multi-lamellar vesicles. In one
example, the lipid solution may be added to a therapeutic agent solution at a 5.3 part lipid
to 1 part therapeutic agent. This ratio of lipid to drug (by weight) increases the stability of
the liposome formulation without significant compromise to delivery. Indeed, this process
permits the drug:lipid ratio to be varied in the range of 1:4 to 1:8 by weight, preferably in
the range of 1:5 to 1:6. Further, the solvent concentration may be adjusted prior to the
extrusion step without compromising the integrity of the liposome.
[0053]          The next step in the method of manufacturing the formulation comprises
extruding the vesicles in a single-stage through a single-sized filter. Extrusion of the
vesicles reduces the size of the multi-lamellar vesicles described above. The method uses
a single-extrusion step and low pressure, which produces liposomes that are highly
uniform in size and shape. The extrusion process may involve the use of a microfluidizer
or other conventional homogenizer. Homogenizers rely on shearing energy to fragment
large liposomes into smaller ones. Homogenizers suitable for use herein include
microfluidizers produced by a variety of manufacturers, for example, Microfluidics in
Boston, MA. The particle size distribution can be monitored by conventional laser beam
particle size discrimination. Extrusion of liposomes through a polycarbonate membrane or
an asymmetric ceramic membrane is an effective method for reducing liposome sizes to a
relatively well defined size distribution. The extrusion temperature is preferably above the
liposome's transient phase temperature to enable size reduction. For example, in the case
of DSPG, DSPC and cholesterol, about 550 C may be desirable. Other lipids may be used
and their known transient phase temperature is a measure of the desired temperature for
the extrusion step. Multiple passes may be required to achieve the desired vesicle size and
                                               -21-

homogeneity. Samples may be analyzed in real time to assess vesicle size as well as
bacterial count during this step.
[0054]          The extrusion step is performed in a one-stage low pressure extrusion
process technique. In the extrusion process, the MLV are processed in one stage by
extruding directly through one membrane while applying low pressure -- rather than
creating small unilamellar liposomes by multi-stage extrusions where larger liposomes are
passed through successively smaller membranes by extruders under high pressure (as
practiced in the prior art methods). In one embodiment, the one-stage extrusion process is
carried out directly with a 0.1 pm pore size polycarbonate or ceramic membrane while
applying low pressure of 60-90 psi to obtain liposomes 100 nm in size. Also, the process
uses a lower pressure of 60-90 psi, in contrast to higher pressure (up to 500 psi) of high
pressure extrusions.
[0055]          By eliminating multiple membranes and extruding under low pressure, the
process of the invention has a number of advantageous. First, the one-stage extrusion
process has the advantage of performing the extrusion process in less time than in multi
stage extrusion processes. Further, eliminating the need for high-pressure extrusions
advantageously saves the high cost associated with the high-pressure extrusion equipment.
Low pressure extruders are significantly less costly. One example of a suitable extruder
for the present invention is the LIPEXTM Extruder, available from Northern Lipids, Inc.
Moreover, the materials used for low pressure extruders, e.g., compressed air, generally
cost less than those for high pressure extruders, e.g., nitrogen. Further, the reduction of
multi-stage extrusions to a single-stage extrusion corresponds to similar reduction in waste
and higher yields.
[0056]          The last step of the instant method comprises ultrafiltration of the extruded
                                              -22-

vesicles into a buffered solution. While the extrusion process produces liposomes that are
uniform in size and shape, ultrafiltration involves applying pressure to the formulation
through a membrane in order to separate the encapsulated liposomes from the
unencapsulated therapeutic agent, solvents and lipids. This step is preferably carried out
below the transient phase temperature of the lipids used in the formulation, for example
below 450 C in most cases. Different types of filtration membranes may be used during
the ultrafiltration process. One embodiment of the ultrafiltration step uses a hollow fiber
membrane, where the formulation is pushed through the open hollow cores of the fiber,
and the micromolecules (i.e., solvent, unencapsulated bisphosphonates, lipids) are filtered
through the outer membrane of the fiber while the relatively larger liposomes remain
within the fiber. The ultrafiltration results in a formulation having greater than or equal to
96% encapsulated therapeutic agent.
[00571            The ultrafiltration step may further include a dialyzing step wherein the
formulation is dialyzed against a volume of a buffered solution. One example of a
buffered solution is a phosphate saline buffer (PBS), but any buffer containing a balance of
positive and negative ions maintained at a physiological osmolality may be used. Other
buffer additives are known in the art and may include, for example, sucrose, glycine,
sodium succinate, and/or albumin. The buffered solution preferably reflects the external
environment of the final formulation, so that the pH and conductivity of this solution may
be carefully monitored. Preferably, the buffered solution is isotonic and non-toxic to cells.
The buffered solution may be filtered to further reduce contaminants and may be prepared
in advance of the manufacturing process. The dialysis end point is marked by reaching the
desired pH and conductivity of the formulation.
[0058]            At the end of the ultrafiltration step, the formulation may optionally be
                                                  -23-

filtered for sterilization, i.e., to maintain bio-burden control. In one embodiment of the
process, a sterilization filter is connected to a pressure vessel containing the liposome
formulation. The sterilization filter is further connected to a sterile reception tank.
Applying pressure to the liposomal formulation forces the formulation through the
sterilization filter. Further, another sample may be taken for bacterial content during this
step. The sterilization filter pore size may be in the range of 0.2 to 0.45 pim. Because the
liposomes of the formulation are substantially uniform and large liposome are absent,
sterilization filtration may be performed relatively free from complication.
[0059]            Following manufacture, the formulation may be standardized. Final
standardization produces a liposome formulation batch having a standard concentration.
Standardization analyzes the yield, size, lipid composition, drug and free drug content and
concentration of the product. The concentration analysis may be performed by a method
known in the art, such as, e.g., HPLC, phosphate assay via spectrophotometer. Upon
confirming the concentration of the ultrafiltrated product, a volume of the buffered
solution is used to dilute the formulation to a standard concentration. Final standardization
also involves sterile filtration of the liposome product. For example, an encapsulated
bisphosphonate formulation following ultrafiltration may be diluted with the appropriate
amount of the buffered solution to arrive at a final concentration. Similarly, the
ultrafiltrated product may be separated into multiple batches to be used in different final
concentrations by using different amounts of the buffered solution diluent in the different
batches. A sample may be taken to determine the achieved concentration of the
therapeutic agent.
[0060]            This manufacturing process has the advantage that the physiological and
chemical features of the liposome can be controlled, monitored and reproduced. For
                                                 -24-

example, the internal pH of the liposome may be controlled by the composition of the
solution in which the therapeutic agent is dissolved. The internal osmolality may also be
similarly manipulated by varying the amount of therapeutic agent or, for example,
depending on whether it is charged or a non-charged agent. The drug:lipid ratio may be
managed by the selection of the lipid ingredients comprising the liposome or the amount of
lipids added to the dissolved active agent. Increasing the amount of lipid ingredient
decreases the drug:lipid ratio, and vice versa. A low drug:lipid ratio also lowers internal
osmolality of the liposome formulation. The external pH and external osmolality of the
composition is influenced in part by the composition of the buffered solution that contain
the final product. Conductivity may be controlled by the nature of the therapeutic agent
and other excipients encapsulated within the liposome. Other factors, including, but not
limited to viscosity, excipient quality, sterility, compatibility with saline, infusion kits and
syringes (for injectable preparations), and compatibility with processing equipment, are
also independently controllable by the process of the invention.
[0061]          In accordance with the above description, in one preferred embodiment of
the manufacturing process, the formulation is prepared by (1) mixing a solution containing
a therapeutic agent with a solution containing lipids comprising DSPC, DSPG and
cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2 to form vesicles such that the mass ratio of said
therapeutic agent to lipid is in the range of about 1:5 to 1:8, (2) extruding the vesicles in a
single stage through a filter having a pore size about 100 nm, and (3) ultrafiltrating.
[0062]          Another aspect of this invention is a liposome formulation made in
accordance with the manufacturing steps above wherein the formulation comprises DSPC,
DSPG and cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2, and the mass ratio of said therapeutic
agent to lipid is in the range of about 1:5 to 1:8 and is manufactured by the following
                                               -25-

steps: (1) mixing a solution containing a therapeutic agent with a solution containing lipid
ingredients to form vesicles, (2) extruding the vesicles in a single stage through a single
sized filter, and (3) ultrafiltrating. Following ultrafiltration, the product may be
standardized to the desired final concentration. The formulation made in accordance with
this method has a PDI less than 0.075, preferably in the range between 0.02 and 0.05. This
process produces a liposome formulation having novel and useful features as described
above, including, for example, the 3:1:2 ratio of the lipid ingredient, a drug:lipid ratio
between 1:5 to 1:8. Moreover, the individual liposomal characteristics, including, pH,
osmolality, conductivity and rigidity, may be independently controlled as outlined above.
[0063]           The following examples are intended to illustrate and exemplify the various
aspects of carrying out the present invention and are not intended to limit the invention in
any way. The invention herein is described, by way of example only, with reference to the
accompanying drawings. With specific reference now to the drawings in detail, it is
stressed that the particulars shown are by way of example and for purposes of illustrative
discussion of the preferred embodiments of the present invention only, and are presented
in the course of providing what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood
description of the principles and conceptual aspects of the invention. The description
should be considered with the drawings making apparent to those skilled in the art how the
several forms of the invention may be embodied in practice.
                  Example 1 - Liposome Formulation Batch Preparation
[0064]           In accordance with the process described above, an example batch was
prepared. Clearly the batch size may be varied, as desired for commercial production. In
this example, a one liter batch of liposomal alendronate encapsulated in liposomes
containing cholesterol, DSPC and DSPG, and dispersed in phosphate buffer saline solution
                                               -26-

was produced. Liposomal alendronate may be provided in two concentrations, for clinical
convenience: 5 mg/ml and 0.5 mg/ml, as a sterile whitish, liposomal dispersion. These
concentrations may be further formulated to obtain a desired amount of therapeutic agent
in any specific volume. The lipid ingredients were composed of cholesterol, DSPC and
DSPG. The dispersion also contained a phosphate buffer saline solution for pH control,
infusion suitability and for the maintenance of isotonicity. At least 96% of the drug in the
final product was encapsulated in the liposomes. For administration, the content of the
vial (or part of it, as needed) was diluted with saline, and then administered as an infusion.
[0065]            A batch formula that includes the amount and quality of the components
used in the manufacturing process and their amounts on a per 1 liter batch basis is
presented in Table 1 below.
      Table 1 - Liposomal Alendronate for IV Infusion, Batch Formula for 1 Liter
Component                                    Amount               Quality
Alendronate Sodium trihydrate                68-80.75 g           100.5%
NaOH                                         6.8-8.0 g            Extra pure
Cholesterol                                  10+0.2 g             >99%
DSPC                                         30+0.4 g             >99%
DSPG                                         10+0.2 g             >99%
Ethanol                                      77+1.1 ml            Absolute, extra pure
t-butanol                                    77+1.1 ml            For analysis
Water for injection                          850+13 ml            USP
                                             6+0.1 ml
PBS pH 7                                      -6000 ml
Na 2HPO 4 *2H 20                             13.86 g +1.5%        Extra pure
NaH 2PO 4 *2H 20                             6.54 g +1.5%         Extra pure
NaCl                                         50.82 g +1.5%        Extra pure
Water For Injection                          6000 ml              USP
[0066]            The contents and quantitative composition of liposomal alendronate for IV
infusion produced in the 1 liter batch of Table 1 are summarized in Table 2 below. It is
                                               -27-

noted that in this batch, the molar ratio of DSPC:DSPG:cholesterol was 3:1:2. Also, the
drug:lipid ratio was calculated to be about 1:5.7±1.5 w:w.
             Table 2 - Composition of Liposomal Alendronate for IV Infusion
 Component                                               Composition
                                                         0.5 mg/ml        5 mg/ml
 Drug substance          Sodium Alendronate              0.51_0.05 mg/ml  5.01_0.2 mg/ml
                         trihydrate
                                                         = 0.0015 mmol/ml =0.015 mmol/ml
 Liposomal lipids        Cholesterol                     0.6-0.1 mg/ml    5.2i0.8 mg/ml
                                                         =0.0015 mmol/ml  =0.013 mmol/ml
                         DSPC                            1.710.3 mg/ml    15.6512.35 mg/ml
                                                         =0.0022 mmol/ml  =0.020 mmol/ml
                         (1,2-Distearoyl-sn-glycero
                         3-phosphocholine)
                         DSPG                            0.60.1 mg/ml     5.210.8 mg/ml
                                                         =0.0007 mmol/ml  =0.006 mmol/ml
                         (1,2-Distearoyl-sn-glycero
                         3 -phospho-rac-glycerol)
 Buffer solution (pH     NaH 2PO 4 *2H 20                1.09 mg/ml       1.09 mg/ml
 7)
                         Na 2HPO 4 *2H 20                2.31 mg/ml       2.31 mg/ml
                         NaCl                            8.47 mg/ml       8.47 mg/ml
                         Water for injection (WFI)       -1 ml            -  1 ml
[00671           A liposomal alendronate formulation for IV infusion actually produced by
the novel manufacturing process described herein is presented in Table 3 below.
                      Table 3 - Specifications for 5 mg/ml Dosage Form
               Tests                         Specification
               Appearance                    Whitish dispersion
               Identification                Conforms
               Alendronate                   5.0+ 0.2 mg/mL
               Assay (HPLC)
               Alendronate                   > 96%
               Encapsulation
               DSPC                          13.3-18.0 mg/mL
                                                    -28-

               Assay (HPLC)
               DSPG                     4.4-6.0 mg/mL
               Assay (HPLC)
               Cholesterol              4.4-6.0 mg/mL
               Assay (HPLC)
               Drug: Lipid ratio (w:w)  1: 5.3+1.0
               including Cholesterol
               Vesicle Size             Mean particle diameter 80+5nm
               pH                       6.7-7.3
               Ethanol                  <0.5%
               t-Butanol                <0.5%
               Osmolality               270-340 osmol/kg
               Sterility                Sterile
               Pyrogens                 Pass
[00681           FIG. 2 represents a flow-chart summarizing the manufacturing process of 1
liter of liposomal alendronate for IV infusion for dosage strength 5 mg/ml, and its process
control parameters. The manufacturing process for the 0.5 mg/ml dosage strength is the
same as for the 5 mg/ml dosage strength. Only the final standardization step differs in
forming a different final formulation concentration for administration. The skilled person
in the art understands that other dosages may be manufactured pursuant to this process
without undue experimentation.
[0069]           The therapeutic agent solution (alendronate solution) and lipid solution
were prepared as follows:
[00701           Alendronate Solution. NaOH (6.8-8.0 g) was weighed and dissolved in
850 ml water for injection (WFI), with temperature at 70±3'C, 600±150 RPM. Complete
dissolution was verified by visual inspection. Sodium Alendronate (68 to 80.75 g) was
dissolved in the NaOH solution, with temperature at 70±3'C, stirring at 600±150 RPM.
Complete dissolution was verified by visual inspection (i.e., clear solution), conductivity
and pH measurements were verified (pH=6.8±0.3. Conductivity=18.0±1 ms/cm).
                                                -29-

[00711           Lipid Solution. Lipids comprising 30g DSPC (37.9 mmoles), 10 g DSPG
(12.5 mmoles), and 10 g cholesterol (25.8 mmoles) (DSPC/DSPG/Cholesterol; 3/1/2
mol/mol/mol) were weighed and dissolved in a 250 ml beaker on a heated magnetic stirrer
in 160 ml of t-butanol/EtOH/H 20 (77/77/6, v/v/v) at temperature of 70±3'C, forming a
lipid solution with a concentration of 312 mg/ml. A clear yellow solution was formed
once the temperature was within limits.
[0072]           MLV Formulation. The lipid solution was added to the alendronate
solution (1 part drug; 5.3 parts lipid) while mixing at 600+150 RPM and maintaining
temperature 70±3'C. After at least 5 minutes, 100 ml WFI (10% of total volume) was
added to reduce solvent concentration before extrusion. The formulation was mixed for
additional 10 minutes.
[0073]           Extrusion. The formulation was subjected to extrusion by 1.2L heated
stainless steel extruder assembled with one 0.14 pm ceramic membrane or with two
polycarbonate membranes (e.g., a 0.2 pre-filter and 0.1 pm membrane) to reduce the size
of the vesicles and improve the vesicle homogeneity at pressure=90±15 psi and
temperature=68±5C. The process required 12-18 passes to achieve vesicles of 80-100
nm. Extrusion passes were sampled in real time to verify vesicle size before ultrafiltration.
The liposome formulation size was analyzed using Malvern Nano ZS analyzer (acceptance
limits: 95±20 nm). An extrusion sample was also analyzed for aerobic bacterial count
(bio-burden control). The acceptance limit was <100 CFU/ml.
[0074]           Ultrafiltration and Diafiltration. First, the formulation was allowed to
cool to <45'C before undergoing ultrafiltration. Ultrafiltration was performed on
Amersham QuixStand system with a 500K hollow fiber membrane. The formulation was
concentrated using an inlet pressure not exceeding 25 psi. Upon reaching a minimal
                                              -30-

volume, the formulation was dialyzed with 10 initial volumes (~7L) of a phosphate buffer
saline (PBS) solution. The PBS solution was prepared by dissolving 145 mM NaCl, 13
mM Na 2HPO 4 , and 7 mM NaH 2 PO 4 in 1OL WFI. The PBS had pH about 6.9 and
conductivity about 16.9 ms/cm. The PBS was filtered through a 0.2 pm filter.
Diafiltration end was marked by measuring the pH and conductivity of the dialyzed
formulation The formulation was drained from the ultrafiltration system not exceeding
120% of initial volume (~1.2 liter). A sample was taken for general analysis and for
aerobic bacterial count (bio-burden control). The acceptance limit was <1,000 CFU/ml.
[0075]           At the end of dialysis, the formulation was filtered through 0.2 pm filter to
maintain bio-burden control. A pressure vessel containing the formulation was connected
to a sterile 0.2 pm filter (Sartorius Sartobran P). The filter was pre-assembled to a sterile
reception tank. Filtration is performed by applying pressure of 5-30 psi on the pressure
vessel. A sample was taken for general analysis and for aerobic bacterial count (bio
burden control). The acceptance limit was <100 CFU/ml.
[0076]           Final Standardization. The formulation was analyzed for size,
lipid/therapeutic agent composition in the liposome, drug and free therapeutic agent
content by HPLC. The expected yield in this example was a one liter formulation
containing about 6 mg/ml encapsulated alendronate and 35 mg/ml lipids. Based on the
results of the alendronate concentration, the required dilution was calculated to achieve
about one liter of final formulation concentration of 5 mg/ml or 0.5 mg/ml. To produce
the 5 mg/ml formulation, about 900 ml liposomal alendronate after ultrafiltration were
diluted with about 100 ml PBS, prepared as described above. Additionally, to produce the
0.5 mg/ml formulation, about 100 ml liposomal alendronate after ultrafiltration were
diluted with about 900 ml PBS for 0.5 mg/ml concentration. A sample was taken to
                                               -31-

determine the achieved concentration of alendronate.
[00771           Following the production of the standard formulation concentration, a bottle
containing the formulation was connected to two sequential sterile 0.2 pm filters (Sartorius
Sartobran P) located in a class 100 room or a sterile biological hood. The filter was pre
assembled to a pre-sterilized disposable reception bag or bottle. Filtration was performed
by a peristaltic pump or pressurized nitrogen. Pressure should not exceed 10 psi. When
filtration was ended the filter was tested for integrity.
[0078]           The liposome alendronate for IV infusion produced in the above example
had a number of desirable properties, for example (i) three year stability of at least the
alendronate and lipids at 5' (range 2-8C); (ii) average vesicle diameter of 80±5 with no
particulate matter; (iii) a concentration of alendronate sodium of up to 5 mg/ml (range 0.1
- 5.0 mg/ml); (iv) alendronate encapsulation greater than or equal to 96%; (v) lipid
composition of distearoyl phosphatidylcholine / distearoyl phosphatidylglycerol /
cholesterol (DSPC/DSPG/CHOL) of 3/1/2 mol/mol/mol; (vi) physiological osmolality of
270-340 osmol/kg, (vii) viscosity similar to water, i.e., dynamic viscosity of about 1.0 mPa
s at 200 C; (viii) pH 6.8 (range 6.8-7.0); (ix) worldwide acceptability of excipient quality
in accordance with the US or EP Pharmacopeia; (x) meets USP guidelines for sterility and
pyrogens as published in the USP 24-NF 19; (xi) compatibility (use) with saline, infusion
kits and syringes; and (xii) compatibility (process) with filters, tubing stainless steel and
glass.
[00791           FIG. 3 is a TEMS image of the liposomal alendronate manufactured in the
example above. Good homogeneity and uniformity of the liposome population was
observed, and the liposomes shown are sized between 40 and 120 nm.
                                               -32-

                          Example 2 - Liposome Rigidity Testing
[0080]          Four samples of large unilamellar liposomes (diameter approx. 100 nm)
were analyzed for rigidity. Empty liposomes dissolved in PBS made in accordance with
the present invention were labeled LPO. Liposome formulations containing 5.0 mg/ml of
alendronate made in accordance with the present invention were labeled as LSA. Two
other liposome samples, labeled KS and HU, dissolved in HEPES, were made in
accordance with the prior art method described in Epstein-Barash, Hila, et al.,
"Physicochemical parameters affecting liposomal bisphosphonates bioactivity for
restenosis therapy: Internalization, cell inhibition, activation of cytokines and
complement, and mechanism of cell death", J. Controlled Release 146 (2010) 182-195
[0081]          Each sample was analyzed for specific volume compressibility of
liposomes. Using ultrasound velocimetry, the elastic properties of the liposomes was
evaluated based on the following relationship:
where Ps, p, and u are the adiabatic compressibility, the density, and the sound velocity of
the suspension, respectively. Hianik T., Haburcak M., Lohner K., Prenner E., Paltauf F.,
Hermetter A. (1998): Compressibility and density of lipid bilayers composed of
polyunsaturated phospholipids and cholesterol, Coll. Surf. A 139, 189-197; Hianik T.,
Rybir P., Krivinek R. Petrikovi M., Milena Roudna M. Hans-Jirgen Apell, HJ. (2011):
Specific volume and compressibility of bilayer lipid membranes with incorporated Na,K
ATPase. Gen. Physiol. Biophys. 30, 145-153. Thus, by measuring the changes of sound
velocity and density, the changes of compressibility can also be determined.
                                              -33-

[00821          Ultrasound velocity was measured using a fixed-path differential
velocimeter consisting of two almost identical acoustic cavity resonators (Sarvazyan A.P.
(1991): Ultrasonic velocimetry of biological compounds, Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biophys.
Chem. 20, 321-342; Sarvazyan A.P., Chalikian T.V. (1991): Theoretical analysis of an
ultrasonic interferometer for precise measurements at high pressures, Ultrasonics 29, 119
124) operated at frequencies around 7.2 MHz. The resonance frequencies of the cells were
measured using a computer-controlled network analyzer (USAT, USA). The sample
volume was 0.7 ml. The resonator cells were equipped with magnetic stirrers to ensure
homogeneously dispersed samples during the measurements. One resonator contained the
liposome solution in a concentration 10 mg/ml in respect of phospholipids, whereas the
other one was filled with the same buffer solution (PBS or HEPES) without vesicles as
reference. When starting a series of measurements, first the resonance frequencies of both
resonators were compared by measuring both cells with identical reference liquid. As the
energy density of the sonic signal was small throughout (the pressure amplitude in the
ultrasonic wave was less than 103 Pa), any effects of the sound wave on the structural
properties of the vesicles were avoided. In general, ultrasonic velocimetry allows the
determination of the sound velocity [u] or rather its concentration-dependent increments
(Sarvazyan A.P. (1982): Development of methods of precise measurements in small
volumes of liquids, Ultrasonics 20, 151-154) as defined by the equation:
                      ul - -                                         (2)
                               uoc
where c is the solute concentration in mg/ml, and the subscript "0"refers to the solvent
(buffer). The value [u] can be directly determined from the changes of resonance
frequencies f and fo of both resonators (f is resonance frequency of the sample, and fo that
                                               -34-

of the reference - buffer):
                                       =-uf-fo
                     a]-       _      -        {                          (3)
                                uOe       fo e
(the coefficient fulfills the condition y << 1 and can be neglected in the calculations).
[00831          A high precision densitometric system (DMA 60 with two DMA 602 M
sample chambers, Anton Paar KG, Graz, Austria) operating according to the vibrating tube
principle (Kratky 0., Leopold H., Stabinger H. (1973): The determination of the partial
specific volume of proteins by the mechanical oscillator technique, In: Methods in
Enzymology (Ed. E. Grell), vol. 27, pp. 98-110, Academic Press, London) was used to
determine the density (p) of the vesicle solution. Apparent specific partial volumes (pV)
were calculated from the density data using the equation:
                                        c                  L          (4)
where the subscript 0 refers again to the reference solvent and [p] = (p-po)/(poc) denotes
the concentration increment of density. The temperature of the cells was controlled to
within ±0.02 'C with a Lauda RK 8 CS ultra-thermostat (Lauda, Germany).
[0084]          The determination of the specific volume in addition to the sound-velocity
concentration increment allowed the estimation of the reduced specific apparent
compressibility,  eK/ Po,  of the vesicles, based on the following equation:
                             -   -2[u   -   I +   29
                                                      v,                (5)
                        DPo
                                                 -35-

where po is the coefficient of the compressibility and po is the buffer density (Sarvazyan
1991). The value of PK/Po indicates the volume compressibility of the liposomes relative to
the buffer. The higher value of pK/po means higher compressibility (i.e. less rigidity) of
liposomes.
[00851           In order to determine specific volume compressibility of liposomes, the
concentration increment of ultrasound velocity, [u], and density, p, were measured. Then,
the specific volume,   eV,  and specific apparent compressibility, eK/po were  determined by
means of equations (4,5).
[0086]           FIG. 4 demonstrates that the liposomes of the present invention are
substantially rigid in comparison to other liposome formulations and empty liposomes. As
shown in FIG. 4, the specific compressibility (inverse to rigidity) of the LSA liposomes are
significantly lower than that of empty liposomes of those made by conventional prior art
formulations. The compressibility of the LSA liposomes is around 0.70, while that of the
empty liposome is around 0.90. The specific compressibility of the KS and HU liposomes
are significantly different at 0.75. This example demonstrates that mechanical properties
is sensitive to the formulation and the presence of drug inside the liposomes.
                           Example 3 - Liposome Stability Analysis
[00871           The stability of the liposome formulation made in accordance with Example
1 is exemplified in Tables 4 and 5. Table 4 demonstrates that the liposomes of the current
invention are stable when stored at 4 degrees C at least through 36 months, and the
formulation meets all required specifications.
                                              -36-

                                    Table 4 - Stability at 4 C
                     Spec            Base       1IMo     7Mo      12Mo       24Mo        36Mo
                     apacsh
                          e        conform   conform   conform   conform    conform     conform
  appearance         dispersion
     endona          0.5+0.05         0.49      0.53     0.54      0.51       0.52        0.52
    ercentage o)     >96              98%       98%        96     >98%       >99%        >99%
  DSPC (mg/ml)       1.4-2.0           1.9       1.8       2        1.6        1.8         1.8
  DSPG (mg/ml)       0.5-0.7           0.6       0.6      0.6      0.5         0.6         0.6
  Chol. (mg/ml)      0.5-0.7          0.55      0.59     0.56      0.58        0.6        0.61
  drug:lipid ratio   1:5.7+1.0        1;6.2    1;5.6     1;5.9    1; 5.3      1;5.8       1;5.8
  vesicles size      diameter        92nm      92nm      92nm     92nm       91nm        91nm
  (nm)               100+30
  pH                 6.7-7.3           6.9       6.9      6.9        7          7          6.9
  morality           270-340          309        na       317      316        312         312
[00881           Table 5 demonstrates that the liposomes of the current invention are stable
when stored at 25 degrees C at least through 7 months, and the formulation meets all
required specifications.
                                   Table 5 - Stability at 25 C
                              Spec              Base        1IMo      2Mo          7Mo
                             whitish
         appearance           dsersion        conform    conform    conform     conform
         Alendronate                             0.49       0.52      0.51         0.51
         (mg/ml)              0.500.05
         Encapsulation                          98%          98        >99          98
         Percentage (%)       >96
         DSPC (mg/ml)         1.4-2.0             1.9        1.9        1.9         1.9
         DSPG (mg/ml)         0.5-0.7            0.6         0.6       0.6          0.6
         Chol. (mg/ml)        0.5-0.7            0.55       0.59      0.58         0.57
         drug:lipid ratio     1:5.7 +1.0                                         01:06.0
                              diameter         92nm          92         92
         vesicles size        100+30                                                93
         pH                   6.7-7.3            6.9          7        6.9          6.9
         osmolality           270-340            309         na         na         315
                                               -37-

                         Example 4 - Liposome Uniformity Analysis
[0089]          The uniformity of the liposome formulation by assayed using the Malvern
Nano zs particle sizing system. This procedure determines the uniformity of the vesicle
size of liposomal formulation by Dynamic Light Scattering (DLS) and characterizes the
size distribution of particles suspended in liquid media. This technique is sensitive to
particle size distribution in the range of 10-1000 nm, and is useful for a range of particles
including liposomes emulsions, nanoparticles and synthetic polymers. The technique can
be used to provide an average diameter of a homogeneous liposome preparation, as well as
an indication of formulation heterogeneity. After standardizing the Malvern Nano-zs
particle size system pursuant to the operating instructions, liposome samples of 0.5 mg/ml
were first diluted by 1/3 in PBS. The UV Xmax 600nm of the diluted solution was
confirmed using Ultraspec 21 00pro UV/VIS Spectrophotometer. The liposome sample
was diluted again until optical density (O.D.) value of .10±0.02 is achieved. Again, the
UV kmax 600nm of the second dilution solution was confirmed have a 0.10±0.02 O.D
value. Then, 1.0-1.5 ml of the diluted sample is placed in a culture tube, and analyzed for
vesicle size by Malvern Nano-zs particle size system. Analysis is carried out at ambient
temperature (23 0 C±20 C) at fixed angle 1730, laser wavelength 633 nm. Data is
accumulated to achieve 150-500 Kcps (kilo counts per second).
[0090]          Table 6 illustrates the measurements of a formulation made in accordance
with this invention. The average liposome size is 80.41 nm, with a PDI of 0.04.
                                              -38-

                                           Table 6
                  Measurement #               Size (nm)                         PDI
                           1                    80.28                         0.042
                           2                    80.49                         0.024
                           3                    80.29                         0.052
                           4                    80.82                         0.022
                           5                    80.69                         0.041
                           6                    79.68                         0.042
                           7                    80.57                         0.043
                           8                    80.56                         0.030
                           9                    80.33                         0.028
                      Average                   80.41                          0.04
                       STDEV                    0.330                         0.010
                        RSD%                     0.41                         28.50
[0091]          HU liposomes, prior art liposomes described in Example 2 above, were
analyzed for uniformity pursuant to the above-described procedure. The Z-Average size of
the HU liposomes was 176.5 nm.
[0092]          FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrate the size distribution of the liposomes made in
accordance with this invention and HU liposomes, respectively. FIG. 5A shows that the
liposome formulation of the invention have a mean diameter approximately 88 nm, and the
diameter size tightly ranges from 69 to 107 nm. In contrast, FIG. 5B shows that the HU
liposome formulation have a mean diameter around 201 nm, with liposomes having
diameters from as low as 80 nm to as large as 500 nm. The PDI of the formulation in FIG.
5A was 0.025. The PDI of the HU formulation of FIG. 5B was 0.118.
[00931          The contents of all published articles, books, reference manuals, and
abstracts as cited herein, are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety to more
                                             -39-

fully describe the state of the art to which the invention pertains.
[0094]          As various changes can be made in the above-described subject matter
without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention, it is intended that all
subject matter contained in the above description, or defined in the appended claims, be
interpreted as descriptive and illustrative of the present invention. Many modifications and
variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings.
                                               -40-

                                                    41
Claims
1.     A liposome having a lipid ingredient and encapsulating a therapeutic agent, having a
       mass ratio of said therapeutic agent to lipid of about 1:5 to 1:8, wherein the lipid
       ingredient comprises DSPC, DSPG and cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2, and
       said liposome has compressibility less than 0.70 ml/g
2.     The liposome of claim 1, wherein the liposome is negatively charged.
3.     The liposome of claim 1, wherein the liposome has osmolality internal to the liposome in
       the range of 340-440 osmol/kg.
4.     The liposome of claim 1, wherein the liposomes has conductivity internal to the liposome
       in the range of 13.5-17.5 ms/cm.
5.     The liposome of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic agent is a bisphosphonate.
6.     The liposome of claim 5, having a bisphosphonate concentration range of 0.5 to 5 mg/ml
       within the liposome.
7.     The liposome of claim 1, wherein the liposome has an internal liposomal pH of about 6.9.
8.     A formulation comprising a plurality of liposomes, said liposomes having a lipid
       ingredient and a therapeutic agent, wherein the lipid ingredient comprises DSPC, DSPG
       and cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2, and the formulation having a PDI less than
       0.07.
9.     The formulation of claim 8, wherein the liposomes are negatively charged.
10.    The formulation of claim 8, wherein the liposomes have osmolality internal to the
       liposome in the range of 340-440 osmol/kg.

                                               42
11. The formulation of claim 8, wherein the liposomes have conductivity internal to the
    liposome in the range of 13.5-17.5 ms/cm.
12. The formulation of claim 8, wherein the liposomes have an average size about 80±5 nm.
13. The formulation of claim 8, wherein the therapeutic agent is a bisphosphonate.
14. The formulation of claim 13, having a bisphosphonate concentration range of 0.5 to 5
    mg/ml within the liposome.
15. The formulation of claim 8, where at least 96% of the therapeutic agent within said
    formulation is encapsulated.
16. The formulation of claim 8, having a mass ratio of said therapeutic agent to the said lipid
    ingredient of about 1:5 to 1:8.
17. The formulation of claim 8, having an internal liposomal pH of about 6.9
18. The formulation of claim 8, wherein the liposomes have compressibility no greater than
    0.70 ml/g.
19. The formulation of claim 8, wherein the PDI is between 0.02 and 0.05.
20. A method of manufacturing a therapeutic formulation having a plurality of liposomes,
    said method comprising the following steps:
    (a) mixing a solution containing a therapeutic agent with a solution containing lipids
    comprising DSPC, DSPG and cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2 to form vesicles
    such that the mass ratio of said therapeutic agent to lipid is in the range of about 1:5 to
    1:8,
    (b) extruding the vesicles in a single stage through a filter having a pore size about 100

                                               43
    nm, and
    (c) ultrafiltrating the vesicles.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of: (d) diluting the formulation with
    phosphate buffer saline solution to form a final concentration of therapeutic agent of the
    therapeutic formulation.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the therapeutic formulation has a pH about 6.9.
23. The method of claim 20, wherein said lipid solvent comprise ethanol, t-butanol and
    water.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the volume ratio of ethanol, t-butanol and water is
    77/77/6.
25. The method of claim 20, where the extrusion of step (b) is carried out between 550 - 750
    C.
26. The method of claim 20, where the extrusion of step (b) is performed under a pressure
    between 60-90 psi.
27. The method of claim 20, wherein the extrusion of step (b) is repeated 10-18 times before
    ultrafiltration.
28. A formulation comprising a plurality of liposomes comprised of an amount of lipid
    ingredient and therapeutic agent, said lipid ingredient comprising DSPC, DSPG and
    cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2, and the mass ratio of said therapeutic agent to
    lipid is in the range of about 1:5 to 1:8, said formulation manufactured by the following
    steps:

                                                  44
    (a) mixing a solution containing a therapeutic agent with a solution containing lipids
    comprising DSPC, DSPG and cholesterol in a molar ratio of about 3:1:2 to form vesicles
    such that the mass ratio of said thereapeutic agent to lipid is in the range of about 1:5 to
    1:8,
    (b) extruding the vesicles in a single stage through a filter having a pore size about 100
    nm, and
    (c) ultrafiltrating the vesicles.
29. The formulation of claim 28, further formed with the step of: (d) diluting the formulation
    with phosphate buffer saline solution to form a final concentration of said formulation.
30. The formulation of claim 28, wherein the formulation has a pH about 6.9.
31. The formulation of claim 28, wherein said lipid solvent comprise ethanol, t-butanol and
    water.
32. The formulation of claim 31, where the volume ratio of ethanol, t-butanol and water is
    77/77/6.
33. The formulation of claim 28, where the extrusion of step (b) is carried out between 550
    750 C.
34. The formulation of claim 28, where the extrusion of step (b) is performed under a
    pressure between 60-90 psi.
35. The formulation of claim 28, where the extrusion of step (b) is repeated 10-18 before
    ultrafiltration.
36. The formulation of claim 28, where the formulation has a PDI less than 0.07.

<removed-date>
                                          1/5
                                       FIG. 1
<removed-apn>
                  Therapeutic Agent
                      Solution                            Lipid Solution
                                      Vesicle Formation
              Buffered
              Solution                    Extrusion
                                        Ultrafiltration

<removed-date>
                                                              2/5
                                                          FIG. 2
                          Alendronate Solution                                       Lipid Solution
                         1 l Glass jacketed reactor                                   Weigh Lipid
                        Dissolve 6.8 to 8.0 g NAOH                            30g DSPC (37.9 mmoles)
<removed-apn>
                           In 850 ml WFI, 70 C                                10g DSPG (12.5 mmoles)
                                                                            10g Cholesterol (25.8 mmoles)
                    Add 68 to 80.75 g Alendronate (100                      Total - 50g lipid (76.2 mmoles)
                               mg/ml), 70 C
                                                                           Dissolve lipids in 160 ml solvent
                                                                         (77/77/6; v/v/v EtOH/t-butanol/H2O)
                                                                                        at 700C
                                                                                     (312 mg/ml)
                                                            Vesicle Formation
                                            Add dissolved Lipids at 70 C to 850 ml alendronate
                                                      solution at 70 C while stirring
                                                   Wait 5 minutes and add 100ml WFI
                                                       Wait for another 10 minutes
                                                                 Extrusion
                                                               1.2L extruder
                                           Extrude vesicles by passing 12-18 times 0.14 µm pore
                                              size ceramic membrane or a couple of 0.2/0.1µm
                                           polycarbonate membranes to achieve 80-100nm ULVs
                                                               68±5 C 90psi.
                      PBS Preparation                                         Ultrafiltration
               Dissolve 145 mM NaCl/13 mM                  Remove solvent, lipids residuals and un-encapsulated
              Na2HPO4/7 mM NaH2PO4 in 10L                   drug by diafiltering extruded formulation with 10
                WFI. pH 6.9, Conductivity                                 volumes (~7L) of PBS.
                          16.9ms/cm                        Filter Vesicles by Sartorius Sartobran P 0.2µm filter
                 Filter through 0.2µm filter
                                                                          Standardization
                                                              Dilute formulation with PBS buffer to final
                                                            concentration of 5mg/ml or 0.5 mg/ml Sodium
                                                           Alendronate, respectively. Sterile Filter Vesicles
                                                          by two sequential Sartorius Sartobran 0.2µm filters
                                                                                <10psi

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
   FIG. 3         3/5

<removed-apn>      <removed-date>
       FIG. 4          4/5

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/5
      FIG. 5B                       FIG. 5A

