MICROWAVE ABLATION SYSTEM WITH USER-CONTROLLED
ABLATION SIZE AND METHOD OF USE
ABSTRACT
        A system (100) for planning an ablation procedure, the system (100) comprising: a
display (210) configured to display a user interface, the user interface configured to receive from
a user a user-selectable ablation shape and at least one probe parameter; and a controller coupled
to the display and configured to: select at least one ablation probe (112) from a plurality of
ablation probes (112) suitable for forming an ablation volume corresponding to the user
selectable ablation shape based on the at least one probe parameter; and control the display (210)
to preview a selected at least one ablation probe (112).

                                                     1
MICROWAVE ABLATION SYSTEM WITH USER-CONTROLLED
ABLATION SIZE AND METHOD OF USE
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the
entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing energy to biological
tissue and, more particularly, to systems and methods for enabling user selection of the size and
shape of a microwave energy field used in a surgical procedure.
BACKGROUND OF RELATED ART
[0003] Energy-based tissue treatment is well known in the art. Various types of energy (e.g.,
electrical, ultrasonic, microwave, cryogenic, thermal, laser, etc.) are applied to tissue to achieve
a desired result. Electrosurgery involves application of high radio frequency electrical current to
a surgical site to cut, ablate, coagulate or seal tissue. In monopolar electrosurgery, a source or
active electrode delivers radio frequency energy from the electrosurgical generator to the tissue
and a return electrode carries the current back to the generator. In monopolar electrosurgery, the
source electrode is typically part of the surgical instrument held by the surgeon and applied to
the tissue to be treated. A patient return electrode is placed remotely from the active electrode
to carry the current back to the generator. In tissue ablation electrosurgery, the radio frequency
energy may be delivered to targeted tissue by an antenna or probe.
[0004] In the case of tissue ablation, a high radio frequency energy in the range of about 300
mHz to about 300 gHz is applied to a targeted tissue site to create an ablation volume, which
may have a particular size and shape. The particular type of tissue ablation procedure may
dictate a particular ablation volume in order to achieve the desired surgical outcome. By way of
example, and without limitation, a spinal ablation procedure may call for a longer, more narrow
ablation volume, whereas in a prostate ablation procedure, a more spherical ablation volume
may be required.

                                                  2
[0005] The ablation volume may be affected by various factors, including without limitation,
probe construction, antenna size and shape, frequency, energy level, energy delivery method,
and duration of energy delivery. Conventionally, a surgeon must rely upon professional
experience and published specifications to select an ablation probe and related electrosurgical
parameters with which to achieve a desired ablation volume for a particular patient.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0006] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the above disadvantages.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] According to the present invention, there is provided a system for planning an ablation
procedure, the system comprising:
       a display configured to display a user interface, the user interface configured to receive
from a user a user-selectable ablation shape and at least one probe parameter; and
       a controller coupled to the display and configured to:
                select at least one ablation probe from a plurality of ablation probes suitable for
       forming an ablation volume corresponding to the user-selectable ablation shape based on
       the at least one probe parameter; and
                control the display to preview a selected at least one ablation probe.
[0008] There is also disclosed herein a system for planning an ablation procedure, the system
comprising:
       a plurality of ablation probes; and
       a generator configured to couple to at least one of the plurality of ablation probes, the
generator including:
                a generator module configured to generate energy suitable for ablating tissue;
                a display configured to display a user interface, the user interface configured to
       receive a user-selectable ablation shape and at least one probe parameter; and
                a processor configured to select at least one of the plurality of ablation probes
       suitable for forming an ablation volume corresponding to the user-selectable ablation

                                                     3
         shape based on the at least one probe parameter, the processor being further configured
         to signal the display to preview the at least one selected ablation probe.
[0009] There is also disclosed herein a method for planning an ablation procedure, the method
comprising:
       displaying a user interface configured to receive a user-selectable ablation shape and at
least one probe parameter;
       selecting at least one of a plurality of ablation probes suitable for forming an ablation
volume corresponding to the user-selectable ablation shape based on the at least one probe
parameter; and
       signaling a display to preview the at least one selected ablation probe.
[0010] There is also disclosed herein a method for computer-assisted planning for a surgical
ablation procedure, comprising the steps of:
       receiving patient image data;
       displaying at least one image based on the patient image data on a user interface;
       receiving an ablation shape selection user input;
       displaying a selected ablation shape on the user interface; and
       displaying at least one other ablation parameter related to the selected ablation shape on
the user interface.
[0011] Preferably, the patient image data is selected from the group consisting of x-rays,
ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) scans, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and
combinations thereof.
[0012] Preferably, the at least one other parameter is selected from the group consisting of a
probe diameter, a frequency, an ablation length, an ablation diameter, a temporal coefficient, a
shape metric, a frequency metric, and combinations thereof.
[0013] Preferably, the selected ablation shape is displayed over the at least one image.
[0014] Preferably, the selected ablation shape is displayed as a three dimensional graphic
rendering.

                                                  4
[0015] Preferably, the ablation shape is displayed as part of a probe image.
[0016] Preferably, the at least one image is displayed as a three dimensional image and the
selected ablation shape is superimposed over the at least one image.
[0017] Preferably, the method further comprises rotating the at least one image including the
selected ablation shape in response to an actuation by a user of a rotational interface of the user
interface.
[0018] There is further disclosed herein a system for computer-assisted planning for a surgical
ablation procedure, comprising:
        a processor; and
        a display operably coupled to the processor and controllable by the processor to display a
user interface including at least one image based on patient image data, a user selected ablation
shape, and at least one other ablation parameter related to the user selected ablation shape.
[0019] There is still further disclosed herein a computer-readable medium storing a set of
programmable instructions configured execution by at least one processor for performing a
method for computer-assisted planning of a surgical ablation procedure, the instructions
comprising the steps of:
        receiving patient image data;
        displaying a user interface including at least one image based on the patient image data;
        receiving an ablation shape selection user input;
        displaying a selected ablation shape on the user interface; and
        displaying at least one other ablation parameter related to the selected ablation shape on
the user interface.
[0020] The present disclosure provides an electromagnetic surgical ablation system having a
generator assembly that includes generator module that is configured to provide radiofrequency
surgical energy, such as electrosurgical or microwave energy. A processor is included in the
generator assembly that is operably coupled to the generator module and a user interface. The
user interface may include a graphic touchscreen display, as well as switches and illuminated
indicators. The user interface displays a graphical representation of a surgical instrument, such
as without limitation a microwave antenna probe. The graphical representation includes an
image corresponding to the instrument's radiating field, such as without limitation an antenna

                                                 5
probe ablation pattern. The disclosed system includes a database in operable communication
with the processor that is adapted to store probe parameters corresponding to at least one
antenna probe. A user, typically a surgeon, may then use the user interface to graphically view
various probe parameters stored within the database, and thereby choose an appropriate
instrument (e.g., ablation probe) with which to perform a surgical procedure. In an embodiment,
a shape selection user interface element is provided to receive a shape selection input, which
may reflect the surgeon's choice of instrument. In an embodiment, an identifier within the
selected probe is recognized by the generator assembly to confirm the actual probe used by the
surgeon corresponds to the selected probe.
[0021] In some embodiments, a three-dimensional view of a probe and an ablation pattern
corresponding thereto is displayed on the user interface. A rotation user interface element may
be provided by the user interface, wherein rotation the user interface element is configured to
accept an input which causes the user interface to rotate the displayed three dimensional view.
In some embodiments, a temporal user interface element is provided by the user interface that is
configured to accept a temporal user input which, in response thereto, causes the graphical
display to present an animation representative of a change in a probe parameter with respect to
time.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0022] Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0023] Fig. 1 shows a diagram of a microwave ablation system having a microwave antenna
assembly in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0024] Fig. 2 shows a diagram of a microwave ablation system that includes a user interface for
displaying and controlling ablation patterns in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0025] Fig. 3 is a block diagram of a microwave ablation system in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[0026] Fig. 4A shows a user interface in accordance with the present disclosure wherein a side
view of a first ablation pattern is displayed;

                                                 6
[0027] Fig. 4B shows a user interface in accordance with the present disclosure wherein a side
view of a second ablation pattern is displayed;
[0028] Fig. 4C shows a user interface in accordance with the present disclosure wherein an
oblique view of a second ablation pattern is displayed;
[0029] Fig. 4D shows a user interface in accordance with the present disclosure wherein an axial
view of a second ablation pattern is displayed;
[0030] Fig. 5A is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation diameter, time, and power with respect to a 12 gauge, 915 mHz choked wet
tip dipole ablation probe;
[0031] Fig. 5B is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation shape, time, and power with respect to a 12 gauge, 915 mHz choked wet tip
dipole ablation probe;
[0032] Fig. 6A is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation diameter, time, and power with respect to a 12 gauge, 2450 mHz choked
wet tip dipole ablation probe;
[0033] Fig. 6B is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation shape, time, and power with respect to a 12 gauge, 2450 mHz choked wet
tip dipole ablation probe;
[0034] Fig. 7A is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation diameter, time, and power with respect to a 14 gauge, 915 mHz choked wet
tip dipole ablation probe;
[0035] Fig. 7B is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation shape, time, and power with respect to a 14 gauge, 915 mHz choked wet tip
dipole ablation probe;

                                                   7
[0036] Fig. 8A is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation diameter, time, and power with respect to a 14 gauge, 2450 mHz choked
wet tip dipole ablation probe; and
[0037] Fig. 8B is a graph in accordance with the present disclosure illustrating a relationship
between an ablation shape, time, and power with respect to a 14 gauge, 2450 mHz choked wet
tip dipole ablation probe.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0038] Particular embodiments of the present disclosure will be described hereinbelow with
reference to the accompanying drawings; however, it is to be understood that the disclosed
embodiments are merely exemplary of the disclosure, which may be embodied in various forms.
Well-known functions or constructions are not described in detail to avoid obscuring the present
disclosure in unnecessary detail. Therefore, specific structural and functional details disclosed
herein are not to be interpreted as limiting, but merely as a basis for the claims and as a
representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure
in virtually any appropriately detailed structure.
[0039] In the drawings and in the descriptions that follow, the term "proximal," as is traditional,
shall refer to the end of the instrument that is closer to the user, while the term "distal" shall
refer to the end that is farther from the user.
[0040] Fig. 1 shows an embodiment of a microwave ablation system 100 in accordance with the
present disclosure. The microwave ablation system 100 includes a microwave antenna probe
112 connected by a cable 115 to connector 116, which may further operably connect the antenna
probe 112 to a generator assembly 200 configured to provide, e.g., microwave or RF energy in a
range of about 915 mHz to about 2450 mHz. Antenna probe 112, as shown, is a dipole
microwave antenna assembly, but other antenna assemblies, e.g., choked, wet-tip, monopole or
leaky wave antenna assemblies, may also utilize the principles set forth herein.
[0041] In greater detail, Fig. 2 illustrates a microwave ablation system 100 in accordance with
the present disclosure.    The disclosed system includes an actuator 120, which may be a
footswitch, a handswitch, a bite-activated switch, or any other suitable actuator. Actuator 120 is
operably coupled by a cable 122 via connector 118 to generator assembly 200. Cable 122 may

                                                    8
include one or more electrical conductors for conveying an actuation signal from actuator 120 to
generator assembly 200. In an embodiment, actuator 120 is operably coupled to generator
assembly 200 by a wireless link, such as without limitation, a radiofrequency or infrared link.
At least one additional or alternative microwave antenna probe 112' may be included with
microwave ablation system 100 that may have characteristics distinct from that of microwave
antenna probe 112. For example without limitation, microwave antenna probe 112 may be a 12
gauge probe suitable for use with energy of about 915 mHz, while microwave antenna probe
112' may be a 14 gauge probe suitable for use with energy of about 915 mHz. Other probe
variations are contemplated within the scope of the present disclosure, for example without
limitation, a 12 gauge operable at 2450 mHz, and a 14 gauge operable at 2450 MHz. In use, the
user, typically a surgeon, may interact with user interface 205 to preview operational
characteristics of available probes 112, 112' et seq., and to choose a probe for use in accordance
with surgical requirements.
[0042] Generator assembly 200 includes a generator module 286 in operable communication
with processor 282 that is configured as a source of RF and/or microwave energy. In an
embodiment, generator module 286 is configured to provide energy of about 915 mHz.
Generator module 286 may also be configured to provide energy of about 2450 mHz (2.45 gHz.)
The present disclosure contemplates embodiments wherein generator module 286 is configure to
generate a frequency other than about 915 mHz or about 2450 mHz, and embodiments wherein
generator module is configured to generate variable frequency energy. Probe 112 is operably
coupled to an energy output of generator module 286.
[0043] Actuator 120 is operably coupled to processor 282 via user interface 210. In
embodiments, actuator 120 may be operably coupled to processor, and/or to generator 286 by a
cable connection, or a wireless connection.
[0044] Generator assembly 200 also includes user interface 205, that may include a display 210
such as, without limitation, a flat panel graphic LCD display, adapted to visually display at least
one user interface element 230, 240. In an embodiment, display 210 includes touchscreen
capability (not explicitly shown), e.g., the ability to receive input from an object in physical
contact with the display, such as without limitation a stylus or a user's fingertip, as will be
familiar to the skilled practitioner. A user interface element 230, 240 may have a corresponding
active region, such that, by touching the screen within the active region associated with the user

                                                   9
interface element, an input associated with the user interface element is received by the user
interface 205.
[0045] User interface 205 may additionally or alternatively include one or more controls 220,
that may include without limitation a switch (e.g., pushbutton switch, toggle switch, slide
switch) and/or a continuous actuator (e.g., rotary or linear potentiometer, rotary or linear
encoder.) In an embodiment, a control 220 has a dedicated function, e.g., display contrast,
power on/off, and the like. Control 220 may also have a function which may vary in accordance
with an operational mode of the ablation system 100. A user interface element 230 may be
positioned substantially adjacently to control 220 to indicate the function thereof. Control 220
may also include an indicator, such as an illuminated indicator (e.g., a single- or variably
colored LED indicator.)
[0046] Turning now to Fig. 3, generator assembly 200 includes a processor 282 that is operably
coupled to user interface 210. A storage device 288 is operably coupled to processor 282, and
may include random-access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), and/or non-volatile
memory (NV-RAM, Flash, and disc-based storage.) Storage device 288 may include a set of
program instructions executable on processor 282 for executing a method for displaying and
controlling ablation patterns in accordance with the present disclosure. Generator assembly 200
may include a data interface 290 that is configure to provide a communications link to an
external device 291. In an embodiment, data interface 290 may be any of a USB interface, a
memory card slot (e.g., SD slot), and/or a network interface (e.g., 100BaseT Ethernet interface
or an 802.11 "WiFi" interface.) External device 291 may be any of a USB device (e.g., a
memory stick), a memory card (e.g., an SD card), and/or a network-connected device (e.g.,
computer or server.) Generator assembly 200 may also include a database 284 that is
configured to store and retrieve probe data, e.g., parameters associated with one or more probes
112. Parameters stored in database 284 in connection with a probe may include, but are not
limited to, probe identifier, a probe diameter, a frequency, an ablation length, an ablation
diameter, a temporal coefficient, a shape metric, and/or a frequency metric. In an embodiment,
ablation pattern topology may be included in database 284, e.g., a wireframe model of a probe
112 and/or an ablation pattern associated therewith.
[0047] Database 284 may also be maintained at least in part by data provided by external device
291 via data interface 290. For example without limitation, probe data may be uploaded from

                                                 10
an external device 291 to database 284 via data interface 290. Additionally or alternatively,
probe data may be manipulated, e.g., added, modified, or deleted, in accordance with data and/or
instructions stored on external device 291. In an embodiment, the set of probe data represented
in database 284 is automatically synchronized with corresponding data contained in external
device 291 in response to external device 291 being coupled (e.g., physical coupling and/or
logical coupling) to data interface 290.
[0048] Processor 282 is programmed to enable a user, via user interface 205 and/or display 210,
to view at least one ablation pattern and/or other probe data corresponding to a probe 112 et seq.
For example, a surgeon may determine that a substantially spherical ablation pattern is
necessary. The surgeon may activate a "select ablation shape" mode of operation for generator
assembly 200, preview a number of probes by reviewing graphically and textually presented
data on display 210, optionally or alternatively manipulate a graphic image by, for example,
rotating the image, and to select an appropriate probe 112 et seq. based upon displayed
parameters. The selected probe may then be coupled to generator assembly 200 for use
therewith. In an embodiment, probe 112 may include an identifier (not explicitly shown) that
provides an identification signal to generator assembly 200 to facilitate confirmation that a
particular probe 112 of the selected type is coupled to generator assembly 200.
[0049] In an embodiment, a surgeon may input via user interface 205 a probe parameter to
cause generator assembly 200 to present at least one probe corresponding thereto. For example,
a surgeon may require a 3.0 cm diameter ablation pattern, and provide an input corresponding
thereto. In response, the generator assembly 200 may preview a corresponding subset of
available probes that match or correlate to the inputted parameter.
[0050] Turning now to Figs. 4A-4D, generator assembly 200 provides a user interface 210
which may present a probe image 302. Probe image 302 may be a three dimensional (e.g., 3D)
graphic rendering of the characteristics of probe 112 that are stored in database 284. Probe
image 302 may be rendered using any suitable rendering technique, such as wire-frame
projections and/or ray-tracing. User interface 210 provides a select ablation shape indicator 303,
which may be a graphic icon or a textual command, that informs the user that generator
assembly 200 is in a probe selection mode (e.g., probe select and/or ablation shape selection
mode). A shape selection user interface element 305, 306 may be provided for receiving a
shape selection user input thereby enabling a user to choose an ablation shape from among one

                                                  11
of a set of ablation shapes and/or probes stored in database 282. A probe designation 301 (e.g.,
probe name) may be displayed. As seen in Fig. 4A, a shape selection user interface element 305,
306 may include a graphic icon, such as without limitation, an arrowhead, and/or may include
textual commands, such as "previous" or "next."
[0051] Additional parameters 307 of one or more displayed probes 112 may be presented on
display 210, which may include probe diameter, frequency, ablation length, ablation diameter,
and/or shape metric. A shape metric is defined as a minimum ablation diameter expressed as a
percentage of a maximum ablation diameter, e.g., 100(dmin/dmax), where dmin is a minimum
ablation diameter and dmax is a maximum ablation diameter.
[0052] By actuating a shape selection icon, a user may cause display 210 to depict
characteristics of a different probe 112 as stored in database 282. For example, as shown in Fig.
4B, a user has made a shape selection by activating a shape selection user interface element 305,
306, causing an characteristics of an alternative probe 302' to be displayed. The corresponding
user interface elements are updated accordingly, such that, as seen in Fig. 4B, the corresponding
probe designation 301', probe image 302'; and additional parameters 307' correctly reflect
characteristics of the currently-displayed probe.
[0053] As shown in Figs. 4C and 4D, the user may activate a rotate ablation image mode of
display for generator assembly 200 wherein a rotation user interface element 312, 314 may be
used to display alternate probe image views 302", 302'      in response to receiving a rotation user
input. In an embodiment, rotation user interface element 312, 314 may be a hidden and/or
invisible region of display 210, permitting the user to cause the probe image 302' to be rotated
by, for example, wiping a fingertip on the display 210 (e.g., gesturing) to indicate the direction
and axis of rotation. Rotation user interface element 312, 314 may be visible and include
arrowheads 311, 313, 315, 316 to denote upward rotation, downward rotation, left rotation, and
right rotation, respectively, of probe image 302'.
[0054] In an embodiment, at least one patient image, e.g., ultrasound, CT scan, MRI, and the
like, (not explicitly shown) may be presented on display 210 over which a displayed probe 302
is superimposed thereupon to enable the user to visualize an ablation pattern of a probe 302 in
situ with surrounding tissue. The patient image may be a 3D image and responsive to an input
received by rotation user interface element 312, 314, such that the patient image and displayed

                                                   12
probe 302 rotate together in a substantially synchronized manner to enable a user to visualize the
relationship of the probe 302, ablation pattern thereof and surrounding tissue from a plurality of
viewing angles.
[0055] A temporal user interface element (not explicitly shown) may be provided to enable a
user to view changes in an ablation pattern over time. Temporal user interface element may
include, for example, a slider, which may be positioned at a desired point along a time scale to
view an ablation pattern corresponding thereto. In an embodiment, actuation of a temporal user
interface element may cause an animated depiction of an ablation pattern to be displayed. Such
animation may be displayed in real-time, slower than real-time, or faster than real-time.
[0056] A user may confirm a probe choice by activating an accept selection user interface
element 308, or exit a probe selection mode without making a selection by activating a cancel
selection user interface element 309.
[0057] Turning now to Figs. 5A, 5B, 6A, 6C, 7A, 7D, 8A, and 8B, examples of measures
minimum ablation diameter and shape metric are shown with respect to probe diameter and
operating frequency. Fig. 5A illustrates a relationship between an ablation diameter, time, and
power of a 12 gauge diameter, 915 mHz choked wet tip dipole ablation probe. Fig. 5B is a
graph illustrating a relationship between an ablation shape, time, and power of a 12 gauge, 915
mHz choked wet tip dipole ablation probe. Fig. 6A illustrates a relationship between an ablation
diameter, time, and power of a 12 gauge diameter, 2450 mHz choked wet tip dipole ablation
probe. Fig. 6B is a graph illustrating a relationship between an ablation shape, time, and power
of a 12 gauge, 2450 mHz choked wet tip dipole ablation probe. Fig. 7A illustrates a relationship
between an ablation diameter, time, and power with respect to a 14 gauge, 915 mHz choked wet
tip dipole ablation probe. Fig. 7B is a graph illustrating a relationship between an ablation
shape, time, and power with respect to a 14 gauge, 915 mHz choked wet tip dipole ablation
probe. Fig. 8A depicts a relationship between an ablation diameter, time, and power with
respect to a 14 gauge, 2450 mHz choked wet tip dipole ablation probe. Fig. 8B shows a
relationship between an ablation shape, time, and power with respect to a 14 gauge, 2450 mHz
choked wet tip dipole ablation probe.
[0058] While several embodiments of the disclosure have been shown in the drawings and/or
discussed herein, it is not intended that the disclosure be limited thereto, as it is intended that the

                                                  13
disclosure be as broad in scope as the art will allow and that the specification be read likewise.
Therefore, the above description should not be construed as limiting, but merely as
exemplifications of particular embodiments. Those skilled in the art will envision other
modifications within the scope and spirit of the disclosure herein.

                                                   14
CLAIMS
1.      A system for planning an ablation procedure, the system comprising:
        a display configured to display a user interface, the user interface configured to receive
from a user a user-selectable ablation shape and at least one probe parameter; and
        a controller coupled to the display and configured to:
                 select at least one ablation probe from a plurality of ablation probes suitable for
        forming an ablation volume corresponding to the user-selectable ablation shape based on
        the at least one probe parameter; and
                 control the display to preview a selected at least one ablation probe.
2.      The system according to claim 1, further comprising:
        a storage device coupled to the controller and configured to store a database of a plurality
of probe parameters.
3.      The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one probe parameter is selected
from the group consisting of a probe diameter, a frequency, an ablation dimension, and a
temporal coefficient.
4.      The system according to claim 2, further comprising:
        a data interface coupled to the storage device, the data interface configured to couple to
an external device storing an updated plurality of probe parameters.
5.      The system according to claim 4, wherein the data interface is further configured to
automatically synchronize the database with the updated plurality of probe parameters.
6.      The system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface includes a rotation user
interface element configured to rotate the user-selectable ablation shape.
7.      The system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface includes a temporal user
interface element configured to display an animated depiction of the user-selectable ablation
shape.
8.      The system according to claim 7, wherein the temporal user interface element includes a
user-adjustable slider corresponding to a time scale of the animated depiction.

                                                 15
9.     The system according to claim 1, further comprising:
       a generator configured to output electrosurgical energy for ablating tissue, the generator
coupled to the controller.
10.    The system according to claim 9, further comprising:
       a plurality of ablation probes coupled to the generator and configured to ablate tissue.
                                          Covidien LP
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
