              PORTABLE PLATFORM FOR NETWORKED COMPUTING
ABSTRACT
        In one embodiment, a portable, networked, computing device comprises a processor, a
plurality of radios, and a memory. The device may be operable to pair, by at least one of the
radios, with a device associated with a user. The device may then monitor, by one of the
radios, a signal for a connection established with a first network.         When the device
determines that the signal for the first network has dropped below a threshold level of quality,
it may enable access point mode for at least one of the paired devices by turning on a radio to
establish a connection with a second network and thereby providing connectivity to the
second network for the at least one of the paired devices. If multiple networks are available,
the device may select an optimal network based on an assessment of one or more factors.

                 "NN
  '..............N.
                                     .................. -NN~
                                                                       .'..........................
                                                                ...............
                        ..................................
220'                 PN)      pars         t~h             nK~e     dvo.

                                                 1
          PORTABLE PLATFORM FOR NETWORKED COMPUTING
RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [1]     This application is related to US Patent Application Serial No. 61/801,526
filed on 15 March 2013, US Patent Application Serial No. 13/914,563 filed on 10 June 2013,
International Application No. PCT/US2014/024793 entitled "Portable platform for networked
computing" and filed on 12 March 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent
Application No. 2014235382 entitled "Portable platform for networked computing" and filed
on 12 March 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is
incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
        [2]     This disclosure generally relates to networked computing devices.
BACKGROUND
        [3]     A social-networking system, which may include a social-networking website,
may enable its users (such as persons or organizations) to interact with it and with each other
through it. The social-networking system may, with input from a user, create and store in the
social-networking system a user profile associated with the user.       The user profile may
include demographic infonnation, communication-channel information, and information on
personal interests of the user. The social-networking system may also, with input from a
user, create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social
networking system, as well as provide services (e.g., wall posts, photo-sharing, event
organization, messaging, games, or advertisements) to facilitate social interaction between or
among users.
        [4]     The social-networking system may send over one or more networks content or
messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may
also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for
accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social-networking system. The
social-networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a
user, such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

                                                 2
         [5]    A mobile computing device - such as a smartphone, tablet computer, or laptop
computer - may include functionality for determining its location, direction, or orientation,
such as a GPS receiver, compass, altimeter, accelerometer, or gyroscope. Such a device may
also include functionality for wireless communication over any conventional technology,
such as, by way of example and not limitation, BLUETOOTH, near-field communication
(NFC), radio frequency (e.g., RFID), infrared (IR), Wi-Fi, pager, or cellular (e.g., 2G, 3G,
4G).    Such a device may also include one or more cameras, scanners, touchscreens,
microphones,     or speakers.      Mobile computing      devices may also execute software
applications, such as games, web browsers, or social-networking applications.       With social
networking applications, users may connect, communicate, and share information with other
users in their social networks.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
         [6]    In a first aspect, the present disclosure provides a portable computing device
comprising:
        a processor;
        a plurality of radios; and
        a memory coupled to the processor comprising instructions executable by the
processor, the processor being operable when executing the instructions to:
        pair, by at least one of the radios, the portable computing device with one or more
devices associated with a first user of the portable computing device;
        monitor, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a first
communication network, wherein the portable computing device has previously connected to
the first communication network and wherein the first communication network was selected
based at least in part on social-graph          information representing a social-networking
relationship between the first user of the portable computing device and a second user
associated with the first communication network;
        determine that the signal for the first communication network has dropped below a
threshold level of quality; and
        based on the determination, enable an access point mode to provide connectivity using
a second communication network for at least one of the paired devices through the portable
computing device, wherein in the access point mode, the portable computing device provides

                                                 3
network connectivity for the paired devices to the second communication network, wherein
the instructions to enable the access point mode comprise instructions to facilitate a soft
handoff for the at least one of the paired devices from the first communication network to the
second communication network.
         [7]     In a second aspect, the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
         pairing, by one or more processors of a portable computing device comprising a
plurality of radios, the portable computing device with one or more devices associated with a
first user of the portable computing device;
         monitoring, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a
first communication network, wherein the portable computing device has previously
connected to the first communication network, and the first communication network was
selected based at least in part on social-graph information representing a social-networking
relationship between the first user of the portable computing device and a second user
associated with the first communication network;
         determining,    by the   one or more processors,       that the signal    for the first
communication network has dropped below a threshold level of quality; and
         based on the determination, enabling, by the one or more processors, an access point
mode to provide connectivity using a second communication network for at least one of the
paired devices through the portable computing device, wherein in the access point mode, the
portable computing device provides network connectivity for the paired devices to the second
communication network, and wherein enabling the access point mode comprises facilitating a
soft handoff for the at least one of the paired devices from the first communication network to
the second communication network.
         [8]     In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides one or more computer
readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
         pair, by a portable computing device comprising a plurality of radios, the portable
computing device with one or more devices associated with a first user of the portable
computing device;
         monitor, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a first
communication network, wherein the portable computing device has previously connected to
the first communication network, and the first communication network was selected based at
least in part on social-graph information representing a relationship between the first user of

                                                4
the portable computing device and a second user associated with the first communication
network;
        determine that the signal for the first communication network has dropped below a
threshold level of quality; and
        based on the determination, enable an access point mode to provide connectivity using
a second communication network for at least one of the paired devices through the portable
computing device, wherein in the access point mode, the portable computing device provides
network connectivity for the paired devices to the second communication network and
wherein to enable an access point mode, the software is further operable to facilitate a soft
handoff for the at least one of the paired devices from the first communication network to the
 second communication network.
        [9]     In particular embodiments, a portable, networked computing device ("PND")
provides seamless and portable network connectivity for a user's devices in a device cloud.
In particular embodiments, the PND may be a stand-alone small (e.g., key-fob-sized) device;
in other embodiments, the PND may be integrated into one of the user's devices (e.g., a
 smartphone or tablet computing device). The PND may be designed to take advantage of any
available network connection in order to act as a network access point for devices that may
not include all of the same capabilities. A PND may be paired with one or more devices,
with which it may communicate directly, in a peer-to-peer fashion, by low-power radio when
it is within a threshold proximity with the PND-paired device(s).        The PND itself may
monitor network availability and/or link quality and turn on one or more of its own additional
radios on an as-needed basis (conserves power and may reduce cost). For example, when the
PND detects that WiFi signals are becoming weak, it may activate its cellular radio to
 seamlessly provide network connectivity to paired devices within proximity of the PND.
        [10]    A brand-new device being introduced into the user's device cloud may take
advantage of proximity to devices already registered as being associated with the user to
jump-start customization of the user's experience with the device using social-networking
information.   In addition, when a guest enters a PND user's home, the guest's PND will
attempt to establish a peer-to-peer connection with one of the user's devices in the device
cloud.    The guest may be authenticated in accordance with social graph information and
other social-networking      information (e.g., first-degree   friends may automatically    be
authenticated to access and use the user's devices). Such access may be granted/restricted
according to any property or attribute associated with an element of the user's social graph

                                                    5
(e.g., only allowing access to other social-network users in a designated "Close Friends"
group to be automatically authenticated upon entering the user's home).
         [11]     Mobile/portable PND-paired devices in the user's device cloud may include a
2G radio or a two-way pager radio so that the device can send out an alert and communicate
its location if it determines that it is lost, based on an inability to detect the PND within range.
A user may be able to use one of the devices in the device cloud to control one or more
mobile/portable PND-paired devices comprising the user's device cloud (e.g., PND, phone,
tablet, laptop, automobile, watch, camera). In a group situation, such as where each member
of a household has their own individual PND that is carried on their person, each PND may
be configured for individual authentication and levels of authorization to access and/or
control devices in the household device cloud. Roaming users to whom members of the
household may be connected by way of a social graph may be granted permissions in
accordance with social graph information and other social-networking information.
         [12]     A user interface may be provided on the control device to control other
devices in the device cloud. Such a control interface may be displayed in a convenient
manner so as not to impair the user experience.           For example, if the control device is a
smartphone, the interface to control other devices may be provided in such a way so as not to
require the user to unlock their smartphone in order to use the interface. Icons to control one
or more devices may appear on the locked-screen interface, based on proximity of the
smartphone to the one or more devices.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [13]     FIG. 1 illustrates an example device cloud associated with a user.
         [14]     FIG. 2 illustrates an example method for providing seamless and portable
network connectivity for a user's devices.
         [15]     FIG. 3 illustrates the example device cloud of FIG. I and a PND-equipped
guest user.
         [16]     FIG. 4 illustrates an example method 400 for building a PND-based ecosystem
of devices associated with users.
         [17]     FIGS. 5A-D illustrate an example interface 500 for controlling devices in a
device cloud.

                                               6
        [18]   FIG. 6 illustrates an example method 600 for presenting a user interface to
control devices in a device cloud.
        [19]   FIG. 7 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
        [20]   FIG. 8 illustrates an example social graph.
        [21]   FIG. 9 illustrates an example computer system.
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
        [22]   A portable, networked, computing device ("PND") that can act as a universal
control and network access point for one or more devices with which the PND is paired. In
particular embodiments, a PND may comprise a portable device (e.g., key-fob-sized device)
including network components to enable the PND to pair with and communicate with PND
paired devices. In particular embodiments, a PND pairs with devices using a radio (e.g., a
low-power radio using the Bluetooth low energy (BLE) standard or a conventional radio
using the soft access point functionality of the WI-FI DIRECT standard) that requires that
any such paired devices be within a threshold proximity to the PND.
        [23]   FIG. 1 illustrates an example device cloud 100 including devices associated
with a user 101. A user's PND 110 may be paired with one or more devices in device cloud
100; PND 110 may communicate directly with one of more of the PND-paired devices in
device cloud 100, in a peer-to-peer fashion, by low-power radio when it is within a threshold
proximity to the device. In particular embodiments, a PND-paired device may comprise any
device that includes at least one processor and at least one mode of network connectivity
(e.g., phone 120, desktop computer 130, refrigerator 140, security system 150, television
(TV) 160, automobile 170, tablet 180, and camera 190). By pairing a device with PND 110,
the user may be able to activate, control, and otherwise use devices in the device cloud. For
each PND-paired device, PND 110 may store a unique device identifier (e.g., UDID),
authentication    information,    or   a  user   identifier (e.g.,  an    identifier  for  the
owner/operator/authorized user of the device).
        [24]   PND 110 may be designed to take advantage of any available network
connection, while acting as a network access point for devices that may not include all of the
same capabilities.   A PND-paired device may thereby be able to conserve power without

                                                7
sacrificing network connectivity by including only low-power radios, which may also
improve the device's form factor, both by eliminating cellular radio(s) and antenna(e), as well
as reducing the size of the battery (allowing for a slimmer, lighter device).
         [25]   PND 110 may include antennae and one or more low-power and high-power
radios for various types of network connections, e.g., cellular (e.g., 2G/3G/4G/4G LTE), Wi
Fi (e.g., 802.11n, 802.11ac, 802.1lad WiGig),         Wi-Fi-based higher-level protocols (e.g.,
INTEL      WIRELESS       DISPLAY       (WiDi),   Wi-Fi   mesh     (e.g., ITU-T   G.hn)),   TV
whitespace/mesh (TVWS, or 802.11af), GPS, Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low Energy, near-field
communication (NFC), satellite, pager radio, etc.
         [26]   In particular embodiments, PND 110 may also include external physical
features, such as, for example and not by way of limitation, a button interface, a status
indicator, a small/low-power screen, a memory card slot, and connection ports (e.g., USB,
Ethernet, optical). In particular embodiments, a PND may be able to connect to a power
adapter, draw power from a received RF signal, generate power using integrated piezoelectric
components, or otherwise utilize power using any conventional source.
         [27]   Each PND-paired device may be able to use PND                 110 for network
connectivity, either on a constant basis (e.g., whenever the user holding PND 110 is within
proximity to the PND-paired device), or on an as-needed basis (e.g., whenever the PND
paired device's network connectivity becomes sporadic/weak/unavailable or costly, based on
financial cost to the user or energy/resource consumption by the PND-paired device).
         [28]   For example, PND 110 may comprise a small device attached to a user's
keychain that has cellular and Wi-Fi connectivity and is paired with tablet 180 and telephone
120 via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or NFC. Since PND 110 is seamlessly connected to the Internet at
all times, if user 101 carries tablet 180 and telephone 120 around in a bag, PND 110 may
provide user 101 with a seamless connection to the Internet regardless of where user 101
might go (taking PND 110 and the user's PND-paired devices), so as to provide IP-based
telephony and messaging capabilities to telephone 120 and Internet connectivity to tablet 180.
PND 110 may also be paired with and provide network connectivity for other devices, so that
the user is able to use network-enabled features on any such devices as long as PND 110 is
within the threshold proximity to the device.
         [29]   Since PND 110 can act as an access point (and thereby establish a local private
network for devices paired with PND 110), multiple devices connected to one PND 110 may

                                                8
also be able to communicate with each other via PND 110, even when PND 110 is not
connected to an external network.
         [30]    In particular embodiments, one of more of the PND-paired devices may
operate as "dumb terminal" devices that become personalized computing devices upon
pairing with a user's PND. A "dumb terminal" device may include any computing device
that does not persistently store user-specific information and can be temporarily converted
into a personalized computing device for a user (e.g., public or shared-use). PND 110 may be
able to pair with and utilize a dumb terminal device for any and all suitable purposes.        In
some embodiments, PND 110 may wirelessly pair with a device; in some embodiments, PND
110 may be able to physically plug into the device.
         [31]    For example, a library may provide number of standard-issue desktop
computers 130 (i.e., dumb terminal devices), wherein a member of the library can pair a
desktop computer 130 with their PND 110, and the PND 110 will configure desktop
computer 130 to adopt the user's preferences (e.g., desktop theme, language settings, and
time zone), comply with the user's security policies (e.g., authentication, authorization, and
screen-lock timeout policies), and access and load the user's content (e.g., social-networking
information, music library, photo album, subscribed periodicals).
         [32]    In another example, user 101 may be able to get into car 170 (an autonomous,
robot-driven "taxicab") which, upon pairing with PND 110, authenticates user 101, provides
personalized destination suggestions for user 101 (e.g., the user's home, workplace, school,
or a destination specified in the user's calendar), authorizes payment for user 101 (based on
the user's selected destination), and transports user 101 to their selected destination in
accordance with their personal preferences (e.g., as fast as possible, or controlled and
leisurely), while providing videoconferencing facilities for user 101 during the ride.
         [33]    PND    110 may also store user-specific authentication and authorization
credentials, payment credentials (e.g., smart card chip), telephony identifiers (e.g., SIM card),
configuration settings, preferences, favorites lists/bookmarks, applications, or any other data
to enable PND 110 to facilitate personalized and secure computing in conjunction with the
PND-paired devices.      In particular embodiments, certain PND-paired devices (e.g., home
security system, a safe, a gun locker, a bicycle chain, a laptop security cable) may comprise
additional components for security purposes (e.g., sensors and logic to perform biometric
identification).

                                                  9
        [34]     In particular embodiments, PND 110 may be able to disavow a pairing with a
dumb terminal device without leaving any trace of personal information, usage logs, or other
user-identifying information on the dumb terminal device.
        [35]     A PND 110 itself may monitor network availability and/or link quality and
turn on one or more of its radios on an as-needed basis, in order to conserve power and
reduce cost (e.g., turning on a high-power radio, such as a cellular radio, or turning on a radio
that provides a connection to a network requiring payment to use bandwidth). When the link
quality (e.g., as characterized by received signal strength indication (RSSI)) detected by PND
110 drops below a particular threshold (i.e., begins to decrease to the point where it appears
the user is going to leave the zone of the Wi-Fi network), PND 110 turns on the cellular radio
and goes into access point mode on its Wi-Fi to seamlessly provide network connectivity to
paired devices within threshold proximity of PND 110. The threshold may be characterized
according to any of a number of different attributes of the signal, including, but not limited
to: signal strength, signal-to-noise ratio, average data throughput, average data latency, or any
other attribute of the signal, or any combination of attributes. The threshold may also be
characterized by one or more data-quality metrics as well, such as the current and/or
historical throughput to a known site (e.g., a social-networking website) with respect to either
latency and/or throughput (for example, if the latency exceeds the threshold or the throughput
drops below the threshold, then PND 110 may go into access point mode).              In particular
embodiments, either PND 110 and/or the PND-paired device may be able to detect network
availability and/or link quality.     In particular embodiments, PND 110 may obtain such
information from the PND-paired device, and vice versa.
        [36]     In particular embodiments, PND 110 may calculate the threshold and/or make
this determination to go into access point mode based off of other factors or conditions
besides simply detecting a real-time drop in RSSI, such as, for example, historical data
logging RSSI data at particular locations (e.g., the PND 110 is being carried by the user and
headed in the direction of a "dead spot" where RSSI has historically dropped below some
threshold), designations of low-RSSI locations (e.g., inside of a secure military complex that
blocks all wireless signals except those on a particular bandwidth), or designations of
estimated RSSI at particular locations (e.g., network coverage maps calculated based on
signal type and base station location information). In particular embodiments, such factors
may be determined based on information shared across a network of users, such as, for
example, a network of registered PND users, a network of users associated with an

                                               10
organization (e.g., a company's employees or a group of customers paying for network
service), or a social network of users connected within a social graph.
         [37]   When a PND-paired device loses network connectivity (e.g., moves out of
range of a home Wi-Fi network), the device may automatically begin utilizing PND 110 for
network connectivity. PND 110 itself may continually monitor the level of connectivity with
familiar networks and only serve as an access point when it detects that any signals from
familiar networks is becoming attenuated.
         [38]   In particular embodiments, PND 110 may be able to perform seamless
handoffs between different types of networks so as to avoid any interruption in connectivity.
Once a PND-paired device comes into range of a familiar network, it may be able to
seamlessly switch back from using PND 110 for network connectivity to using the familiar
network (e.g., when the user comes home and is within range of a home Wi-Fi network, the
user's tablet 180 may switch over to connect to the home Wi-Fi network).
         [39]   FIG. 2 illustrates an example method 200 for providing seamless and portable
network connectivity for a user's devices. The method may begin at step 210, where a PND
configures familiar network connections.      This initial step may be performed at the time
when the user is first associated with the PND, as well as whenever the user connects with a
new network and establishes the network as a new familiar network. As described above, the
PND may obtain network connectivity information from the user's other devices, or the PND
may obtain such information by accessing a profile for the user locally or through the social
network.
         [40]   At step 220, the PND may pair with one or more devices. For example, while
the user is at home and within threshold proximity to any or all of phone 120, desktop
computer 130, refrigerator 140, security system 150, television (TV) 160, tablet 180, and
camera 190, the PND may remain paired to any such devices. In particular embodiments, the
PND may pair with a device in order to retrieve network connectivity information prior to
configuring any network connections. In particular embodiments, PND 110 may require that
initial pairing with a device take place using a radio that requires very close proximity, such
as NFC, or by a Wi-Fi or Bluetooth radio where distance is determined by a maximum RSSI
threshold, in order to provide extra security and help avoid inadvertently pairing PND 110
with a device.
         [41]   At step 230, the PND may monitor available networks and detect a familiar
network (e.g., a home Wi-Fi network). As long as the detected signal for the network is of

                                                 11
sufficient quality, the PND may itself utilize the familiar network for network connectivity
and expect that any PND-paired devices will do the same. In particular embodiments, the
PND may automatically determine that a detected network is a "familiar" network because it
is provided by another user that is known to user 101 (e.g., a social-networking connection of
user 101). The PND may identify the provider of a network by detecting the other user's
PND and identifying and/or authenticating that PND. In particular embodiments, the PND
belonging to user 101 may utilize particular security measures based on attributes of the
detected network (e.g., whether it is an open or secured network, or whether the other user is
a trusted friend of user 101 or simply a friend of a friend). In particular embodiments, the
PND belonging to user 101 may limit or throttle back certain types of network
communications by paired devices based on attributes of the detected network (e.g., if the
detected network require payment based on bandwidth usage or quantity of data downloaded,
or if the detected network imposes bandwidth limits).
         [42]    In particular embodiments, a PND 110 may be able to access a mesh network
grid formed when a sufficient density of users within a geographic region provide wireless
network access to which PND 110 can connect. A PND-carrying user may be able to travel
significant distances (e.g., across a city) without activating any cellular radios (or other high
power radios), simply by switching from wireless network to wireless network. For example,
in a particular region, many if not all residents may have set up individual Wi-Fi and/or
television whitespace (TVWS) networks, wherein a user's PND 110 is configured to access
some or all such networks, in addition to more far-ranging networks (e.g., commercial
cellular networks), to provide seamless connectivity for devices that paired with the user's
PND 110.
         [43]    Such embodiments may facilitate security and/or bandwidth consumption
control for a unit of a mesh network (e.g., an individual home Wi-Fi network) by establishing
rules that place restrictions upon roaming users who wish to connect to their wireless
network, such as, by way of example and not limitation: (1) restricting access to other social
network users (e.g., by confirming that they have a valid user identifier), (2) restricting access
to other social-network users within their social graph, (3) restricting access to other social
network users within a threshold degree of separation, (4) restricting access according to any
other property or attribute associated with an element of the user's social graph (e.g., only
allowing access to other social-network users in a designated group), (5) restricting access to
particular days or times, (6) only allowing access to particular users (e.g., other social-

                                              12
network users who are not within the user's social graph) by charging a connection fee, (7)
restricting access to a maximum number of roaming users, (8) restricting access to a
maximum bandwidth per device, (9) restricting access to particular application types, (10)
restricting access by a connection timeout, (11) restricting access to only allow connections
by roaming users who also contribute to the access grid by providing their own wireless
networks, or any combination of such rules.
         [44]   At step 240, the PND may detect that the signal for the familiar network is
dropping or has dropped below a threshold level of quality (e.g., the signal drops, becomes
unstable, or attenuated) and enable its access point mode (in step 250), thereby providing
network connectivity for any paired devices.     The threshold level of quality of a network
signal may be determined as discussed above, based off of various factors and/or conditions.
For example, if user 101 has walked out of their home holding telephone 120, tablet 180, and
camera 190, gotten into automobile 170, and begun driving off, the PND may detect that it is
no longer within range of the home Wi-Fi network and is now only within range of a home
TVWS network. At this point, the PND may enable its access point mode in order to provide
seamless connectivity for telephone 120, tablet 180, camera 190, and automobile 170.           In
particular embodiments, the PND may enable its access point mode simply based on the fact
that user 101 entered and turned on automobile 170, since at that point, it is very likely that
user 101 will imminently move out of range of the home Wi-Fi network.              In particular
embodiments, the PND may only enable access point mode if the PND detects PND-paired
devices within threshold proximity to the PND (thereby conserving power if there are no
devices that may need to use the PND for network connectivity).
         [45]   The PND may also commence performing operations in order to smoothly
establish a network connection for any such devices so that they can continue communication
via the PND instead of the familiar network, such as, for example, initiating/facilitating a soft
handoff by temporarily utilizing both the familiar network and the PND access point in
parallel. The PND may use multi-frequency radios (2.4GHz and 5GHz) to ensure that it can
maintain access point mode and test the quality of the familiar network. PND could also use
GPS or indoor beacons to determine the imminent dropout of the original Wi-Fi. PND and
the user devices could also communicate in a peer-to-peer fashion to mutually evaluate
network changes.
         [46]   In particular embodiments, rather than switching between networks, the PND
may combine available bandwidth across multiple networks (e.g., in order to meet a specified

                                                13
Quality of Service standard or requirement for transmission of particular types of content,
such as high-definition video).
         [47]     At step 260, the PND may detect that the signal for the familiar network is of
sufficient quality again (or that another familiar network is now within range) and disable its
access point mode (in step 270). In particular embodiments, if the PND detects that there are
any paired devices that are communicating via the PND, the PND may perform operations in
order to smoothly hand off the network connection for any such devices so that they are
instead connected to the familiar network. For example, if user 101 has arrived at work and
PND 110 detects the user's work Wi-Fi network, or if user 101 has arrived at an often
frequented caf6 with a TVWS network, the PND may connect to the newly-detected network,
initiate/facilitate a soft handoff for any devices that are currently utilizing the PND for
network connectivity (e.g., telephone 120 and tablet 180), and then disable its access mode.
In particular embodiments, PND 110 may detect that a paired device is utilizing the PND 110
for a high-demand activity (e.g., making a telephone call, or streaming high-bandwidth
content) and postpone disabling access point mode until the activity has ended.
         [48]     If more than one network is available, the selection of which particular
network to join may included an assessment of which network is optimal, wherein the
analysis may be based on any number of cost factors , including but not limited to, technical
factors, economic factors, security factors, and user preference factors, such as, for example:
available bandwidth, network type (e.g., 4G cellular vs. TVWS vs. 802.1 In), signal strength,
noise, level of interference, resource consumption required to establish and maintain a
connection with the network (e.g., utilizing a radio to connect to a cellular network may
require more power than a radio to connect to a Wi-Fi network), whether a particular network
is familiar to PND 110 (e.g., PND 110 previously successfully connected to the network or
has a stored password to access the network), whether there is any cost incurred by
connecting to the network (e.g., is there free access?      is the access free, but the network
require that you use software that displays ads? is this a sunk cost where the user is already
paying for a regular subscription to the network?      is the access pay-per-use?), whether the
network is operated by a known person or entity (e.g., by your employer, by another user to
whom you are connected in a social-networking system, by the host of an event for which the
user has purchased admission), level of available security (e.g., open vs. WEP vs. WPA2),
etc.

                                               14
        [49]   Once a PND-paired device (e.g., telephone 120) comes into range of a
network associated with a particular phone number for the user (e.g., "home" network or
"work" network), the PND-paired device may ring in response to callers calling the particular
phone number.     For example, when the user is at home (within range of their "home"
network), the PND-paired device may detect an incoming call to the home phone number and
cause the device to ring. PND 110 may also be able to provide an IP-based telephone feature
that works transparently across international boundaries and across disparate networks (which
may operate based on disparate technologies); in particular embodiments, a "phone number"
may be associated with a user's social-networking user identity, and a first user of a social
network may be able to call a second user of the social network simply by "dialing" the
second user using their social-networking identifier (e.g., login username).
        [50]   Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 2,
where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the
method of FIG. 2 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIG. 2 occurring in any suitable order.         Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out
particular steps of the method of FIG. 2, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps
of the method of FIG. 2.
        [51]   FIG. 3 illustrates user 101's example device cloud 100 of devices paired with
PND 110 as shown in FIG. I (e.g., phone 120, desktop computer 130, refrigerator 140,
security system 150, television (TV) 160, automobile 170, tablet 180, and camera 190), as
well as guest user 301 who is equipped with her own PND 310 and wishes to temporarily or
permanently pair with one or more devices in user 101's device cloud 100.
        [52]   Typically, when a user sets up a new personalized device, such as an
ANDROID or APPLE IOS device, the user is required to log in to the device with their
existing user ID. The setup process may require that the user enter their password repeatedly,
which may be cumbersome for the user. Oftentimes, it may be quite awhile before the device
can present the user with a customized experience on the device, based on profile information
associated with their existing user login.     In addition, when using the device to make
purchases, a user may again need to enter their password repeatedly.
        [53]   FIG. 4 illustrates an example method 400 for building a PND-based
ecosystem of devices associated with users. The ecosystem may include the PND itself, as

                                                15
well as the device(s) in the device cloud. In step 410, new PND 110 stores configuration
information associated with user 101. PND 110 may obtain the configuration information in
any conventional manner: (1) by entering user-identifying and/or authentication information
directly into PND 110 (e.g., by providing PND 110 with biometric identification, or by
entering a user ID and password for a social-networking account of user 101), (2) by (at least
temporarily) pairing PND 110 with a dumb terminal device that can be used to provide PND
110 with user credentials, (3) by encoding a PND 110 with user-identifying information at a
store or fulfillment warehouse at the time of sale, (4) by encoding a brand-new PND 110 with
user-identifying information upon connecting with the user's home Wi-Fi network (likely
after receiving confirmation from the user), etc. In particular embodiments, PND 110 may be
configured to access a user profile for user 101 (e.g., on a social-networking system based on
the user's identifier on the social-networking system), from which PND 110 may retrieve
network connectivity settings, or any other user-specific information.
         [54]    In step 420, PND 110 (or a device that has already been paired with PND 110)
senses a new (un-paired) device within a threshold proximity. In particular embodiments, the
new device itself may sense that it is within threshold proximity of PND 110 or a PND-paired
device. For example, if the user purchases a new tablet device online and has it shipped to
their home, when the user brings the tablet into their home, the tablet may come within
threshold proximity of the user's PND and/or one or more devices registered as being
associated with the user. The new tablet may also sense that it is within range of the user's
home Wi-Fi network, wherein the user's Wi-Fi router is paired with PND 110. The threshold
proximity may be determined by the natural range of a particular radio that is to be used for
pairing new devices. For example, in order to prevent inadvertent pairings (or attempts to
pair a device), some embodiments may require that a near-field communication (NFC) radio
be used for pairing new devices. In other embodiments (e.g., where pairing is performed
using a network technology with a longer signal range, such as Wi-Fi Direct or BLE), the
threshold proximity may be configured at a particular distance. e.g., one foot or less or one
meter or less, or in accordance with an RSSI indicator (e.g., upper value for saturation).
         [55]    In particular embodiments, a brand-new device being introduced into the
user's device cloud may be able take advantage of proximity to a PND or other devices that
have already been registered as being associated with the user in order to jump-start
customization of the user's experience with the device by using social-networking
information. In particular embodiments, a user's profile may be pre-configured to permit

                                                16
purchase/activation of a brand-new device when the user accesses a purchase/activation
interface on the new device and the new device is within a threshold proximity of one or
more other devices already registered as being associated with the user.
         [56]    In step 430, in particular embodiments, the new device pairs with the user's
PND and joins the user's device cloud. As part of the pairing process, PND 110 may attempt
to establish a direct peer-to-peer-style connection with the device in order to exchange initial
information.     The user's PND may store the initial information associated with the new
device (e.g., device ID, MAC address), and the new device may likewise store the initial
information associated with the PND (e.g., PND ID). In particular embodiments, if the new
device is within range of the user's home Wi-Fi network, the new device may be able to pair
with the user's PND 110 even if it is not within threshold proximity of PND 110 (e.g., even if
user 110 left PND 110 at their workplace, the new device may still be able to pair with PND
 110 by connecting to PND 110 over the Internet via the home Wi-Fi network) in order to
jump-start customization of the user's experience with the device).
         [57]    In step 440, the new device may provide information to PND 110.            For
example, a device belonging to user 101 may have established its own network connectivity
 settings (e.g., Wi-Fi service set identifiers (SSIDs), encryption configuration settings and
passwords) prior to pairing with PND 110, which it may then share with PND 110 upon
pairing with PND 110.
         [58]    In step 450, the new device may obtain user information from the PND or
another PND-paired device.       For example, based on the state of the tablet as a brand-new
device and the proximity of the tablet with one or more other devices and/or the presence of
the device within the user's home Wi-Fi network, the tablet may obtain identifying
information for the user, such as the user's social-networking user identifier.
         [59]    In step 460, the new device uses the user information to provide a customized
user experience for user 101. For example, the tablet may use the user's social-networking
user identifier to establish a connection to the social network, and begin downloading some
information of various types in order to present an out-of-the-box social-network-based user
experience (e.g., by displaying a cover photo on the locked screen, by being allowed to
access the user's home Wi-Fi network, by setting basic device settings and/or metadata in
accordance with the user's preferences, such as time zone, preferred language, etc.). In some
embodiments, full access to the device and to the user's social-networking information (as
presented on the device) may not be granted until the user enters their social-networking

                                                 17
system credentials into the device. In particular embodiments, a brand-new device may be
encoded with the user's social-networking user identifier on an integrated chip (e.g., an
RFID/NFC tag) at a factory, warehouse, or some other point in a distribution chain so that the
device can begin downloading some information of various types in order to present an out
of-the-box social-network-based user experience--in this case, the user may not be required to
enter their social-networking password as long as the new device is placed within a threshold
proximity to another device already registered as being associated with the user.
         [60]   Once user 101 has set up one or more PND-paired devices, the user may wish
to securely provide a guest 301 with access to devices in the user's device cloud (e.g.,
refrigerator 140, TV 160, and automobile 170).           Guest 301 may be authenticated in
accordance with social graph information and other social-networking information (e.g., first
degree friends may automatically be authenticated to access and use the user's devices).
Such access may be granted/restricted according to any property or attribute associated with
an element of the user's social graph (e.g., only allowing access to other social-network users
in a designated "Close Friends" group to be automatically authenticated upon entering the
user's home).
         [61]   In step 470, in particular embodiments, when guest 301 enters the user's home
and comes within threshold proximity of a device, for example TV 160, guest 30 1's PND 310
will attempt to establish a direct peer-to-peer-style connection with TV 160. The requirement
that a direct connection be established between PND 310 and the user's device implies that
guest 301 is standing in the presence of the user, thus reducing the likelihood of gaining
access through spoofing. In particular embodiments, for this type of authentication use case,
PND 310 may be required to establish the direct connection using NFC or another type of
wireless technology where the threshold proximity is very low (such that guest 301 is
required to be very close to the device, as opposed to standing outside a window).
         [62]   In step 480, once a direct connection has been established, the device may
attempt to authenticate and/or authorize access for guest 301.      For example, TV 160 may
retrieve a social-networking user ID for guest 301 from PND 310, access a social-networking
system, and determine whether guest 301 and the user are connected within a social graph of
a social-networking system. If yes, TV 160 may recognize guest 301 as a friend of the user
and display an interface for the user to grant credentials to guest 301. Such credentials may
be assigned an expiration timestamp or be revoked. In particular embodiments, the device
may grant access in accordance with an authorization level based on whether guest 301 is

                                                18
connected to user 101 within a threshold degree of separation, based on whether guest 301
belongs to a user-designated group of trusted friends (or a user-designated black list of
untrusted friends), or based on some other information associated with guest 301.
        [63]    In particular   embodiments,     use of a PND may          support multi-factor
authentication of a guest to whom a user may be connected by way of a social graph. The
possession factor may be satisfied by guest 301 carrying the PND on their person.         In an
example relying on possession + inherence (of a kind), when guest 301 enters the user's
house and attempts to pair their PND with the user's TV, PND 310 may transmit a token to
the TV, which uses that token to search for guest 301 in the user's social graph and retrieve
their user profile. The TV may then display guest 301's profile and ask the user to click a
button on their own PND to confirm their guest's identity and permit guest 301 to pair their
PND with the TV. In an example relying on possession + knowledge, after the TV locates
guest 301 in the user's social graph, the TV may display a request for guest 301 to enter
authentication credentials, such as a password or swipe gesture pattern (e.g., by using a
remote control of the TV, by using PND 310, by using another device paired with PND 110,
or by using a device paired with PND 310).         In an example relying upon two degrees of
possession, the user's own PND (or a PND belonging to someone else in the household) may
also need to be present.    In particular embodiments, authentication may be require that PND
310 be within threshold proximity of at least a minimum number of devices in user 101's
device cloud (e.g., three PND-paired devices); if PND 310 can be determined to be within
threshold proximity of at least those minimum number of user 101's devices, guest 301 may
be authenticated (the assumption being that guest 301 could not be within threshold
proximity of that many of user 101's devices without having been invited in). The more
rigorous requirements of multi-factor authentication may also be applied selectively (e.g., for
guests who are not first-degree friends of the user within the social graph).
        [64]    In particular embodiments, a PND may be authenticated using a token-based
peer-to-peer technique as described in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/843,155, filed 15
March 2013 and titled "Wireless Data Privacy Maintained Through a Social Network."           In
particular embodiments, authentication may be performed
        [65]    In step 490, the device grants access and/or control to guest 301, based on the
detected presence of their PND 310. In some embodiments, if PND 310 is not detected, the
device may temporarily or permanently disable access/control (or only certain types of
access/control, until PND 310 is detected and/or guest 301 re-authenticates their identity). In

                                                19
particular embodiments, this process may also include steps to authorize guest 301 to access
different features of the device. For example, at the moment when a user confirms that guest
301 should be authenticated, the user may also manually configure access permissions for
guest 301 with respect to the device.        In another example, access permissions may be
automatically configured in accordance with guest 301's social-networking profile and other
social-networking information.      For example, if guest 301 is a child, the TV's range of
channels may automatically be limited to those deemed appropriate for children.
         [66]   Although PND 110 has been described as being associated with a single user,
in particular embodiments,      PND 110 may be used by a group of users (e.g., a family or
group of friends) to provide connectivity to devices associated with any user in the group
and/or to allow any user in the group to connect to a dumb terminal device. In particular
embodiments, such a PND 110 may be associated with a group profile, including any
suitable type of information described herein (e.g., group-level authorization and security
settings, payment credentials for a group bank account, shared group content). In particular
embodiments,      PND 110 may be used in association with a social-networking system to
automatically detect and permit access to "friends" of a user of PND 110-such access may
be restricted by degree of separation within the user's social graph.
         [67]   Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 4,
where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the
method of FIG. 4 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIG. 4 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out
particular steps of the method of FIG. 4, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps
of the method of FIG. 4.
         [68]   In some embodiments, when a PND-paired device determines that it has been
lost because it is neither within range of the PND nor within range of a familiar network., the
device may include a 2G radio or a two-way pager radio so that the device can send out an
alert and communicate its location. Such a device may utilize an IP address that can be geo
located or in the case of Wi-Fi, the SSID/password combination may be used to designate a
trusted location (home, work, friend's house, etc.).
         [69]   In particular, pager radios are often used in emergency situations for reasons
that make them ideal for use when integrated into a device that has been lost: (1) pager

                                               20
networks are typically based on simulcast delivery by satellite-controlled networks with
many overlapping pager transmitters, (2) pager radios can penetrate solid structures much
more easily than other radios (e.g., cellular or Wi-Fi), and (3) pager radios draw very little
power.
        [70]    In some embodiments, no alert may be generated if a device happens to be
within range of a trusted network (e.g., home Wi-Fi network) or is able to maintain a peer-to
peer connection with PND 110.        In some embodiments, the 2G or pager radio remains
powered off until the PND-paired device does not detect PND 110 and is not within range of
a trusted network.
        [71]    As discussed above, by pairing a device with PND 110, the user may be able
to activate, control, and otherwise use devices in the device cloud. By connecting with the
PND, one or more devices in the device cloud may be used to communicate with and control
(actively or automatically) one or more other devices in the device cloud. A control interface
may be provided on one device ("the control device") to control other devices in the device
cloud. In particular embodiments, the control device may only provide controls for particular
"controllable" devices in the device cloud, e.g., those that are sensed within a threshold
proximity, those that include a remote interaction interface by which the device can receive
and process commands for remote control, those for which the user of PND 110 has been
granted authorization to control the device, or those that are available (e.g., powered on,
connected to a network, operational, and/or enabled for remote control).
        [72]    FIGS. 5A-D illustrate an example user interface (UI) 500 for controlling
devices in a device cloud. In the example illustrated in FIGS. 5A-D, UI 500 is displayed on
the screen of user 101's smartphone 120.         In particular embodiments, UI 500 may be
displayed on a home screen of smartphone 120, or even in a locked-screen interface (thereby
being available for use without requiring user 101 to unlock smartphone 120).
        [73]    When smartphone 120 comes within a threshold proximity of various devices
in device cloud 100, an icon for each device may appear on the screen of smartphone 120.
For example, in FIG. 5A, when user 101 carries smartphone 120 into the living room, UI 500
displays icons for four devices within threshold proximity: "Main Television" (the TV in the
living room), "Curtains," "Living Room Lights," and "Downstairs Thermostat."                The
standard for being within threshold proximity may differ from one PND-paired device to
another, based on factors such as: the range of radio(s) used to establish a connection with the
PND-paired device (e.g., a big-screen TV with a Wi-Fi receiver may have a larger range than

                                                21
a watch with a Bluetooth receiver), the usage profile of the PND-paired device (e.g., the
normal distance for usage and operation of a big-screen TV-viewing distance-may be
farther than the normal distance for usage and operation of a touchscreen tablet-a
comfortable arm's-length distance), etc. If user 101 selects the icon for a particular device,
an interface may be displayed that enables smartphone 120 to act as a remote control for the
selected device.     As shown in FIG. 5B, when user 101 selects the "Living Room Lights"
icon, an interface is displayed to enable user 101 to control two arrays of dimmer-controlled
overhead recessed lighting in the living room while watching television. As shown in FIG.
5C, when user 101 selects the "Downstairs Thermostat" icon, user 101 can also control the
air conditioning and subfloor heating in the living room.
        [74]    In another example scenario, when the user is watching a movie on the TV, (1)
an interface may be provided on the smartphone through which the user can control a remote
control car, and (2) a picture-in-picture (PiP) display may appear on the TV where the user
can monitor a video camera mounted on the remote-control car to follow the user's toddler or
puppy around and monitor what they are doing in another room.
        [75]    In another example scenario, if a user is working in their home office upstairs
with the door closed, the user's laptop may display a first notification when the front door is
being opened by someone with a key (at which point a control interface may appear on the
screen of the laptop to display an image of the user's child captured by a security camera
mounted at the front door), and then the user's laptop may display a second notification when
the TV downstairs has just been turned on and the channel changed to view cartoons (at
which point, the control interface may provide a feature to take over control of the TV and
either turn it off, change the channel to an educational channel, or transmit audio through the
TV's speakers so that the user can tell their child to go do their homework).
        [76]    In another example scenario, as the user walks through the house before going
to bed, different interfaces may pop up on the screen of the smartphone as the user walks
down a hallway and passes different rooms, where each interface displays a UI to control
aspects of the associated room (e.g., to turn off lights, lock doors, turn off TVs, silence phone
ringers, draw curtains, etc.). As shown in FIG. 5D, after user 101 is done watching television
and goes upstairs to go to bed, smartphone 120 senses devices in the master bedroom and
displays icons to control those devices: "Master Bedroom Television," "Security System,"
"Bedroom Lights," "Upstairs Thermostat."

                                                22
         [77]   In some embodiments, instead of having a single designated control device
that is physically carried with the user, PND 110 may transfer the designation from device to
device within the device cloud, based on which device (that is able to provide an adequate
control interface) is in closest proximity to PND 110 (and, presumably, the user). Different
types of control interfaces (e.g., display screen, embedded microphone to detect spoken
commands, embedded 3D motion sensor to detect gesture commands, etc.) may be integrated
into different types of devices. For example, when the user is in their car (with embedded
microphones and a touch screen in the dashboard), the user may command the garage door to
open and the oven to begin pre-heating as the car turns onto their street (and PND 110 comes
within Wi-Fi range of the user's house). After the user parks their car in the garage, PND
110 detects that the user has walked away from the car and into the kitchen, and transfers the
control device designation from the car to a refrigerator with an interactive screen, embedded
microphones, and embedded 3D motion sensors in the door. Now that the refrigerator is the
designated control device while the user is cooking in the kitchen, the user can monitor a
videocamera trained on a baby sleeping upstairs, and, while hands are messy, give spoken
commands and/or motion gesture commands to the refrigerator to reply to a text message sent
to smartphone 120.
         [78]   In particular embodiments, automatic and active controls may be triggered
simultaneously-for example, if there is one person in a large home with many rooms, as the
person walks through different rooms in the house to cook dinner, watch TV, use the
restroom, and go to sleep, each room may automatically adjust the temperature and lighting
as the user enters and leaves the room, and an interface to may briefly pop up on the user's
smartphone for the first 20 seconds after the user enters a new room to allow the user to
actively control the temperature and lighting as well.
         [79]   In a group situation, such as where each member of a household has their own
individual PND that is carried on their person, each PND may be configured for individual
authentication and authorization.     In this manner, different permissions may be granted to
each PND (e.g., the parents may have administrative-level controls over all devices, whereas
teenagers may have restricted controls, and toddlers/pets may have no controls).        In this
scenario, when each PND is paired with one or more devices in the house, automatic controls
may be implemented to control a particular device based on the particular PND that is
detected in proximity to the device.

                                               23
         [80]   For example, a toddler's or puppy's PND may be configured so that the PND
acts as a tracking device that notifies devices in the home as the PND approaches.           If the
PND and/or a PND-paired device detects that the toddler/puppy is approaching, the PND may
send a signal to the PND-paired device to take certain actions that would not be triggered by
a PND configured for an adult or older child (e.g., a mechanized baby gate automatically
closes off access to a stairwell). In another example, if a toddler wakes up and approaches
the living room where adults are watching a horror movie, the TV may automatically pause
the movie and display a screensaver or a channel appropriate for children.              In another
example, if a secure cabinet containing medicines/liquor/cleaning supplies detects that a child
is approaching the cabinet without any adults in proximity, the secure cabinet may lock its
door(s).
         [81]   In a situation involving one or more roaming users (each carrying a PND on
their person) who are not members of the household, varying levels of control may be granted
to the roaming users based on social-networking information or other information.              For
example, differing access permissions may be granted to different service providers
depending on their different roles (e.g., gardeners may need access to a side gate to the
backyard, but not access into the house; a nanny may need access to the house, but not to the
parents' bedroom or the home office; a housecleaner may need access to almost all areas of
the house; houseguests staying at the house while the owner is away may obtain access to
everything except particular closets and the liquor cabinet, and may not be granted access to
purchase on-demand movies).
         [82]   Other roaming users to whom members of the household may be connected by
way of a social graph may be granted permissions in accordance with social graph
information    and other social-networking      information  (e.g., first-degree     friends  may
automatically be granted access to the home Wi-Fi network).          Such permissions may be
granted/restricted by, as examples without limitation: (1) restricting access to other social
network users (e.g., by confirming that they have a valid user identifier), (2) restricting access
to other social-network users within their social graph, (3) restricting access to other social
network users within a threshold degree of separation, or (4) restricting access according to
any other property or attribute associated with an element of the user's social graph (e.g.,
only allowing access to other social-network users in a designated group).
         [83]   FIG. 6 illustrates an example method 600 for providing seamless and portable
network connectivity for a user's devices.      The method may begin at step 610, where a

                                               24
particular device in device cloud 100 designated as a control device (e.g., smartphone 120)
senses one or more other devices in device cloud 100 within a threshold proximity. The
threshold proximity may be assessed with respect to the location of the control device, or
with respect to the location of the PND. In particular embodiments, only a device associated
with a specific user may be used as a control device.          In step 620, the control device
determines which of the devices within a threshold proximity are controllable.              This
determination may be made by retrieving such information from the PND, or by the control
device itself. In step 630, the control device presents a UI that enables a user to view and
select each device -    in some embodiments, only those devices within a threshold proximity
for which the user has authorization to access and/or control the device. In step 640, upon
receiving user input selecting a particular device presented in the UI that the user wishes to
access or control, the control device presents a UI to control the selected device. In step 650,
the control device sends commands to access or control the selected device, based on user
input received by way of the UI. In particular embodiments, the user input may indicate that
the user wishes to monitor progress of the selected device with respect to a particular
operation (e.g., turn on the oven light and watch the progress of a chocolate souffld), or
receive a notification when a particular event occurs (e.g., temperature of the oven reaches
4250 Fahrenheit). The commands may be sent directly from the control device to the selected
device, or by way of the PND. In step 660, the control device receives feedback from the
selected device (e.g., confirmation that the command was successfully executed, or sensor
data indicating a current state of the device.    Like the commands, feedback may be sent
directly to the control device from the selected device, or by way of the PND. In step 670,
the control device may update the UI as the user (and thereby, the control device) moves
through physical space, thereby moving towards or away from devices in device cloud 100,
and then return to step 620 (in order to determine whether the user has authorization to access
and/or control any newly-sensed devices).
         [84]   In particular embodiments, UI 500 may be displayed in a convenient manner
so as not to impair the user experience. For example, if a smartphone and a PND are detected
as being within proximity of the TV, the interface to control the TV may be provided in such
a way so as not to require the user to unlock their smartphone in order to use the interface
(e.g., displaying controls on the locked-screen interface where the user is also prompted to
unlock their smartphone). In another example, a notification may be sent to the smartphone
that, when clicked on, opens up the device control interface without unlocking the

                                               25
smartphone.     In another example, one or more icons to control one or more devices may
appear on the locked-screen interface, based on proximity of the smartphone to the one or
more devices.
        [85]     FIG. 7 illustrates an example network environment 700 associated with a
social-networking system. Network environment 700 includes a client system 730, a social
networking system 760, and a third-party system 770 connected to each other by a network
710.   Although FIG. 7 illustrates a particular arrangement of client system 730, social
networking     system 760, third-party    system 770,    and network 710, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable arrangement of client system 730, social-networking system 760,
third-party system 770, and network 710. As an example and not by way of limitation, two
or more of client system 730, social-networking system 760, and third-party system 770 may
be connected to each other directly, bypassing network 710.      As another example, two or
more of client system 730, social-networking system 760, and third-party system 770 may be
physically or logically co-located with each other in whole or in part. Moreover, although
FIG. 7 illustrates a particular number of client systems 730, social-networking systems 760,
third-party systems 770, and networks 710, this disclosure contemplates any suitable number
of client systems 730, social-networking systems 760, third-party systems 770, and networks
710. As an example and not by way of limitation, network environment 700 may include
multiple client system 730, social-networking systems 760, third-party systems 770, and
networks 710.
        [86]     This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 710. As an example and
not by way of limitation, one or more portions of network 710 may include an ad hoc
network, an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network
(LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a
metropolitan area network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more
of these. Network 710 may include one or more networks 710.
        [87]     Links 750 may connect client system 730, social-networking system 760, and
third-party system 770 to communication network 710 or to each other.         This disclosure
contemplates any suitable links 750.     In particular embodiments, one or more links 750
include one or more wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data
Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi
or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for

                                               26
example Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH))
links. In particular embodiments, one or more links 750 each include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the
Internet,   a portion of the PSTN,        a cellular technology-based    network, a satellite
communications technology-based network, another link 750, or a combination of two or
more such links 750.       Links 750 need not necessarily be the same throughout network
environment 700. One or more first links 750 may differ in one or more respects from one or
more second links 750.
         [88]   In particular embodiments, client system 730 may be an electronic device
including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or
more such components and capable            of carrying out the appropriate functionalities
implemented or supported by client system 730. As an example and not by way of limitation,
a client system 730 may include a computer system such as a desktop computer, notebook or
laptop computer, netbook, a tablet computer, e-book reader, GPS device, camera, personal
digital assistant (PDA), handheld electronic device, cellular telephone, smartphone, other
suitable electronic device, or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable client systems 730. A client system 730 may enable a network user at client
system 730 to access network 710. A client system 730 may enable its user to communicate
with other users at other client systems 730.
         [89]   In particular embodiments, client system 730 may include a web browser 732,
such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA
FIREFOX. and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as
TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR.                  A user at client system 730 may enter a Uniform
Resource Locator (URL) or other address directing the web browser 732 to a particular server
(such as server 762, or a server associated with a third-party system 770), and the web
browser 732 may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate
the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to
client system 730 one or more Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to the
HTTP request. Client system 730 may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the
server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files.
As an example and not by way of limitation, webpages may render from HTML files,
Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML) files, or Extensible Markup Language
(XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as, for

                                               27
example and without limitation, those written in JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, MICROSOFT
SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous
JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein, reference to a webpage encompasses one or
more corresponding webpage files (which a browser may use to render the webpage) and vice
versa, where appropriate.
         [90]     In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may be a network
addressable computing system that can host an online social network.        Social-networking
system 760 may generate, store, receive, and send social-networking data, such as, for
example, user-profile data, concept-profile data, social-graph information, or other suitable
data related to the online social network. Social-networking system 760 may be accessed by
the other components of network environment 700 either directly or via network 710. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may include one or more servers 762.
Each server 762 may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers
or multiple datacenters.      Servers 762 may be of various types, such as, for example and
without limitation, web server, news server, mail server, message server, advertising server,
file server, application server, exchange server, database server, proxy server, another server
suitable for performing functions or processes described herein, or any combination thereof.
In particular embodiments, each server 762 may include hardware, software, or embedded
logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the
appropriate     functionalities  implemented or supported by server 762.          In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 764 may include one or more data stores 764. Data
stores 764 may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments, the
information stored in data stores 764 may be organized according to specific data structures.
In particular embodiments, each data store 764 may be a relational, columnar, correlation, or
other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of
databases,    this disclosure contemplates    any suitable types of databases.       Particular
embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system 730, a social-networking
system 760, or a third-party system 770 to manage, retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the
information stored in data store 764.
         [91]     In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may store one or
more social graphs in one or more data stores 764. In particular embodiments, a social graph
may include multiple nodes-which may include multiple user nodes (each corresponding to
a particular user) or multiple concept nodes (each corresponding to a particular concept)-

                                               28
and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social-networking system 760 may provide users
of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users.         In
particular embodiments, users may join the online social network via social-networking
system 760 and then add connections (e.g., relationships) to a number of other users of social
networking system 760 whom they want to be connected to. Herein, the term "friend" may
refer to any other user of social-networking system 760 with whom a user has formed a
connection, association, or relationship via social-networking system 760.
         [92]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may provide users
with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects, supported by social
networking system 760. As an example and not by way of limitation, the items and objects
may include groups or social networks to which users of social-networking system 760 may
belong, events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested, computer-based
applications that a user may use, transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the
service, interactions with advertisements that a user may perform, or other suitable items or
objects.   A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social
networking system 760 or by an external system of third-party system 770, which is separate
from social-networking system 760 and coupled to social-networking system 760 via a
network 710.
         [93]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may be capable of
linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking
system 760 may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third
party systems 770 or other entities, or to allow users to interact with these entities through an
application programming interfaces (API) or other communication channels.
         [94]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 770 may include one or more
types of servers, one or more data stores, one or more interfaces, including but not limited to
APIs, one or more web services, one or more content sources, one or more networks, or any
other suitable components, e.g., that servers may communicate with. A third-party system
770 may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social-networking system
760.   In particular embodiments, however, social-networking system 760 and third-party
systems 770 may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social-networking
services to users of social-networking system 760 or third-party systems 770. In this sense,
social-networking system 760 may provide a platform, or backbone, which other systems,

                                                 29
such as third-party systems 770, may use to provide social-networking services and
functionality to users across the Internet.
         [95]    In particular embodiments, a third-party system 770 may include a third-party
content object provider.      A third-party content object provider may include one or more
sources of content objects, which may be communicated to a client system 730.              As an
example and not by way of limitation, content objects may include information regarding
things or activities of interest to the user, such as, for example, movie show times, movie
reviews, restaurant reviews, restaurant menus, product information and reviews, or other
suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation, content objects may
include incentive content objects, such as coupons, discount tickets, gift certificates, or other
suitable incentive objects.
         [96]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 also includes user
generated content objects, which may enhance a user's interactions with social-networking
system 760. User-generated content may include anything a user can add, upload, send, or
"post" to social-networking system 760. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user
communicates posts to social-networking system 760 from a client system 730. Posts may
include data such as status updates or other textual data, location information, photos, videos,
links, music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social-networking
system 760 by a third-party through a "communication channel," such as a newsfeed or
stream.
         [97]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may include a
variety of servers, sub-systems, programs, modules, logs, and data stores.          In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 760 may include one or more of the following: a
web server, action logger, API-request server, relevance-and-ranking engine, content-object
classifier,   notification  controller,  action   log, third-party-content-object-exposure   log,
inference module, authorization/privacy server, search module, advertisement-targeting
module, user-interface module, user-profile store, connection store, third-party content store,
or location store. Social-networking system 760 may also include suitable components such
as network interfaces, security mechanisms, load balancers, failover servers., management
and-network-operations consoles, other suitable components, or any suitable combination
thereof. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may include one or more
user-profile stores for storing user profiles.       A user profile may include, for example,
biographic     information,     demographic     information,   behavioral   information,   social

                                               30
information, or other types of descriptive information, such as work experience, educational
history, hobbies or preferences, interests, affinities, or location.  Interest information may
include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As
an example and not by way of limitation, if a user "likes" an article about a brand of shoes the
category may be the brand, or the general category of "shoes" or "clothing." A connection
store may be used for storing connection information about users.               The connection
information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience, group
memberships, hobbies, educational history, or are in any way related or share common
attributes. The connection information may also include user-defined connections between
different users and content (both internal and external).      A web server may be used for
linking social-networking system 760 to one or more client systems 730 or one or more third
party system 770 via network 710.        The web server may include a mail server or other
messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social-networking
system 760 and one or more client systems 730. An API-request server may allow a third
party system 770 to access information from social-networking system 760 by calling one or
more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server
about a user's actions on or off social-networking system 760. In conjunction with the action
log, a third-party-content-object log may be maintained of user exposures to third-party
content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects
to a client system 730. Information may be pushed to a client system 730 as notifications, or
information may be pulled from client system 730 responsive to a request received from
client system 730. Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings
of the users of social-networking system 760. A privacy setting of a user determines how
particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may
allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social-networking system
760 or shared with other systems (e.g., third-party system 770), such as, for example, by
setting appropriate privacy settings. Third-party-content-object stores may be used to store
content objects received from third parties, such as a third-party system 770. Location stores
may be used for storing location information received from client systems 730 associated
with users.    Advertisement-pricing modules may combine social information, the current
time, location information, or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements,
in the form of notifications, to a user.

                                                31
        [98]    FIG. 8 illustrates example social graph 800.        In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 760 may store one or more social graphs 800 in one or more data
stores. In particular embodiments, social graph 800 may include multiple nodes-which may
include multiple user nodes 802 or multiple concept nodes 804-and multiple edges 806
connecting the nodes. Example social graph 800 illustrated in FIG. 8 is shown, for didactic
purposes, in a two-dimensional visual map representation.         In particular embodiments, a
social-networking system 760, client system 730, or third-party system 770 may access social
graph 800 and related social-graph information for suitable applications.         The nodes and
edges of social graph 800 may be stored as data objects, for example, in a data store (such as
a social-graph database). Such a data store may include one or more searchable or queryable
indexes of nodes or edges of social graph 800.
        [99]    In particular embodiments, a user node 802 may correspond to a user of
social-networking system 760. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user may be an
individual (human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or
a group (e.g., of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social
networking system 760. In particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with
social-networking system 760, social-networking system 760 may create a user node 802
corresponding to the user, and store the user node 802 in one or more data stores. Users and
user nodes 802 described herein may, where appropriate, refer to registered users and user
nodes 802 associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative, users and user
nodes 802 described herein may, where appropriate, refer to users that have not registered
with social-networking system 760.       In particular embodiments, a user node 802 may be
associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems,
including social-networking system 760. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user
may provide his or her name, profile picture, contact information, birth date, sex, marital
status, family status, employment, education background, preferences, interests, or other
demographic information. In particular embodiments, a user node 802 may be associated
with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user.              In
particular embodiments, a user node 802 may correspond to one or more webpages.
        [100]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 804 may correspond to a concept.
As an example and not by way of limitation, a concept may correspond to a place (such as,
for example, a movie theater, restaurant, landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example,
a website associated with social-network system 760 or a third-party website associated with

                                                32
a web-application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group, sports
team, or celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video file, digital photo,
text file, structured document, or application) which may be located within social-networking
system 760 or on an external server, such as a web-application server; real or intellectual
property (such as, for example, a sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or
written work); a game; an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more
such concepts.      A concept node 804 may be associated with information of a concept
provided by a user or information gathered by various systems, including social-networking
system 760. As an example and not by way of limitation, information of a concept may
include a name or a title; one or more images (e.g., an image of the cover page of a book); a
location (e.g., an address or a geographical location); a website (which may be associated
with a URL); contact information (e.g., a phone number or an email address); other suitable
concept information; or any suitable combination of such information.              In particular
embodiments, a concept node 804 may be associated with one or more data objects
corresponding to information associated with concept node 804. In particular embodiments,
a concept node 804 may correspond to one or more webpages.
         [101] In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 800 may represent or be
represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page"). Profile pages may
be hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 760. Profile pages may also be hosted
on third-party websites associated with a third-party server 770. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the
particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node
804. Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example
and not by way of limitation, a user node 802 may have a corresponding user-profile page in
which the corresponding user may add content, make declarations, or otherwise express
himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 804
may have a corresponding concept-profile page in which one or more users may add content,
make     declarations,   or express  themselves,   particularly  in relation   to the concept
corresponding to concept node 804.
         [102]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 804 may represent a third-party
webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 770.           The third-party webpage or
resource may include, among other elements, content, a selectable or other icon, or other
inter-actable object (which may be implemented, for example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP

                                              33
codes) representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a
third-party webpage may include a selectable icon such as "like," "check in," "eat,"
"recommend," or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage
may perform an action by selecting one of the icons (e.g., "eat"), causing a client system 730
to send to social-networking system 760 a message indicating the user's action. In response
to the message, social-networking system 760 may create an edge (e.g., an "eat" edge)
between a user node 802 corresponding to the user and a concept node 804 corresponding to
the third-party webpage or resource and store edge 806 in one or more data stores.
        [103] In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 800 may be
connected to each other by one or more edges 806. An edge 806 connecting a pair of nodes
may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments, an edge
806 may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the
relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user
may indicate that a second user is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication,
social-networking system 760 may send a "friend request" to the second user. If the second
user confirms the "friend request," social-networking system 760 may create an edge 806
connecting the first user's user node 802 to the second user's user node 802 in social graph
800 and store edge 806 as social-graph information in one or more of data stores 764. In the
example of FIG. 8, social graph 800 includes an edge 806 indicating a friend relation between
user nodes 802 of user "A" and user "B" and an edge indicating a friend relation between
user nodes 802 of user "C" and user "B." Although this disclosure describes or illustrates
particular edges 806 with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes 802, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 806 with any suitable attributes connecting user
nodes 802.     As an example and not by way of limitation, an edge 806 may represent a
friendship, family relationship, business or employment relationship, fan relationship,
follower relationship, visitor relationship,    subscriber relationship,  superior/subordinate
relationship, reciprocal relationship, non-reciprocal relationship, another suitable type of
relationship, or two or more such relationships. Moreover, although this disclosure generally
describes nodes as being connected, this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being
connected. Herein, references to users or concepts being connected may, where appropriate,
refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph
800 by one or more edges 806.

                                               34
         [104] In particular embodiments, an edge 806 between a user node 802 and a
concept node 804 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated
with user node 802 toward a concept associated with a concept node 804. As an example and
not by way of limitation, as illustrated in FIG. 8, a user may "like," "attended," "played,"
"listened," "cooked," "worked at," or "watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to
an edge type or subtype. A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 804 may
include, for example, a selectable "check in" icon (such as, for example, a clickable "check
in" icon) or a selectable "add to favorites" icon. Similarly, after a user clicks these icons,
social-networking system 760 may create a "favorite" edge or a "check in" edge in response
to a user's action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way
of limitation, a user (user "C") may listen to a particular song ("Ramble On") using a
particular application (SPOTIFY, which is an online music application). In this case, social
networking system 760 may create a "listened" edge 806 and a "used" edge (as illustrated in
FIG. 8) between user nodes 802 corresponding to the user and concept nodes 804
corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and
used the application. Moreover, social-networking system 760 may create a "played" edge
806 (as illustrated in FIG. 8) between concept nodes 804 corresponding to the song and the
application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In
this case, "played" edge 806 corresponds to an action performed by an external application
(SPOTIFY) on an external audio file (the song "Imagine").           Although this disclosure
describes particular edges 806 with particular attributes connecting user nodes 802 and
concept nodes 804, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 806 with any suitable
attributes connecting user nodes 802 and concept nodes 804.          Moreover, although this
disclosure describes edges between a user node 802 and a concept node 804 representing a
single relationship, this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node 802 and a concept
node 804 representing one or more relationships.         As an example and not by way of
limitation, an edge 806 may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular
concept.    Alternatively, another edge 806 may represent each type of relationship (or
multiples of a single relationship) between a user node 802 and a concept node 804 (as
illustrated in FIG. 8 between user node 802 for user "E" and concept node 804 for
"SPOTIFY").
         [105]  In particular embodiments, social-networking system 760 may create an edge
806 between a user node 802 and a concept node 804 in social graph 800. As an example and

                                                 35
not by way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile page (such as, for example, by
using a web browser or a special-purpose application hosted by the user's client system 730)
may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node 804 by clicking
or selecting a "Like" icon, which may cause the user's client system 730 to send to social
networking system 760 a message indicating the user's liking of the concept associated with
the concept-profile page.      In response to the message, social-networking system 760 may
create an edge 806 between user node 802 associated with the user and concept node 804, as
illustrated by "like" edge 806 between the user and concept node 804.               In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 760 may store an edge 806 in one or more data
stores.   In particular embodiments, an edge 806 may be automatically formed by social
networking system 760 in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way
of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a movie, or listens to a song, an edge
806 may be formed between user node 802 corresponding to the first user and concept nodes
804 corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular
edges 806 in particular manners, this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges 806
in any suitable manner.
         [106]   FIG. 9 illustrates     an example    computer system 900.         In particular
embodiments, one or more computer systems 900 perform one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer
systems 900 provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments,
software running on one or more computer systems 900 performs one or more steps of one or
more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated
herein.    Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer
systems 900. Herein, reference to a computer system may encompass a computing device,
and vice versa, where appropriate.          Moreover, reference to a computer system may
encompass one or more computer systems, where appropriate.
         [107]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 900.
This disclosure contemplates computer system 900 taking any suitable physical form. As
example and not by way of limitation, computer system 900 may be an embedded computer
system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for
example, a computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer
system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of
computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, a tablet

                                                36
computer system, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer
system 900 may include one or more computer systems 900; be unitary or distributed; span
multiple locations; span multiple machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud,
which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.                   Where
appropriate, one or more computer systems 900 may perform without substantial spatial or
temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.
As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more computer systems 900 may perform
in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 900 may perform at different times or at
different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein,
where appropriate.
         [108] In particular embodiments, computer system 900 includes a processor 902,
memory 904, storage 906, an input/output (1/0) interface 908, a communication interface
910, and a bus 912. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer
system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any
suitable components in any suitable arrangement.
         [109] In particular embodiments, processor 902 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 902 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from
an internal register, an internal cache, memory 904, or storage 906; decode and execute them;
and then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 904, or
storage 906.    In particular embodiments, processor 902 may include one or more internal
caches for data, instructions, or addresses.       This disclosure contemplates processor 902
including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate.          As an
example and not by way of limitation, processor 902 may include one or more instruction
caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs).
Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory 904 or storage
906, and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor 902.
Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory 904 or storage 906 for instructions
executing at processor 902 to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at
processor 902 for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor 902 or for writing
to memory 904 or storage 906; or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or

                                                37
write operations by processor 902. The TLBs may speed up virtual-address translation for
processor 902. In particular embodiments, processor 902 may include one or more internal
registers for data, instructions, or addresses.    This disclosure contemplates processor 902
including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where
appropriate, processor 902 may include one or more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a
multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 902.          Although this disclosure
describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
processor.
         [110] In particular embodiments, memory 904 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 902 to execute or data for processor 902 to operate on. As an
example and not by way of limitation, computer system 900 may load instructions from
storage 906 or another source (such as, for example, another computer system 900) to
memory 904. Processor 902 may then load the instructions from memory 904 to an internal
register or internal cache.    To execute the instructions, processor 902 may retrieve the
instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after
execution of the instructions, processor 902 may write one or more results (which may be
intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor 902 may
then write one or more of those results to memory 904. In particular embodiments, processor
902 executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in
memory 904 (as opposed to storage 906 or elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or
more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 904 (as opposed to storage 906 or
elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data
bus) may couple processor 902 to memory 904. Bus 912 may include one or more memory
buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory management
units (MMUs) reside between processor 902 and memory 904 and facilitate accesses to
memory 904 requested by processor 902. In particular embodiments, memory 904 includes
random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate,
such as dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this
RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable
RAM. Memory 904 may include one or more memories 904, where appropriate. Although
this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable memory.

                                                 38
         [111] In particular embodiments, storage 906 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 906 may include a hard
disk drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc. a magneto-optical disc,
magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of
these.    Storage 906 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where
appropriate.    Storage 906 may be internal or external to computer system 900, where
appropriate. In particular embodiments, storage 906 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In
particular embodiments, storage 906 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate,
this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM
(EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM),
or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates
mass storage 906 taking any suitable physical form. Storage 906 may include one or more
storage control units facilitating communication between processor 902 and storage 906,
where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage 906 may include one or more storages 906.
Although this disclosure describes         and illustrates   particular storage, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable storage.
         [112] In particular embodiments, I/O interface 908 includes hardware, software, or
both, providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 900 and
one or more I/O devices.       Computer system 900 may include one or more of these I/O
devices, where appropriate.     One or more of these I/O devices may enable communication
between a person and computer system 900. As an example and not by way of limitation, an
I/O device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner,
speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable 1/0
device or a combination of two or more of these. An I/O device may include one or more
sensors.    This disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O devices and any suitable 1/0
interfaces 908 for them.     Where appropriate, 1/0 interface 908 may include one or more
device or software drivers enabling processor 902 to drive one or more of these I/O devices.
I/O interface 908 may include one or more I/O interfaces 908, where appropriate. Although
this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I/O interface, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable I/O interface.
         [113] In particular embodiments, communication interface 910 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 900 and one or more other computer

                                              39
systems 900 or one or more networks.         As an example and not by way of limitation,
communication interface 910 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC
(WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-Fl
network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication
interface 910 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 900 may
communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network
(LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of
one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system
900 may communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH
WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for
example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable
wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.        Computer system 900 may
include any suitable communication interface 910 for any of these networks, where
appropriate.    Communication interface 910 may include one or more communication
interfaces 910, where appropriate.     Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication
interface.
        [114] In particular embodiments, bus 912 includes hardware, software, or both
coupling components of computer system 900 to each other. As an example and not by way
of limitation, bus 912 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus,
an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture         (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a
HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an
INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel
Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express
(PCIe) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics
Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable bus or a combination of two or
more of these. Bus 912 may include one or more buses 912, where appropriate. Although
this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable bus or interconnect.
        [115]   Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may
include one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for

                                                  40
example, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard
disk drives (HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs),
magneto-optical discs, magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs),
magnetic tapes, solid-state drives (SSDs)., RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives,
any other suitable computer-readable          non-transitory storage media, or any suitable
combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory
storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile,
where appropriate.
Further Embodiments
         [116] One embodiment provides a portable computing device comprising:
        a processor;
        a plurality of radios; and
        a memory coupled to the processor comprising instructions executable by the
processor, the processor being operable when executing the instructions to:
        pair, by at least one of the radios, with one or more devices associated with a user;
        monitor, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a first
network;
        determine that the signal for the first network has dropped below a threshold level of
quality; and
        enable access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.
         [117] In one arrangement, the memory comprises further instructions to:
        turn on one of the radios to establish a connection with a second network; and
        provide connectivity to the second network for the at least one of the paired devices.
         [118] In one arrangement, wherein the memory comprises further instructions to:
        detect, by the radios, signals of sufficient quality for a plurality of networks; and
        assess an optimal network from the plurality of networks, wherein the assessment is
based on one or more factors, wherein the factors comprise technical factors, economic
factors, security factors, or user preference factors; and
         select the second network.
         [119] In one arrangement, wherein the second network is assessed to be less optimal
than the first network.
         [120]    In one arrangement, the memory comprises further instructions to:
        detect, by one of the radios, the signal for the first network;

                                                  41
         determine that the signal for the first network satisfies a threshold level of quality; and
         disable access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.
         [121]   In one arrangement, the instructions to disable access point mode comprise
instructions to turn off the radio providing the connection with the second network.
         [122]   In one arrangement, the instructions to enable access point mode comprise
instructions to facilitate a soft handoff for the at least one of the paired devices from one
network to another network.
         [123]   In one arrangement, the threshold level of quality is based on one or more
attributes of the signal, the one or more attributes comprising: signal strength, signal-to-noise
ratio, average data throughput, or average data latency.
         [124]   In one arrangement, one of the radios is a Bluetooth low energy (BLE) radio,
and wherein the instructions to enable access point mode for the at least one of the paired
devices comprises instructions to initiate a communication channel using the BLE radio.
         [125]   In one arrangement, the instructions to enable access point mode for the at
least one of the paired devices comprises instructions to initiate a communication channel
using the Wi-Fi Direct protocol.
         [126]   Another embodiment provides a method comprising:
         pairing, by one or more processors of a portable networking device comprising a
plurality of radios, with one or more devices associated with a user;
         monitoring, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a
first network;
         determining, by the one or more processors, that the signal for the first network has
dropped below a threshold level of quality; and
         enabling, by the one or more processors, access point mode for at least one of the
paired devices.
         [127]   In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         turning on one of the radios to establish a connection with a second network; and
         providing connectivity to the second network for the at least one of the paired devices.
         [128]   In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         detecting, by the radios, signals of sufficient quality for a plurality of networks; and
         assessing an optimal network from the plurality of networks, wherein the assessment
is based on one or more factors, wherein the factors comprise technical factors, economic
factors, security factors, or user preference factors; and

                                                  42
         selecting the second network.
         [129] In one arrangement, the second network is assessed to be less optimal than the
first network.
         [130] In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         detecting, by one of the radios, the signal for the first network;
         determining that the signal for the first network satisfies a threshold level of quality;
and
         disabling access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.
         [131] A further embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory
storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
         pair, by a portable networking device comprising a plurality of radios, with one or
more devices associated with a user;
         monitor, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a first
network;
         determine that the signal for the first network has dropped below a threshold level of
quality; and
         enable access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.
         [132]   In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
         turn on one of the radios to establish a connection with a second network; and
         provide connectivity to the second network for the at least one of the paired devices.
         [133] In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
         detect, by the radios, signals of sufficient quality for a plurality of networks; and
         assess an optimal network from the plurality of networks, wherein the assessment is
based on one or more factors, wherein the factors comprise technical factors, economic
factors, security factors, or user preference factors; and
         select the second network.
         [134] In one arrangement, the second network is assessed to be less optimal than the
first network.
         [135]   In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
         detect, by one of the radios, the signal for the first network;
         determine that the signal for the first network satisfies a threshold level of quality; and
         disable access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.

                                                43
Miscellaneous
         [136]  Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated
otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or
both," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover,
"and" is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by
context.    Therefore, herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
         [137] The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that
a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is
not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although
this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may include
any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, functions, operations, or
steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art
would comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system
or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of,
configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function
encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function
is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so
adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                                 44
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1. A portable computing device comprising:
        a processor;
        a plurality of radios; and
        a memory coupled to the processor comprising instructions executable by the
processor, the processor being operable when executing the instructions to:
        pair, by at least one of the radios, the portable computing device with one or more
devices associated with a first user of the portable computing device;
        monitor, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a first
communication network, wherein the portable computing device has previously connected to
the first communication network and wherein the first communication network was selected
based at least in part on social-graph          information representing a social-networking
relationship between the first user of the portable computing device and a second user
associated with the first communication network;
        determine that the signal for the first communication network has dropped below a
threshold level of quality; and
        based on the determination, enable an access point mode to provide connectivity using
a second communication network for at least one of the paired devices through the portable
computing device, wherein in the access point mode, the portable computing device provides
network connectivity for the paired devices to the second communication network, wherein
the instructions to enable the access point mode comprise instructions to facilitate a soft
handoff for the at least one of the paired devices from the first communication network to the
second communication network.
        2. The device of Claim 1, wherein the processor is further operable when executing
the instructions to:
        turn on one of the radios to establish a connection with the second communication
network.

                                                 45
        3. The device of Claim 2, wherein the processor is further operable when executing
the instructions to:
        detect, by the radios, signals of sufficient quality for a plurality of communication
networks; and
        assess an optimal communication network from the plurality of communication
networks, wherein the assessment is based on one or more factors, wherein the factors
comprise technical factors, economic factors, security factors, or user preference factors; and
        select the second communication network as the optimal communication network.
        4. The device of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the social-graph information
comprises an edge of a social-graph connecting a node corresponding to the second user
associated with the first communication network to a node corresponding to the first user of
the portable computing device.
        5. The device of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the processor is further operable
when executing the instructions to:
        detect, by one of the radios, the signal for the first communication network;
        determine that the signal for the first communication network satisfies the threshold
level of quality; and
        disable the access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.
        6. The device of Claim 5, wherein the instructions to disable the access point mode
comprise instructions to turn off the radio providing the connection with the second
communication network.
        7. The device of any one of Claims I to 6, wherein the threshold level of quality is
based on one or more attributes of the signal, the one or more attributes comprising: signal
strength, signal-to-noise ratio, average data throughput, or average data latency.
        8. The device of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the social-graph information
comprises a social-graph with a node corresponding to the second user associated with the

                                                 46
first communication network being within a threshold degree of separation from a node
corresponding to the first user of the portable computing device.
         9. The device of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the instructions to enable the
access point mode for the at least one of the paired devices comprises instructions to initiate a
communication channel using the Wi-Fi Direct protocol.
         10. The device of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the paired devices are within a
threshold proximity of the portable computing device.
         11. A method comprising:
         pairing, by one or more processors of a portable computing device comprising a
plurality of radios, the portable computing device with one or more devices associated with a
first user of the portable computing device;
         monitoring, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a
first communication network, wherein the portable computing device has previously
connected to the first communication network, and the first communication network was
selected based at least in part on social-graph information representing a social-networking
relationship between the first user of the portable computing device and a second user
associated with the first communication network;
         determining,   by   the one or more processors,        that the signal   for the first
communication network has dropped below a threshold level of quality; and
         based on the determination, enabling, by the one or more processors, an access point
mode to provide connectivity using a second communication network for at least one of the
paired devices through the portable computing device, wherein in the access point mode, the
portable computing device provides network connectivity for the paired devices to the second
communication network, and wherein enabling the access point mode comprises facilitating a
soft handoff for the at least one of the paired devices from the first communication network to
the second communication network.

                                                 47
         12. The method of Claim 11, further comprising:
         turning on one of the radios to establish a connection with the second communication
network.
         13. The method of Claim 12, further comprising:
         detecting, by the radios, signals of sufficient quality for a plurality of communication
networks;
         assessing an optimal communication network from the plurality of communication
networks, wherein the assessment is based on one or more factors, wherein the factors
comprise technical factors, economic factors, security factors, or user preference factors; and
         selecting the second communication network as the optimal communication network.
         14. The method of any one of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the social-graph information
comprises an edge of a social-graph connecting a node corresponding to the second user
associated with the first communication network to a node corresponding to the first user of
the portable computing device.
         15. The method of any one of Claims 11 to 14, further comprising:
         detecting, by one of the radios, the signal for the first communication network;
         determining that the signal for the first communication network satisfies the threshold
level of quality; and
         disabling the access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.
         16.    One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying
software that is operable when executed to:
         pair, by a portable computing device comprising a plurality of radios, the portable
computing device with one or more devices associated with a first user of the portable
computing device;
         monitor, by one or more of the radios, a signal for a connection established with a first
communication network, wherein the portable computing device has previously connected to
the first communication network, and the first communication network was selected based at
least in part on social-graph information representing a relationship between the first user of

                                                 48
the portable computing device and a second user associated with the first communication
network;
        determine that the signal for the first communication network has dropped below a
threshold level of quality; and
        based on the determination, enable an access point mode to provide connectivity using
a second communication network for at least one of the paired devices through the portable
computing device, wherein in the access point mode, the portable computing device provides
network connectivity for the paired devices to the second communication network and
wherein to enable an access point mode, the software is further operable to facilitate a soft
handoff for the at least one of the paired devices from the first communication network to the
second communication network.
        17. The media of Claim 16, wherein the software is further operable when executed
to:
        turn on one of the radios to establish a connection with a second communication
network.
        18. The media of Claim 17, wherein the software is further operable when executed
to:
        detect, by the radios, signals of sufficient quality for a plurality of communication
networks;
        assess an optimal communication network from the plurality of communication
networks, wherein the assessment is based on one or more factors, wherein the factors
comprise technical factors, economic factors, security factors, or user preference factors; and
        select the second communication network as the optimal communication network.
        19.  The media of any one of Claims 16 to 18, wherein the second communication
network is assessed to be less optimal than the first communication network.
        20. The media of any one of Claims 16 to 19, wherein the software is further operable
when executed to:
        detect, by one of the radios, the signal for the first communication network;

                                               49
        determine that the signal for the first communication network satisfies the threshold
level of quality; and
        disable the access point mode for at least one of the paired devices.
                                     Facebook, Inc.
                             By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                  KCOTTERS
                                Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
