                                             - 31
                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A method for awarding time-based incremental rewards for a payment transaction
includes: storing a reward rule, wherein the reward rule includes at least a base
amount, an increase amount, and a predetermined period of time; storing a first
transaction data entry, wherein the first transaction data entry includes data related
to a completed transaction including at least a transaction time and/or date;
receiving, by a receiving device, transaction data for a payment transaction, wherein
the transaction data includes at least a time and/or date; and identifying, by a
processing device, a reward amount for the payment transaction if the time and/or
date included in the received transaction data is within the predetermined period of
time of the transaction time and/or date included in the first transaction data entry,
wherein the reward amount is based on at least the base amount and increase
amount included in the reward rule.

                                            -1
 METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ALLOWING TIME-BASED, INCREMENTAL POINT
                                  ACCELERATION
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
2015211332, as originally filed and as amended, is incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to a method for awarding time-based incremental
rewards for a payment transaction; and a system for awarding time-based
incremental rewards for a payment transaction. For example, the disclosure relates
to the awarding of time-based incremental rewards for a payment transaction,
specifically the incremental acceleration of points or other rewards for a payment
transaction based on time elapsed since previous transactions.
Background of the Invention
Payment cards, such as credit cards, debit cards, etc. can be a beneficial tool for
consumers to use. Because of the utility of payment cards, many consumers may
have multiple payment cards, and in some instances may possess payment cards
from multiple issuers. As a result, issuers may often try and provide incentives for
consumers to use payment cards that they have issued. One such incentive is the
use of reward points, cash back, or other type of currency that may be redeemed by
the consumer, that may be awarded for eligible purchases made using associated
payment cards.

                                                 -2
However, as more and more payment cards begin to offer rewards for their use,
such reward programs may no longer be attractive enough to consumers to influence
payment card use due to the similarities between programs offered by each payment
card. As a result, issuers may be interested in additional methods for incentivizing
use of a payment card.        Thus, the present inventor believes there is a need for
additional systems and methods for providing incentives to consumers for use of a
payment card.
It is generally desirable to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the above
described difficulties, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
Summary of the Invention
According to the present invention, there is provided a computer-implemented
method for awarding a time-based incremental reward for a payment transaction,
comprising:
       storing, in a reward database device of a computer system, a reward rule,
wherein the reward rule includes at least a reward base amount, an increase
amount, and a predetermined period of time, wherein the computer system is
positioned within a transaction system such that it is configured to communicate
between a payment card issuer and a merchant, via a payment network;
       storing, in a transaction database device of the computer system, a first
transaction data entry of a consumer, wherein the first transaction data entry
includes data related to a completed transaction including at least a transaction time
and/or date of the completed transaction;
       receiving, by a receiving device of the computer system, from the payment
network, transaction data for a payment transaction between the consumer and the
merchant, wherein the transaction data includes at least a time and/or date of the
payment transaction;
       determining, by a processing device of the computer system, whether the time
and/or date in said received transaction data is within the predetermined period of

                                              -3
the transaction time and/or date included in the first transaction data entry of the
consumer stored in the transaction database device; and
         in response to determining that the time and/or date in said received
transaction data is within the predetermined period of the transaction time and/or
date included in the first transaction data entry of the consumer stored in the
transaction database device, awarding, by the processing device of the computer
system, a reward amount for the payment transaction by incrementing the reward
base amount by said increase amount, included in the reward rule stored in the
reward database device of the computer system.
According to the present invention, there is also provided a network transaction
system for awarding a time-based incremental reward for a payment transaction,
comprising:
         a reward database device, of a computer system, configured to store a reward
rule, wherein the reward rule includes at least a reward base amount, an increase
amount, and a predetermined period of time, wherein the computer system is
positioned within the network transaction system such that it is configured to
communicate between a payment card issuer and a merchant, via a payment
network;
         a transaction database device, of the computer system, configured to store a
first transaction data entry of a consumer, wherein the first transaction data entry
includes data related to a completed transaction including at least a transaction time
and/or date of the completed transaction;
         a receiving device, of the computer system, configured to receive transaction
data, from the payment network, for a payment transaction between the consumer
and a merchant, wherein the transaction data includes at least a time and/or date of
the payment transaction; and
         a processing device, of the computer system, configured to
                determine whether the time and/or date in said received transaction
         data is within the predetermined period, included in the reward rule, of the

                                                 -4
         transaction time and/or date included in the first transaction data entry of the
         consumer stored in the transaction database device, and
                 awarding a reward amount for the payment transaction by incrementing
         the reward base amount by said increase amount, included in the reward rule
         stored in the reward database device of the computer system, in response to
         determining that the time and/or date included in the received transaction data
         is within the predetermined period of time of the transaction time and/or date
         included in the first transaction data entry of the consumer.
The present disclosure provides a description of systems and methods for awarding
time-based incremental rewards for a payment transaction.
A method for awarding time-based incremental rewards for a payment transaction
includes: storing, in a reward database, a reward rule, wherein the reward rule
includes at least a base amount, an increase amount, and a predetermined period of
time; storing, in a transaction database, a first transaction data entry, wherein the
first transaction data entry includes data related to a completed transaction including
at least a transaction time and/or date; receiving, by a receiving device, transaction
data for a payment transaction, wherein the transaction data includes at least a time
and/or date; and identifying, by a processing device, a reward amount for the
payment transaction if the time and/or date included in the received transaction data
is within the predetermined period of time of the transaction time and/or date
included in the first transaction data entry, wherein the reward amount is based on at
least the base amount and increase amount included in the reward rule.
A system for awarding time-based incremental rewards for a payment transaction
includes a reward database, a transaction database, a receiving device, and a
processing device.       The reward database is configured to store a reward rule,
wherein the reward rule includes at least a base amount, an increase amount, and a
predetermined period of time. The transaction database is configured to store a first
transaction data entry, wherein the first transaction data entry includes data related

                                               -5
to a completed transaction including at least a transaction time and/or date. The
receiving device is configured to receive transaction data for a payment transaction,
wherein the transaction data includes at least a time and/or date. The processing
device is configured to identify a reward amount for the payment transaction if the
time    and/or date     included  in the   received   transaction   data   is within the
predetermined period of time of the transaction time and/or date included in the first
transaction data entry. The reward amount is based on at least the base amount
and increase amount included in the reward rule.
Brief Description of the Drawing
Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereafter described, by way of
non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
FIG. 1 is a high level architecture illustrating a system for awarding time-based
incremental rewards for a payment transaction;
FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating the processing server of FIG. 1 for the
identification of an incremental time-based reward amount for a payment transaction;
FIG. 3 is a flow diagram illustrating a process for the awarding of time-based
incremental rewards for a payment transaction using the system of FIG. 1;
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating a process for identification a reward amount for a
payment transaction using the processing server of FIG. 2;
FIG. 5 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for awarding time-based
incremental rewards for a payment transaction; and
FIG. 6 is a block diagram illustrating a computer system architecture.
Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the
detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed
description of exemplary embodiments are intended for illustration purposes only
and are, therefore, not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

                                            -6
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
Definition of Terms
Payment Network - A system or network used for the transfer of money via the use
of cash-substitutes. Payment networks may use a variety of different protocols and
procedures in order to process the transfer of money for various types of
transactions.   Transactions that may be performed via a payment network may
include product or service purchases, credit purchases, debit transactions, fund
transfers, account withdrawals, etc.    Payment networks may be configured to
perform transactions via cash-substitutes, which may include payment cards, letters
of credit, checks, financial accounts, etc.     Examples of networks or systems
configured to perform as payment networks include those operated by MasterCard®,
VISA®, Discover®, American Express®, PayPal*, etc.       Use of the term "payment
network" herein may refer to both the payment network as an entity, and the physical
payment network, such as the equipment, hardware, and software comprising the
payment network.
Payment Account - A financial account that may be used to fund a transaction, such
as a checking account, savings account, credit account, virtual payment account,
etc. A payment account may be associated with an entity, which may include a
person, family, company, corporation, governmental entity, etc. In some instances, a
payment account may be virtual, such as those accounts operated by PayPal*, etc.
Payment Card - A card or data associated with a payment account that may be
provided to a merchant in order to fund a financial transaction via the associated
payment account.     Payment cards may include credit cards, debit cards, charge
cards, stored-value cards, prepaid cards, fleet cards, virtual payment numbers,
virtual card numbers, controlled payment numbers, etc. A payment card may be a
physical card that may be provided to a merchant, or may be data representing the
associated payment account (e.g., as stored in a communication device, such as a

                                               -7
smart phone or computer).          For example, in some instances, data including a
payment account number may be considered a payment card for the processing of a
transaction funded by the associated payment account. In some instances, a check
may be considered a payment card where applicable.
Merchant - An entity that provides products (e.g., goods and/or services) for
purchase by another entity, such as a consumer or another merchant. A merchant
may be a consumer, a retailer, a wholesaler, a manufacturer, or any other type of
entity that may provide products for purchase as will be apparent to persons having
skill in the relevant art. In some instances, a merchant may have special knowledge
in the goods and/or services provided for purchase. In other instances, a merchant
may not have or require and special knowledge in offered products.                In some
embodiments, an entity involved in a single transaction may be considered a
merchant.
Issuer - An entity that establishes (e.g., opens) a letter or line of credit in favor of a
beneficiary, and honors drafts drawn by the beneficiary against the amount specified
in the letter or line of credit. In many instances, the issuer may be a bank or other
financial institution authorized to open lines of credit. In some instances, any entity
that may extend a line of credit to a beneficiary may be considered an issuer. The
line of credit opened by the issuer may be represented in the form of a payment
account, and may be drawn on by the beneficiary via the use of a payment card. An
issuer may also offer additional types of payment accounts to consumers as will be
apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art, such as debit accounts, prepaid
accounts, electronic wallet accounts, savings accounts, checking accounts, etc., and
may provide consumers with physical or non-physical means for accessing and/or
utilizing such an account, such as debit cards, prepaid cards, automated teller
machine cards, electronic wallets, checks, etc.
Acquirer - An entity that may process payment card transactions on behalf of a
merchant.     The acquirer may be a bank or other financial institution authorized to

                                               -8
process payment card transactions on a merchant's behalf. In many instances, the
acquirer may open a line of credit with the merchant acting as a beneficiary. The
acquirer may exchange funds with an issuer in instances where a consumer, which
may be a beneficiary to a line of credit offered by the issuer, transacts via a payment
card with a merchant that is represented by the acquirer.
Payment Transaction - A transaction between two entities in which money or other
financial benefit is exchanged from one entity to the other. The payment transaction
may be a transfer of funds, for the purchase of goods or services, for the repayment
of debt, or for any other exchange of financial benefit as will be apparent to persons
having skill in the relevant art. In some instances, payment transaction may refer to
transactions funded via a payment card and/or payment account, such as credit card
transactions. Such payment transactions may be processed via an issuer, payment
network, and acquirer. The process for processing such a payment transaction may
include at least one of authorization, batching, clearing, settlement, and funding.
Authorization may include the furnishing of payment details by the consumer to a
merchant, the submitting of transaction details (e.g., including the payment details)
from the merchant to their acquirer, and the verification of payment details with the
issuer of the consumer's payment account used to fund the transaction.          Batching
may refer to the storing of an authorized transaction in a batch with other authorized
transactions for distribution to an acquirer.      Clearing may include the sending of
batched transactions from the acquirer to a payment network for processing.
Settlement may include the debiting of the issuer by the payment network for
transactions involving beneficiaries of the issuer. In some instances, the issuer may
pay the acquirer via the payment network.        In other instances, the issuer may pay
the acquirer directly.    Funding may include payment to the merchant from the
acquirer for the payment transactions that have been cleared and settled. It will be
apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art that the order and/or
categorization of the steps discussed above performed              as part of payment
transaction processing.

                                            -9
System for Awarding Time-Based Incremental Rewards
FIG. 1 illustrates a system 100 for the awarding of time-based incremental rewards
for a payment transaction.
The system 100 may include a consumer 102.         The consumer 102 may have a
payment account with an issuer 110. The issuer 110 may issue a payment card to
the consumer 102 that is associated with the payment account, which the consumer
102 may use to conduct payment transactions to be funded by the associated
payment account. The payment card may be further associated with a program for
awarding incremental, time-based rewards, which may be implemented using the
systems and methods discussed herein.
The consumer 102 may engage in a payment transaction with a merchant 104. As
part of the payment transaction, the consumer 102 may present the payment card
and/or payment details corresponding to the associated payment account using
methods and systems that will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.
For example, the consumer 102 may present a physical payment card for payment,
pay a wallet application on a mobile device (e.g., using a machine-readable code,
near field communication, etc.), or other suitable method for conveying payment
account details.
The merchant 104 may receive the payment information, and may transmit the
payment information and transaction data to an acquirer 106. The acquirer 106 may
generate an authorization request for the payment transaction, which may be
submitted to a payment network 108. The payment network 108 may receive the
authorization request and may process the request using methods and systems that
will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.     Processing of the
authorization request may include transmitting transaction data to the issuer 110,
who may then identify if the associated payment account includes a suitable amount
of credit and/or funds for the payment transaction.     In some embodiments, the

                                             -10
acquirer 106 may communicate directly with the issuer 110 for approval or denial of
the payment transaction.
Once the transaction has been processed, an authorization response may be routed
to the merchant 104 (e.g., via the acquirer 106). The merchant 104 may then finalize
the transaction with the consumer 102, such as by furnishing the requested goods
and/or services, providing a receipt to the consumer 102, etc. It will be apparent to
persons having skill in the relevant art that the payment transaction between the
consumer 102 and merchant 104 may be an in-person transaction (e.g., at a
physical location of the merchant 104) or may be a remote transaction, such as via
the Internet, telephone, mail, etc.
The payment network 108 and/or the issuer 110 may provide transaction data for the
payment transaction to a reward processor 112.          The reward processor 112,
discussed in more detail below, may be configured to identify a reward amount to be
awarded to the consumer 102 based on the payment transaction. The award may
be for an incremental, time-based reward that starts at a base amount and increases
by a specific increase amount over time with each new transaction. For example, a
first transaction may receive 1 point per dollar spent, a second transaction may
receive 1.2 points per dollar spent if performed within 24 hours of the first
transaction, a third transaction may receive 1.4 points per dollar spent if performed
within 24 hours of the second transaction, etc. In another example, the reward may
increase for a set period of time.     For instance, an increase may be applied to
transactions for a first 24 hour period following a transaction, and then another
increase for a second 24 hour period if a transaction was conducted during the first
period.
Once the reward amount is identified by the reward processor 112, the reward
processor 112 may notify the issuer 110 of the reward amount.                In some
embodiments, the reward processor 112 may also notify the consumer 102, such as
via a computing device 114. The computing device may be any type of computing

                                             - 11
device suitable for receiving data and displaying data to the consumer 102, such as
a desktop computer, laptop computer, cellular phone, smart phone, etc.
In some embodiments, the reward processor 112 may be part of the payment
network 108 and/or the issuer 110. In instances where the reward processor 112 is
part of the payment network 108, the reward amount for the payment transaction
may be identified using transaction data included in the authorization request
received from the acquirer 106 and/or the merchant 104.        In instances where the
reward processor 112 is part of the issuer 110, the reward processor may store a
consumer profile associated with the consumer 102, and may update a reward
amount associated with the consumer 102 based on the reward earned in the
payment transaction.
The incremental, time-based rewards awarded to the consumer 102 for the payment
transaction may be in the form of points, cash back, coupons, deals, or any other
suitable form of award as will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.
For example, as discussed above, points may be awarded to the consumer 102 and
may increase over time.       In another example, coupons may be awarded to the
consumer 102 with one or more properties of the coupon increasing over time, such
as a larger discount, larger maximum transaction amount limit, lower minimum
transaction amount, higher use quantity, etc.
In some instances, the consumer 102 may first sign up to be eligible for rewards.
For example, the consumer 102 may register with the issuer 110 and/or reward
processor 112 in order for payment transactions to be considered eligible for the
awarding of rewards. In some embodiments, the consumer 102 may be required to
register each time a new reward rule established. For instance, the issuer 110 may
start a new promotion where incremental, time-based rewards are available for
transactions, but transactions may be ineligible until the consumer 102 actively signs
up for the promotion (e.g., via the computing device 114).

                                              - 12
The use of time-based, incremental rewards may incentivize consumers to use a
payment card when they may have otherwise used a different payment method or
instrument.    The incrementing of a reward over time may not only influence a
consumer to use an associated payment card, but may also influence continual use
of the card. Additional considerations may be used to affect the rewards to further
influence consumers regarding merchants, locations, or times.             For example,
rewards may be incremented over time and based on a geographic location of the
transactions, such as incrementing for transactions conducted at nearby merchants
to a first merchant. In some instances, the issuer 110 may set limits on the rewards
to incentivize consumers without negatively affecting the issuer 110 or merchants
104, such as due to an overabundance of awarded rewards.               For example, an
incremental, time-based reward may be effective only during a certain period of time,
may have a maximum increase amount, or may have associated transaction amount
limits.   Additional criteria that may be associated with incremental, time-based
rewards as discussed herein will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant
art.
Reward Processor
FIG. 2 illustrates an embodiment of the reward processor 112 of the system 100. It
will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art that the embodiment of the
reward processor 112illustrated in FIG. 2 is provided as illustration only and may not
be exhaustive to all possible configurations of the reward processor 112suitable for
performing the functions as discussed herein.       For example, the computer system
600 illustrated in FIG. 6 and discussed in more detail below may be a suitable
configuration of the reward processor 112.
The reward processor 112 may include a receiving unit 202. The receiving unit 202
may be configured to receive data over one or more networks via one or more
network protocols. The receiving unit 202 may receive reward information from the
issuer 110 regarding a reward program to be conducted to award consumers 102

                                             -13
with incremental, time-based rewards. The reward information may include at least
a base amount, an increase amount, and a predetermined period of time.
The reward processor 112 may include a processing unit 204. The processing unit
204 may be configured to identify the data included in the reward information and
store the data in a reward database 208 as a reward rule 210. The reward rule 210
may include at least the base amount, increase amount, and predetermined period
of time, and may further include any other suitable information regarding the
associated reward.       For example, the reward rule 210 may further include a
maximum amount (e.g., where the reward may not exceed the maximum amount), a
time limit (e.g., where rewards may not be awarded after the time limit), a transaction
limit (e.g., a maximum number of transactions for which rewards may be awarded
during each predetermined period of time), etc.
The receiving unit 202 may receive transaction data for a payment transaction, such
as from the payment network 108, issuer 110, merchant 104, or acquirer 106. The
transaction data may include at least a time and/or date of the transaction, such as
the time and/or date when the transaction was authorized, processed, cleared,
initiated, etc.   The processing unit 204 may be configured to store the received
transaction data in a transaction database 212 as a transaction data entry 214. The
transaction data entry 214 may include data related to the payment transaction
including at least the time and/or date.     Additional transaction data that may be
received by the receiving unit 202 and stored in the transaction data entry 214 may
include a transaction amount, consumer identifier, merchant data, product data, or
other suitable data as will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.
The processing unit 204 may be further configured to identify if a payment
transaction for which transaction data is received is eligible for rewards based on the
reward rule 210. Methods and processes for identifying the eligibility of a payment
transaction for rewards will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.
For example, the processing unit 204 may identify if a transaction amount for the

                                              - 14
payment transaction exceeds a minimum transaction amount included in the reward
rule 210.    In another example, the payment transaction may be required to be
conducted at a geographic location (e.g., as included in the received transaction
data) within a predetermined distance of a prior transaction, such as multiple
transactions conducted within a shopping mall. If the payment transaction is eligible,
the processing unit 204 may be configured to identify a reward amount for the
transaction.
As discussed in more detail below, the reward amount may be the base amount
included in the reward rule 210, or may be further increased by the increase amount
based on prior eligible transactions involving the consumer 102.       Identification of
prior eligible transactions involving the consumer 102 may include identifying
transaction data entries 214 stored in the transaction database 212 for payment
transactions    involving the  consumer      102    that were  conducted   within    the
predetermined period of time, as set in the reward rule 210, of the newly conducted
payment transaction. For example, if the predetermined period of time is 24 hours,
then the processing unit 204 may identify if any eligible transactions were conducted
within the previous 24 hours to the present payment transaction.
If prior transactions were identified, then the reward amount may be based on the
base amount and the increase amount. In some instances, the reward amount may
be further based on an amount awarded in the prior payment transaction.              For
example, the increase amount may be applied to the amount awarded in the prior
payment transaction such as the reward             continues to increment with each
subsequent payment transaction. In another example, the increase amount may be
applied to the base amount a number of times based on criteria included in the
reward rule 210, such as increasing for each consecutive predetermined period of
time for which a payment transaction was conducted prior to the present payment
transaction.

                                              -15
The reward processor 112 may further include a transmitting unit 206.             The
transmitting unit 206 may be configured to transmit data over one or more networks
via one or more network protocols.        The transmitting unit 206 may transmit the
identified reward amount to the issuer 110 for awarding to the consumer 102.         In
some embodiments, the transmitting unit 206 may be configured to transmit a
notification to the consumer 102 (e.g., via the computing device 114) notifying the
consumer 102 of the earned reward amount. The transmitting unit 206 may also be
configured to transmit a notification to the consumer 102 notifying the consumer 102
of the reward being offered. For instance, the transmitting unit 206 may transmit a
notification to the consumer 102 regarding a new reward program when new reward
information is received by the receiving unit 202. The notification may include details
regarding the reward, the incremental increase in points, the time period(s) involved,
etc.
In some embodiments, the reward processor 112 may further include a consumer
database 216. The consumer database 216 may be configured to store a consumer
profile 218 associated with the consumer 102. The consumer profile 218 may store
data related to the consumer 102 including at least a consumer identifier and a total
reward amount. The consumer identifier may be a unique value associated with the
consumer 102 and/or the consumer profile 218 for use in identifying the consumer
102. The consumer identifier may be a payment account number, payment card
number, username, e-mail address, phone number, or other suitable value as will be
apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art. The consumer identifier may be
included in each transaction data entry 214 that is associated with a payment
transaction involving the consumer 102, such as for use in identifying prior
transactions involving the consumer 102.
The total reward amount may be a cumulative total reward amount awarded to the
consumer 102 that the consumer 102 may redeem. When a reward amount for a
new payment transaction is identified, the processing unit 204 may be configured to
update the total reward amount included in the consumer profile 218 based on the

                                             -16
new reward amount. In some instances, when the total reward amount is updated,
the transmitting unit 206 may transmit a notification to the issuer 110 and/or the
consumer 102 regarding the updated total reward amount.
The reward processor 112 may further include a memory 220.          The memory 220
may be configured to store any additional data suitable for use by the processing unit
204 or other units of the reward processor 112 for performing the functions as
disclosed herein. For example, the memory 220 may store algorithms for use by the
processing unit 204 in identifying reward amounts, data for use in generating
notifications to be transmitted to the issuer 110, consumer 102, and/or computing
device 114, etc.
Process for Awarding Incremental, Time-Based Rewards
FIG. 3 illustrates a process for the awarding of incremental, time-based rewards to
the consumer 102 using the system 100 of FIG. 1, discussed above. In the process
illustrated in FIG. 3 and discussed below, the reward processor 112 may be included
as part of the payment network 108.
In step 302, the consumer 102 may initiate a payment transaction with the merchant
104. As part of the initiation of the payment transaction, the consumer 102 may
provide payment details associated with a payment account that is eligible rewards
to the merchant 104. In step 304, the merchant 104 may enter transaction data for
the transaction, including the payment details, in a point of sale.   In step 306, an
authorization request may be generated and submitted to the reward processor 112.
In some instances, the authorization request may be generated and submitted by the
acquirer 106 on behalf of the merchant 104. The authorization request may include
transaction data for the payment transaction, including at least the payment details
and a time and/or date.

                                             -17
In step 308, the reward processor 112 (e.g., as part of the payment network 108)
may process the payment transaction using methods and systems that will be
apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.    In step 310, an authorization
response indicating approval of the payment transaction may be transmitted to the
merchant 104 (e.g., via the acquirer 106).       In step 312, the merchant 104 may
finalize the payment transaction with the consumer 102, such as by furnishing the
transacted-for products to the consumer 102.
In step 314, the reward processor 112 may identify a reward amount for the payment
transaction using the methods and systems discussed herein, such as the method
illustrated in FIG. 4 and discussed in more detail below. In step 316, the transmitting
unit 206 of the reward processor 112 may transmit the reward amount to the issuer
110. In step 318, the issuer 110 may update a consumer reward profile associated
with the consumer 102 based on the identified reward amount received from the
reward processor 112.      The issuer 110 may also, in step 320, transmit a reward
notification to the consumer 102, notifying the consumer 102 of the reward points
awarded from the payment transaction.
Process for Identifying an Incremental, Time-Based Reward Amount
FIG. 4 illustrates a process 400 for the identification of an incremental, time-based
reward amount by the reward processor 112.
In step 402, the receiving unit 202 of the reward processor 112 may receive
transaction data for a payment transaction involving the consumer 102.             The
transaction data may include at least a time and/or date for the payment transaction.
In step 404, the processing unit 204 of the reward processor 112 may determine if
the payment transaction is eligible for rewards. The determination of eligibility may
be based on additional information including in the transaction data, and information
including in the reward rule 210 stored in the reward database 208. If the payment

                                                 -18
transaction is not eligible for rewards, then the process 400 may be finished, though
the transaction will likely continue.
If the payment transaction is eligible, then, in step 406, the processing unit 204 may
identify if the consumer 102 conducted any prior transactions based on the criteria
included in the reward rule 210.        Identification of prior transactions may include
identifying at least one transaction data entry 214 stored in the transaction database
212 that has an included transaction time and/or date within a predetermined period
of time of the time and/or date included in the received transaction data.             The
predetermined period of time may be included in the reward rule 210.               In some
embodiments, if a prior transaction is identified, the processing unit 204 may identify
other transactions that were conducted prior to the identified prior transaction.        In
one embodiment, identified prior transactions may be required to be eligible with one
or more criteria, such as being within a predetermined distance of a geographic
location of the present transaction.
In step 408, the processing unit 204 may determine if any eligible prior transactions
were identified in the previous step. If no prior transactions were identified (e.g., the
present transaction is the first eligible transaction), then, in step 410, the processing
unit 204 may identify the base amount included in the reward rule 210 as the reward
to be awarded to the consumer 102.          If prior transactions were identified, then, in
step 412, the reward amount may be based on at least the base amount and an
increase amount included in the reward rule 210. In some embodiments, the reward
amount may be based on a reward amount awarded for the identified prior
transaction and the increase amount included in the reward rule 210.
In step 414, the transmitting unit 206 of the reward processor 112 may transmit the
identified reward amount (e.g., the base amount or an identified increased amount)
to the issuer 110 for use in updating a reward profile of the consumer 102. In step
416, the transmitting unit 206 may also transmit a notification to the consumer 102
(e.g., via the computing device 114), notifying the consumer 102 of the awarded

                                             -19
reward amount. It will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art that step
416 may be an optional step.
Exemplary Method for Awarding Time-Based Incremental Rewards
FIG. 5 illustrates a method 500 for awarding time-based, incremental rewards for a
payment transaction.
In step 502, a reward rule (e.g., the reward rule 210) may be stored in a reward
database (e.g., the reward database 208), wherein the reward rule 210 includes at
least a base amount, an increase amount, and a predetermined period of time. In
step 504, a first transaction data entry (e.g., transaction data entry 214) may be
stored in a transaction database (e.g., the transaction database 212), wherein the
first transaction data entry 214 includes data related to a completed transaction
including at least a transaction time and/or date. In step 506, transaction data for a
payment transaction may be received by a receiving device (e.g., the receiving unit
202), wherein the transaction data includes at least a time and/or date.
In step 508, a reward amount for the payment transaction may be identified, by a
processing device (e.g., the processing unit 204), if the time and/or date included in
the received transaction data is within the predetermined period of time of the
transaction time and/or date included in the first transaction data entry 214, wherein
the reward amount is based on at least the base amount and the increase amount
included in the reward rule 210. In some embodiments, the method 500 may further
include transmitting, by a transmitting device (e.g., the transmitting unit 206), the
identified reward amount.     In one embodiment, the received transaction data may
further include a reward amount, and the reward amount may be further based on
the transaction amount included in the received transaction data.              In some
embodiments, the reward rule 210 may further include a minimum transaction
amount, the received transaction data may further include a transaction amount, and
the reward amount may not be identified if the transaction amount included in the

                                             - 20
received transaction data does not exceed the minimum transaction amount included
in the reward rule 210.
In one embodiment, the method 500 may further include storing, in the transaction
database 212, a second transaction data entry 214, wherein the second transaction
data entry 214 includes data related to the payment transaction including the time
and/or date included in the received transaction data and the identified reward
amount.      In an even further embodiment, the method 500 may also include:
receiving, by the receiving device 202, new transaction data for a new payment
transaction, wherein the new transaction data includes a new time and/or date; and
identifying, by the processing device 204, a new reward amount for the new payment
transaction if the new time and/or date included in the received new transaction data
is within the predetermined period of time of the time and/or date included in the
second transaction data entry 214, wherein the new reward amount is based on at
least the reward amount included in the second transaction data entry 214 and the
increase amount included in the reward rule 210.
In some embodiments, the method 500 may further include: storing, in a consumer
database (e.g., the consumer database 216), a consumer profile (e.g., the consumer
profile 218), wherein the consumer profile 218 includes data related to a consumer
(e.g., the consumer 102) involved in the payment transaction and includes at least a
reward total; and updating, in the consumer profile 218, the reward total based on
the identified reward amount.    In a further embodiment, the consumer profile 218
may further include contact information, and the method 500 may even further
include transmitting, by the transmitting device 206, a notification to the consumer
102 involved in the payment transaction, wherein the notification includes at least the
identified reward amount.
Computer System Architecture

                                              - 21
FIG. 6 illustrates a computer system 600 in which embodiments of the present
disclosure, or portions thereof, may be implemented as computer-readable code.
For example, the reward processor 112 of FIG. 1 may be implemented in the
computer system 600 using hardware, software, firmware, non-transitory computer
readable media having instructions stored thereon, or a combination thereof and
may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems.
Hardware, software, or any combination thereof may embody modules and
components used to implement the methods of FIGS. 3-5.
If programmable logic is used, such logic may execute on a commercially available
processing platform or a special purpose device. A person having ordinary skill in the
art may appreciate that embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be
practiced   with  various   computer    system     configurations, including multi-core
multiprocessor systems, minicomputers, mainframe computers, computers linked or
clustered with distributed functions, as well as pervasive or miniature computers that
may be embedded into virtually any device. For instance, at least one processor
device and a memory may be used to implement the above described embodiments.
A processor unit or device as discussed herein may be a single processor, a plurality
of processors, or combinations thereof. Processor devices may have one or more
processor "cores." The terms "computer program medium," "non-transitory computer
readable medium," and "computer usable medium" as discussed herein are used to
generally refer to tangible media such as a removable storage unit 618, a removable
storage unit 622, and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive 612.
Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described in terms of this
example computer system 600. After reading this description, it will become
apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the present
disclosure using other computer systems and/or computer architectures. Although
operations may be described as a sequential process, some of the operations may in
fact be performed in parallel, concurrently, and/or in a distributed environment, and

                                              - 22
with program code stored locally or remotely for access by single or multi-processor
machines. In addition, in some embodiments the order of operations may be
rearranged without departing from the spirit of the disclosed subject matter.
Processor device 604 may be a special purpose or a general purpose processor
device.     The processor device 604 may be connected to a communications
infrastructure 606, such as a bus, message queue, network, multi-core message
passing scheme, etc. The network may be any network suitable for performing the
functions as disclosed herein and may include a local area network (LAN), a wide
area network (WAN), a wireless network (e.g., WiFi), a mobile communication
network, a satellite network, the Internet, fiber optic, coaxial cable, infrared, radio
frequency (RF), or any combination thereof.          Other suitable network types and
configurations will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.       The
computer system 600 may also include a main memory 608 (e.g., random access
memory, read-only memory, etc.), and may also include a secondary memory 610.
The secondary memory 610 may include the hard disk drive 612 and a removable
storage drive 614, such as a floppy disk drive, a magnetic tape drive, an optical disk
drive, a flash memory, etc.
The removable storage drive 614 may read from and/or write to the removable
storage unit 618 in a well-known manner. The removable storage unit 618 may
include a removable storage media that may be read by and written to by the
removable storage drive 614. For example, if the removable storage drive 614 is a
floppy disk drive or universal serial bus port, the removable storage unit 618 may be
a floppy disk or portable flash drive, respectively. In one embodiment, the removable
storage unit 618 may be non-transitory computer readable recording media.
In some embodiments, the secondary memory 610 may include alternative means
for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into the computer
system 600, for example, the removable storage unit 622 and an interface 620.
Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface

                                             - 23
(e.g., as found in video game systems), a removable memory chip (e.g., EEPROM,
PROM, etc.) and associated socket, and other removable storage units 622 and
interfaces 620 as will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.
Data stored in the computer system 600 (e.g., in the main memory 608 and/or the
secondary memory 610) may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable
media, such as optical storage (e.g., a compact disc, digital versatile disc, Blu-ray
disc, etc.) or magnetic tape storage (e.g., a hard disk drive).       The data may be
configured in any type of suitable database configuration, such as a relational
database, a structured query language (SQL) database, a distributed database, an
object database, etc. Suitable configurations and storage types will be apparent to
persons having skill in the relevant art.
The computer system 600 may also include a communications interface 624. The
communications interface 624 may be configured to allow software and data to be
transferred between the computer system 600 and external devices. Exemplary
communications interfaces 624 may include a modem, a network interface (e.g., an
Ethernet card), a communications port, a PCMCIA slot and card, etc. Software and
data transferred via the communications interface 624 may be in the form of signals,
which may be electronic, electromagnetic, optical, or other signals as will be
apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art. The signals may travel via a
communications path 626, which may be configured to carry the signals and may be
implemented using wire, cable, fiber optics, a phone line, a cellular phone link, a
radio frequency link, etc.
The computer system 600 may further include a display interface 602. The display
interface 602 may be configured to allow data to be transferred between the
computer system 600 and external display 630. Exemplary display interfaces 602
may include high-definition multimedia interface (HDMI), digital visual interface (DVI),
video graphics array (VGA), etc.      The display 630 may be any suitable type of
display for displaying data transmitted via the display interface 602 of the computer

                                              - 24
system 600, including a cathode ray tube (CRT) display, liquid crystal display (LCD),
light-emitting diode (LED) display, capacitive touch display, thin-film transistor (TFT)
display, etc.
Computer program medium and computer usable medium may refer to memories,
such as the main memory 608 and secondary memory 610, which may be memory
semiconductors (e.g., DRAMs, etc.). These computer program products may be
means for providing software to the computer system 600.           Computer programs
(e.g., computer control logic) may be stored in the main memory 608 and/or the
secondary memory 610. Computer programs may also be received via the
communications interface 624. Such computer programs, when executed, may
enable computer system 600 to implement the present methods as discussed
herein. In particular, the computer programs, when executed, may enable processor
device 604 to implement the methods illustrated by FIGS. 3-5, as discussed herein.
Accordingly, such computer programs may represent controllers of the computer
system 600.      Where the present disclosure is implemented using software, the
software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into the computer
system 600 using the removable storage drive 614, interface 620, and hard disk
drive 612, or communications interface 624.
Techniques consistent with the present disclosure provide, among other features,
systems and methods for awarding time-based incremental rewards for a payment
transaction.   While various exemplary embodiments of the disclosed system and
method have been described above it should be understood that they have been
presented for purposes of example only, not limitations.      It is not exhaustive and
does not limit the disclosure to the precise form disclosed.          Modifications and
variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from
practicing of the disclosure, without departing from the breadth or scope.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and

                                            - 25
 comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group
of integers or steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication
(or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                            - 26
Claims Defining the Invention
1.     A computer-implemented method for awarding a time-based incremental
reward for a payment transaction, comprising:
       storing, in a reward database device of a computer system, a reward rule,
wherein the reward rule includes at least a reward base amount, an increase
amount, and a predetermined period of time, wherein the computer system is
positioned within a transaction system such that it is configured to communicate
between a payment card issuer and a merchant, via a payment network;
       storing, in a transaction database device of the computer system, a first
transaction data entry of a consumer, wherein the first transaction data entry
includes data related to a completed transaction including at least a transaction time
and/or date of the completed transaction;
       receiving, by a receiving device of the computer system, from the payment
network, transaction data for a payment transaction between the consumer and the
merchant, wherein the transaction data includes at least a time and/or date of the
payment transaction;
       determining, by a processing device of the computer system, whether the time
and/or date in said received transaction data is within the predetermined period of
the transaction time and/or date included in the first transaction data entry of the
consumer stored in the transaction database device; and
       in response to determining that the time and/or date in said received
transaction data is within the predetermined period of the transaction time and/or
date included in the first transaction data entry of the consumer stored in the
transaction database device, awarding, by the processing device of the computer
system, a reward amount for the payment transaction by incrementing the reward
base amount by said increase amount, included in the reward rule stored in the
reward database device of the computer system.
2.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:

                                              - 27
        storing, in the transaction database device, a second transaction data entry,
wherein the second transaction data entry includes data related to the payment
transaction including the time and/or date included in the received transaction data
and the identified reward amount.
3.      The method of claim 2, further comprising:
        receiving, by the receiving device, new transaction data for a new payment
transaction, wherein the new transaction data includes a new time and/or date; and
        identifying, by the processing device, a new reward amount for the new
payment transaction if the new time and/or date included in the received new
transaction data is within the predetermined period of time of the time and/or date
included in the second transaction data entry, wherein
        the new reward amount is based on at least the reward amount included in
the second transaction data entry and the increase amount included in the reward
rule.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein
        the received transaction data further includes a transaction amount, and
        the reward amount is further based on the transaction amount included in the
received transaction data.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein
        the reward rule further includes a minimum transaction amount,
        the received transaction data further includes a transaction amount, and
        the reward amount is not identified if the transaction amount included in the
received transaction data does not exceed the minimum transaction amount included
in the reward rule.
6.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:

                                                - 28
         storing, in a consumer database device of the computer system, a consumer
profile, wherein the consumer profile includes data related to the consumer involved
in the payment transaction and includes at least a reward total; and
         updating, in the consumer profile, the reward total based on the identified
reward amount.
7.       The method of claim 6, wherein the consumer profile further includes contact
information, and the method further comprises:
         transmitting, by a transmitting device of the computer system, a notification to
a computing device of the consumer involved in the payment transaction, wherein
the notification includes at least the identified reward amount.
8.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         transmitting, by a transmitting device of the computer system, the identified
reward amount to a computing device of the consumer.
9.       A network transaction system for awarding a time-based incremental reward
for a payment transaction, comprising:
         a reward database device, of a computer system, configured to store a reward
rule, wherein the reward rule includes at least a reward base amount, an increase
amount, and a predetermined period of time, wherein the computer system is
positioned within the network transaction system such that it is configured to
communicate between a payment card issuer and a merchant, via a payment
network;
         a transaction database device, of the computer system, configured to store a
first transaction data entry of a consumer, wherein the first transaction data entry
includes data related to a completed transaction including at least a transaction time
and/or date of the completed transaction;
         a receiving device, of the computer system, configured to receive transaction
data, from the payment network, for a payment transaction between the consumer

                                               - 29
and a merchant, wherein the transaction data includes at least a time and/or date of
the payment transaction; and
        a processing device, of the computer system, configured to
        determine whether the time and/or date in said received transaction data is
within the predetermined period, included in the reward rule, of the transaction time
and/or date included in the first transaction data entry of the consumer stored in the
transaction database device, and
        awarding a reward amount for the payment transaction by incrementing the
reward base amount by said increase amount, included in the reward rule stored in
the reward database device of the computer system, in response to determining that
the time and/or date included in the received transaction data is within the
predetermined period of time of the transaction time and/or date included in the first
transaction data entry of the consumer.
10.     The system of claim 9, wherein the processing device is further configured to
store, in the transaction database device, a second transaction data entry, wherein
the second transaction data entry includes data related to the payment transaction
including the time and/or date included in the received transaction data and the
identified reward amount.
11.     The system of claim 10, wherein
        the receiving device is further configured to receive new transaction data for a
new payment transaction, wherein the new transaction data includes a new time
and/or date,
        the processing device is further configured to identify a new reward amount
for the new payment transaction if the new time and/or date included in the received
new transaction data is within the predetermined period of time of the time and/or
date included in the second transaction data entry, and
        the new reward amount is based on at least the reward amount included in
the second transaction data entry and the increase amount included in the reward
rule.

                                              - 30
12.     The system of claim 9, wherein
        the received transaction data further includes a transaction amount, and
the reward amount is further based on the transaction amount included in the
received transaction data.
13.     The system of claim 9, wherein
        the reward rule further includes a minimum transaction amount,
        the received transaction data further includes a transaction amount, and
        the reward amount is not identified if the transaction amount included in the
received transaction data does not exceed the minimum transaction amount included
in the reward rule.
14.     The system of claim 9, further comprising:
        a consumer database device, of the computer system, configured to store a
consumer profile, wherein
        the consumer profile includes data related to a consumer involved in the
payment transaction and includes at least a reward total, and
        the processing device is further configured to update, in the consumer profile,
the reward total based on the identified reward amount.
15.     The system of claim 14, wherein the consumer profile further includes contact
information, and the system further comprises:
        a transmitting device, of the computer system, configured to transmit a
notification to a computing device of the consumer involved in the payment
transaction, wherein the notification includes at least the identified reward amount.
16.     The system of claim 9, further comprising:
        a transmitting device, of the computer system, configured to transmit the
identified reward amount to a computing device of the consumer for display thereon.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
