  ABSTRACT:
  The invention provides a system and method for collecting care
  data pertaining to clients of one or more care providers, the
5 system being in part accessible and operable by said clients
  or on behalf of said clients by respective agents of said
  clients.  The care may be childcare and the clients children.
  FIG. 1

                                                1/12
      0                             0                                                      I
                                   E                                                            a)
                                                                                                E rE
                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                       I
                  F-i
                                           :D                             a)
                                                                                  0-
                                                                                             0}
                                                                                           10 >r     I
                                                                                           I ii Dz
                                                 --           --- ---                           0 4-~~
             0_-1            - a)5           0I0
                         a)          0      22                 C3
                                         -    0      W 0                0      0
    Ii                        a)              a)                                       Ii
         Ia)        a)a)~                             (0-0
                               4--               _a                          .2V
                                       0   a) C        2
                     a)     CD       )            li           0     ")        a)    W
                  (U~       ~~                                    a))_0         )     I
                                                              -2        0 M
1                                                          a)
  10   )
                                                                                        I5i=

          METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR COLLECTING CHILD CARE DATA
   RELATED APPLICATION
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
 5 application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2009267796, which in
   turn is the divisional application of Australian application
   no. 2008903486.   The disclosure of each of application no.
   <removed-apn>, Australian application no. 2009267796 and
10 Australian application no. 2008903486 is incorporated herein
   by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a method and system for
15 collecting child or other care provider data, of particular
   but by no mean exclusive application in providing authorities
   (such as government authorities) with child care  (or other
   care) supply and usage data, particularly in the form of a
   web-based application.
20
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   In existing systems, childcare centre staff manually enter a
   child's details into a database with childcare centre
   management software.   Information is gathered from parents
25 directly, from waitlist application forms and from enrolment
   forms.   This is time consuming, especially as a child's
   details may change without the Childcare Provider (CCP) being
   informed.
30 The CCP staff identify the children who are in attendance in
   the software, and control the software to print invoices for
   parents.   These invoices are settled manually by cash or card
   payment.
35 Thus, existing systems require individual items and pieces of
   information to be manually entered by staff.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   According to a broad aspect of the present invention there is
40 provided a system for collecting care data, such as childcare
   data, pertaining to clients of one or more care providers,

   wherein the system is in part accessible and operable by the
   clients or on behalf of the clients by respective agents of
   the clients.
 5 The care may be is childcare and the clients children.   The
   agents may be parents or guardians.
   In one embodiment, the system comprises a module for
   generating an interface accessible by the care providers over
10 the internet.
   In another embodiment, the system comprises a module for
   generating an interface accessible by the clients or the
   agents over the internet.
15
   In one embodiment, the system includes or is adapted to
   receive data pertaining to the clients from one or more input
   mechanisms selected from the group comprising:
             a manual input mechanism;
20           a swipe input mechanism;
             a touch input mechanism;
             a mobile device input mechanism;
             a biometric input mechanism; and
             an electronic signature input mechanism.
25
   The manual, mobile device, touch, biometric and electronic
   signature input mechanisms typically operate by a methodology
   that identifies which clients are absent, while the tag, touch
   and mobile input mechanisms may operate by a methodology that
30 identifies which clients are in attendance.  In both
   methodologies, a list or data indicative of absent clients on
   a particular day of care is preferably generated; a list or
   data indicative of clients in attendance on that day may also
   be generated.
35
   The one or more input mechanisms may be operable by the
   clients or by the agents.
   In one embodiment, the system is adapted to provide an
40 interface displayable over the internet, and operable by the
   clients or the agents to input attendance information

   pertaining to the respective clients to the system.
   In one embodiment, the system is configured to maintain first
   data indicative of one or more of the clients expected to
 5 attend the care for a specific period, and to receive second
   data indicative of one or more of the clients absent or
   expected to be absent for the specific period, wherein
   attendance for the specific period can be determined from a
   comparison of the first and second data.
10
   The specific period may comprise, for example, a particular
   day; the specific period may be input or defined by a first
   day and a last day of the specific period.
15 In one embodiment, the system comprises an interface
   displayable over the internet, and operable by the clients or
   the agents to input absence information pertaining to the
   respective clients.
20 In another embodiment, the system comprises a swipe input
   mechanism, wherein the swipe input mechanism includes a
   plurality of RFID tags  (which may be contactless) and one or
   more tag readers adapted to read the tags.
25 In one embodiment, the system comprises a mobile device input
   mechanism, adapted to receive attendance or absence data  (such
   as in short messaging service messages) from mobile
   communications devices  (such as mobile telephones).
30 In one embodiment, the system includes a signup module that is
   adapted to construct or assemble data indicative of one or
   more of the clients expected to attend the care for a specific
   period from respective enrolment registrations or schedules of
   the clients.
35
   In a certain embodiment, the system includes a signup module
   that is remotely operable by the clients or the agents
   remotely over the internet to receive details of the clients
   and of any desired guardians of the clients for storage in the
40 system.

   In one embodiment, the system comprises a waitlist module
   operable by the clients or the agents via the internet and
   operable to receive waitlist applications pertaining to the
   clients indicative of care desired for the respective clients.
 5 The waitlist module may be operable by or on behalf of one or
   more of the clients to amend or cancel the respective waitlist
   application.
   In another embodiment, the system comprises a touch input
10 mechanism that comprises one or more touch screens and is
   operable to receive attendance or absence information by
   operation of the touch screens.
   In one embodiment, the system comprises an attendance reminder
15 module for constructing and transmitting electronic reminders
   to one or more care providers, the reminders identifying those
   of the clients due to attend at a time specified in the
   respective reminder.
20 In another embodiment, the system comprises an absence
   indicator module operable by a user to tag one or more clients
   as absent or expected to be absent on a specified day or for a
   specified period.
25 In a particular embodiment, the system comprises a colour
   coding status identifier module configured to control
   displaying respective statuses of the clients to be colour
   coded.   Each respective name of the client may be colour coded
   or displayed against a colour coded field, for example.   The
30 colour coding status identifier module may be configured to
   colour code clients in attendance differently from absent
   clients.
   In another embodiment, the system comprises an allocation
35 module operable by drag and drop to allocate respective
   clients to respective groups.   The groups may correspond to
   respective rooms.   The allocation module may be adapted to
   colour code the groups or the clients according to allocated
   group.
40
   According to another broad aspect, the invention provides a

   method for collecting care data pertaining to clients of one
   or more care providers, comprising receiving data pertaining
   to the clients from the clients or from respective agents of
   the clients.
 5
   The method may include generating an interface displayable to
   the care providers over the internet.
   The method may include generating an interface displayable to
10 the clients or the agents over the internet.
   The method may include receiving the data pertaining to the
   clients from one or more input mechanisms selected from the
   group comprising:
15           a manual input mechanism;
             a swipe input mechanism;
             a touch input mechanism;
             a mobile device input mechanism;
             a biometric input mechanism; and
20           an electronic signature input mechanism.
   The one or more input mechanisms may be operable by the
   clients or by the agents.
25 The method may include displaying an interface over the
   internet, the interface being operable by the clients or the
   agents to submit attendance information pertaining to the
   respective clients.
30 The method may include maintaining first data indicative of
   one or more of the clients expected to attend the care for a
   specific period, and receiving second data indicative of one
   or more of the clients absent or expected to be absent for the
   specific period, wherein attendance for the specific period
35 can be determined from a comparison of the first and second
   data.
   The method may include displaying an interface over the
   internet for operation by the clients or the agents to input
40 absence information pertaining to the respective clients.

   The method may include receiving the data from swipe input
   mechanism, the swipe input mechanism including a plurality of
   RFID tags and one or more tag readers adapted to read the
   tags.
 5
   The method may include receiving the data from a mobile device
   input mechanism, the mobile device input mechanism being
   adapted to receive attendance or absence data from mobile
   communications devices.
10
   The method may include constructing or assembling data
   indicative of one or more of the clients expected to attend
   the care for a specific period from respective enrolment
   registrations or schedules of the clients.
15
   The method may include receiving waitlist applications
   pertaining to one or more of the clients indicative of care
   desired for the respective clients from the clients or the
   agents via the internet.
20
   The method may include tagging one or more of the clients as
   absent or expected to be absent on a specified day or for a
   specified period.
25 The method may include displaying respective statuses of the
   clients as colour coded.
   The method may include receiving group allocation data
   pertaining to the clients by a drag and drop mechanism.
30
   The invention also provides software for controlling a
   computing system to perform the above-described method.
   It should be noted that each of the various features of each
35 of the above aspects of the invention can be combined as
   suitable and desired.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
   In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained,
40 embodiments will now be described, by way of example, with
   reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:

             Figure 1 is a schematic view of a system for
   collecting childcare data according to an embodiment of the
   present invention, together with an input mechanism, user
   terminals, and interfaces with education authorities and local
 5 government/non-profit organizations;
             Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of data flow in the
   system of figure 1;
             Figure 3 is a schematic view of the manual input
   mechanism of the system of figure 1;
10           Figure 4 is a schematic view of an exemplary
   attendance page of the system of figure 1;
             Figure 5 is a schematic view of the swipe input
   mechanism of the system of figure 1;
             Figure 6 is a schematic view of the touch input
15 mechanism of the system of figure 1;
             Figure 7 is a schematic view of the mobile input
   mechanism of the system of figure 1;
             Figure 8 is a schematic view of an exemplary home
   page of a Care Provider website of the system of figure 1;
20           Figure 9 is a schematic view of an exemplary child
   registration form of the system of figure 1; and
             Figure 10 is a schematic view of an exemplary
   children page of the system of figure 1;
             Figure 11 is a schematic view of an exemplary
25 allocation page of the system of figure 1; and
             Figure 12 is a schematic view of an exemplary
   attendance and payment view page of the system of figure 1.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
30 A system for collecting care data in the form of childcare
   data according to an embodiment of the present invention is
   shown schematically at 100 in figure 1, together with an input
   mechanism 102, user terminals 104, and interfaces with related
   parties in the form of education authorities 106 and local
35 government/non-profit organizations 108.   System 100 also
   assists Care Providers, in this embodiment in the form of
   Childcare Providers  (CCPs), to supply the relevant authorities
   with accurate information regarding childcare supply and
   usage.  It will be appreciated that system 100 is equally
40 suitable, in some instances will straightforward modification,
   for use in other care provision environments, including

   environments that include at least a component of care
   provision, such as certain medical facilities, psychiatric
   facilities, retirement homes, aged care facilities and
   schools.
 5
   System 100 has six input mechanisms 102, namely:
     - a manual input mechanism;
     - a swipe  (either contact or contactless) input mechanism;
     - an touch input mechanism;
10   - a mobile device input mechanism;
     - a biometric input mechanism; and
     - an electronic signature input mechanism.
   All six mechanisms use a core Web Application of the system,
15 the difference being the process in which attendance
   information is reported on.
   In this embodiment, the manual, mobile, biometric and
   electronic signature input mechanisms implement a common
20 methodology for indicating absent clients    (in this embodiment
   in the form of children),   and the swipe and touch mechanisms
   implement a common methodology for indicating children that
   have attended.   All input mechanisms have a comparable outcome
    (viz. a list or data indicative of absent children, and a list
25 or data indicative of children who attended, on a particular
   day),  the methodology of indicating which children are absent
   from a list of expected attendances is especially
   advantageous.
30 Following is a detailed description of how each of the six
   individual input mechanisms work.
   a) Manual Input Mechanism
35 The manual input mechanism (shown schematically in figure 3)
   is the most basic of the input mechanisms.     If a child is
   absent, the Childcare Provider (CCP) logs into a web
   application of the system via a web browser (from, for
   example, a desktop computer or mobile device),    and identifies
40 the absent child's name from an attendance page generated by
   the web application.    An exemplary attendance page is shown

   schematically at 120 in figure 4.    The attendance page 120 is
   automatically populated by the web application with the names
   122 of the children who are enrolled at the childcare facility
   for on the current day.   By default, the web application
 5 indicates all children as being in attendance, and marks them
   with a tick; that is, the attendance page constitutes a list
   of expected attendances.   Selecting a child's name (such as by
   clicking on it with a mouse) is used to indicate that the
   child is in fact absent, and prompts the web application to
10 mark the child's name with a cross and to shade the background
   of that child in red (see figure 4 at, for example, 124).     The
   web application's interface expands to provide a free entry
   field in which the CCP can enter a reason for the absence.
15 This is repeated for each absent child.    Once this task has
   been completed, the CCP clicks a   'submit' button to securely
   send this information to system 100 via the Internet.     System
   100 captures this information to database 112, and passes it
   to the relevant outside party, in this embodiment in the form
20 of the education authorities   (typically an Education
   Department or the like) 106 through the SOAP API    (not shown)
   of system 100.
   For each child marked and hence recorded as being in
25 attendance, system 100 retrieves the enrolment schedule for
   the respective child and automatically fills in the hours
   attended.   This information is used to calculate fees and
   charges for the child's attendance.
30 The combination of a list of expected attendances on a day of
   care  (constructed using each child's enrolment schedule) and
   the methodology of indicating absence rather than attendance
   makes this especially advantageous.
35 b) Swipe Input Mechanism
   The swipe input mechanism (shown schematically in figure 5)
   uses swipe cards in the form of RFID contactless key tags and
   a reader to automate the process of creating attendance
40 information.   The CCP issues each child's agent (i.e. parent
   or other guardian) with a swipe card for each child.     The card

   contains a unique number either encoded or stored on a chip,
   which is correlated within the system to a single child
   enrolled for childcare.   These numbers are stored against the
   child's name within the system.
 5
   Each parent or other guardian swipes his or her card
   pertaining to a particular child at one of the swipe terminals
   located at the relevant childcare facility each time the
   parent signs that child in or out of care.
10
   The unique card number is transmitted to the system along with
   the time and date the card was swiped (wither in or out).
   This information is added to the child's record in real time
   to signify that the child has attended or departed care.   The
15 Care Providers can view this attendance information live.    The
   total time the child has spent in care is calculated and used
   to automatically calculate fees charged for the child's
   attendance.   The absence of swipe information for a child who
   is enrolled on a day of care indicates the child was absent
20 from care.
   Periodically, in this embodiment at the end of a day of care,
   system 100 sends the attendance information for that day to
   education authorities 106 securely through the SOAP API of
25 system 100.
   As mentioned above, the swipe cards of system 100 are
   contactless RFID tags, but any suitable swipe card -  including
   magnetic stripe swipe cards or RFID equipped cards, key fobs
30 and wrist bands, and whether employing contact or contactless
   reading - may be employed.   Similarly, the card readers may be
   wired and/or wireless.
   The CCP staff are issued with spare cards to supply to parents
35 in the case the parents lose or forget their cards.   CCPs can
   also login to the web interface of system 100 if a parent   (or
   other guardian) forgets to swipe his or her child in, and
   manually record the attendance information.
40 The combination of a list of expected attendances on a day of
   care  (constructed using each child's enrolment schedule) and

   the data collected from swipe card use to indicate attendance
   makes this mechanism especially advantageous.
   c) Touch Input Mechanism
 5
   The touch input mechanism (shown schematically in figure 6)
   uses touch screen technology to automate the process of
   creating attendance information.  A child's enrolment details
   are synchronised with touch screens  (such as in a childcare
10 centre), allowing parents or other guardians to sign children
   in and out of care via the touch screen interface.
   Each parent or other guardian is provided with a unique PIN,
   of - in this embodiment - four digits.   This PIN is used to
15 authenticate the parent or other guardian, rather than a
   specific child, though the system associates the PIN of a
   particular parent or guardian with all the children of that
   parent or guardian.
20 The parent or guardian confirms the attendance of a child by
   entering the parent or guardian's PIN on the touch screen.   If
   there is more than one child at the provider registered with
   the parent or guardian indicated by a particular PIN, system
   100 prompts the parent or guardian to identify which one or
25 more children they wish to enter information for.   If the
   parent or guardian has not yet signed in a particular child
   for the day, system 100 records each child's attendance as
   commencing at the time the parent or guardian enters the
   child's details.  If this is the second time the parent or
30 guardian has logged into the touch screen and selected a
   particular child, the system records that child's attendance
   as ceasing at the time the parent or guardian enters or
   selects the child's details.  The parent or guardian is
   prompted to confirm this commencement or cessation when
35 signing in or out a second or subsequent child.
   System 100 is operable by staff at the Care Provider to
   receive one or more messages to appear in the Login section of
   the user interface, and to display such messages accordingly.
40
   After a parent or guardian has entered information about a

   child or children, the parent or guardian is prompted to
   Logout by the system.   Logout finishes the process of signing
   their child into or out of care.
 5 As with the swipe input mechanism, the exact time and date is
   recorded so that accurate records on attendance are kept.
   Any type of touch screen, including but not limited to wired
   touch screens interfaced directly into a LAN at the premises
10 of the Care Provider (and hence to the internet),   and wireless
   touch screens can be used with this mechanism.
   The combination of a web interface, the use of electronic
   touch screen terminals, and parental login to indicate
15 attendance makes this mechanism especially advantageous.
   d) Mobile Input Mechanism
   The mobile input mechanism shown schematically in figure 7)
20 uses hand held devices to automate the process of creating
   attendance information.   The mobile input mechanism is
   especially suitable when a single carer looks after several
   clients and must report information to a care provider.
25 Each Carer using mobile input mechanism 102 is issued with a
   hand held device, such as a mobile telephone, in order to
   report child attendance details to the child's CCP.    Each
   child in care is allocated a unique code   (such as "Nevada
   Wright = COPP23").  This code is automatically generated, but
30 can be edited in the respective child's record on the
   children's page within the web application.    A list of codes
   is used to indicate the various types of or reasons for
   absence. For example: illness = 01, holiday = 02, unknown   =
   03.
35
   If a child does not attend care, the Carer submits   (via SMS,
   web browser or email) the child's code, the absence code and
   the reason for the child's absence   (if applicable) to system
   100.  System 100 parses each message to record attendance and
40 absence information for each child.

   A second submission allows carers to update attendance times
   at the end of a day of care.   For example if Nevada Wright was
   scheduled to attend from 08.30 to 17.30 but only attended from
   10.00 to 15.30, the carer would message the web application
 5 with the actual attendance time, in the form of a message such
   as "COPP23, 10.00, 15.30"
   In the event that all children attend according to their
   attendance schedule, no additional submission is required to
10 be sent.  The web application automatically records their
   attendance using their attendance schedule.   System 100 also
   allows for multiple children's details to be sent in the same
   Absence or Attendance message.
15 The carer is sent a confirmation message for each message they
   successfully submit to the web application.
   The combination of system 100 and the mobile input mechanism
   102 is useful in Local Government 108 for Family Day Care, or
20 for remote Care Providers and Related Parties and in State and
   National Governments for compliance criteria in all forms of
   Care and Responsibility sectors.   System 100 allows a Local
   Government 108 to log in and view attendance and waitlist
   information in real time.  All levels of Government (including
25 Local Government 108), Care Providers and Related Parties can
   also export this information to their own servers for their
   own record keeping purposes.
   Any mobile device, including but not limited to mobile phones
30 and PDAs, can be used to facilitate this mechanism.
   As a contingency measure, Carer Providers and Related Parties
   are also provided with a login allowing them to manually
   update children's information in the invention via a web
35 browser.  This is for use should the Care Provider or Related
   Party experience mobile phone network failure or has not been
   issued with a hand-held device.
   e) Biometric Input Mechanism
40
   The biometric input mechanism employs the Biometric

   Verification Module described below.
   f) Electronic signature input mechanism.
 5 The electronic signature input mechanism operates essentially
   as does the biometric input mechanism, but by identifying a
   parent or guardian   (and, if of sufficient ability, a child) by
   signature.   The signature is made on a scanner comparable to
   that of the Biometric Verification Module, similarly verified,
10 and used to sign in and out each day.
   The combination of a list of expected attendances on a day of
   care  (constructed using each child's enrolment schedule),  the
   methodology of indicating absence rather than attendance, the
15 use of a mobile device, and the mobile text format makes this
   approach especially advantageous.
   System Modules
20 System 100 includes the following modules.
   1.0 Web-Based Module. This embodiment of the invention
   provides a web based application that allows Care Providers
   (such as CCPs) and Related Parties   (such as Local Governments
25 108) to access system 100 from any device that has an Internet
   connection and web browser.    No software need to be installed,
   and regular backups are performed on behalf of each CCP.    It
   is written in the Ruby   (trade mark) programming language using
   the Rails web application framework.
30
   By using internet (and ideally Web 2.0) technology, in this
   embodiment for childcare, the regulation of record keeping is
   intelligently automated.    User intervention is minimized, so
   regulation can be fulfilled to it maximum potential.
35
   1.1 Website Module. Each Care Provider is provided with its
   own website 110 as a portal for communication that provides:
   i) Information about the Childcare Provider with the ability
   to change information and graphics via the proprietary Content
40 Management System.
   ii) A secure login for staff (of the Care Provider) to share,

   record and view information   (such as enrolments, fees,
   Government Benefits (e.g. childcare benefits or CCB),
   absences, medical information, PIN codes, communication
   portal, portfolios, etc) on the children.
 5 iii) Access to an online Waitlist (See 1.2)
   An exemplary home page of a website 110 is shown schematically
   at 130 in figure 8.
10 1.2 Online Waitlist Module. This module of system 100 provides
   each Childcare Provider with its own waitlist, which is made
   accessible via and displayable on that respective Childcare
   Provider's website 110.   Parents or guardians seeking
   Childcare for their children can sign up via website 110 to
15 book a place for their child.    Thus, the Waitlist Module is
   configured to generate this waitlist of children seeking
   childcare from the information entered into registrations
   forms (as described below).
20 The Waitlist Module is controllable by the Care Providers to
   sort the respective waitlist in order of priority - according
   to specific Government criteria (such as single parent or
   client at risk or indigenous preferences).    System 100 is
   configured to intelligently analyse the registration forms and
25 identify if there are any specific Government or Related Party
   criteria that have been met.
   The Waitlist Module of system 100 is operable by the Care
   Providers or Local government/Non-profits 108 to send and
30 receive invitations from other Care Providers' systems to
   combine waitlists so there is one centralised waitlist instead
   of many distributed waitlists.
   Using a mapping system with information on the location of
35 every Centre  (of a Care Provider organisation),  Care Provider
   and Related Party using system 100, Care Providers can preview
   other local Care Provider centres with which they may merge
   waitlists.   The waitlist page includes a map of the local area
   (whether municipality, council, city, state, territory or
40 country) and is controllable to delineate the region for
   sharing waitlists.   Care Providers can click on a state or

   province, for example, to reveal a drilled down map displaying
   the regions within it.  From here the Care Providers can click
   on a region to reveal all the centres and Care Providers
   (including of type) with similar waitlists.   The number and
 5 placement of Related Parties' client registrations may also be
   indicated.  It will also indicate where on the waitlist a
   respective client is, including the basis of any priorities.
   Waitlist Module of system 100 is controllable to send
10 invitations sent to the centres or Care Providers thus
   identified with the hope of merging waitlists.   System 100
   encompasses an internal messaging system to track all sent and
   received waitlists invitations.
15 Upon signing up to a waitlist, parents or guardians are issued
   a login so they can login time to change their waitlist
   details and/or Care Provider preference list.
   The combination of an online waitlist incorporated into system
   100 with the unique mapping and message tracking system makes
20 this module especially advantageous.
   1.3 Online Payment Module.  Parents and guardians can log in
   via a Care Provider's website 110 and can view detailed fee
   and charge information relating to their child.   They can pay
25 any fees instantly via credit card or nominate a bank account
   in order for the Care Provider to directly debit fees, or
   indicate another method of payment.  The online payment module
   of system 100 automatically recognises if a family is overdue
   with their payments and is adapted to email them a reminder,
30 via which the parent or other guardian is provided with a "1
   click to pay" link.  All online transactions can be exported
   to the Care Provider's and relative Related Parties   (such as
   Local government/Non-profit 108) preferred accounting package.
35 1.4 Parent Signup Module.  Every child in care has to be
   enrolled within system 100 before attendance information can
   be recorded for them.  Instead of the Care Provider entering
   in the details of every child, the parent or other guardian
   does this by registering and filling out an online form.    An
40 exemplary form is shown schematically at 140 in figure 9.

   It is in the interest of the parent or other guardian to fill
   in the form correctly, as failure to do could result in
   default elimination from (or non-conversion to) receipt of
   grants, subsidies and compliance related assistance from all
 5 tiers of Government, Care Providers or Related Parties, and
   hence potentially no CCB payments.   The option for a Care
   Provider to manually enrol a child in system 100 is also
   available as a contingency in the case where a parent or other
   guardian has not or cannot do so (such as owing to not having
10 access to a computer).
   If any changes to the registration/waitlist form are made, the
   relevant party or parties  (parent, guardian or Care Provider)
   are alerted and prompted to confirm the change;  in response to
15 this confirmation, system 100 updates database 112 on the
   basis of those changes.
   Arranging system 100 to allow parents and guardians' to sign
   up and enter their own and their children's details and to
20 verify changes to those details (rather than having the Care
   Provider manually enter such information in a database) is
   especially advantageous.
   1.5 Registration Verification Module.   All parent or guardian
25 registration forms  (or at least the data contained therein)
   are sent to system 100 where they can be viewed until they are
   either approved or denied by the Care Provider.   Registrations
   only become active once they have been approved by the Care
   Provider.  The combination of a parent registration and Care
30 Provider approval or denial of registration makes this module
   especially advantageous.
   1.6 Attendance Reminder Module.   Care Providers can opt-in to
   be automatically emailed once a day the list of children who
35 are scheduled to be in attendance for that day.   This email
   constitutes a friendly reminder that the Care Provider should
   update its attendance records for that day.   The Attendance
   Reminder Module can be used to configure the email reminders
   to be sent at any time during the day or they can be turned
40 off.

   1.7 One-Click Absence Indicator Module.     One click of the
   mouse is all that is required to indicate a child is absent on
   any given, specific day or for any specific period.     By
   default all children who should and are expected to in
 5 attendance, based on normal attendance records, are displayed
   with a green background to indicate that they are expected to
   be in attendance.   One click on each child that is or will be
   absent turns the background or surrounding field red     (as
   described above),  indicating that the respective child is or
10 will not be present.   This procedure coupled with the method
   of only indicating absent children rather than all children
   who are attending reduces the time required to submit
   attendance data, and makes this module especially
   advantageous.
15
   1.8 Colour coding status identifier module.     System 100 uses a
   colour coding system to easily identify the status of
   children.
20 As explained above, the Attendance page    (see figure 4) uses
   green to signify that a child is attending care for that day
   whilst red is used to signify a child is absent from care.
   The Client page  (in this embodiment in the form of a Children
   page, an example of which is shown schematically at 150 in
25 figure 10) uses purple   (shown with shading in figure 10) to
   signify that a child's enrolment has been formalised.      Orange
   (shown unshaded in figure 10),   optionally with an orange
   exclamation mark, is used to identify that a child's enrolment
   remains informal, meaning that it lacks some information.
30 Colour coding allow ready examination of the status of
   children in care at any given time.
   This module makes it faster and more effective by the eye of
   the user being able to scan rather than read the information
35 on the page.
   This functionality employs variables stored in system 100.
   For Care Provider, variables indicative of Related Party,
   National compliance or Sector compliance criteria are uniquely
40 coded for all clients  (in this example, children).

   1.9 Drag and Drop Room/Group Allocation Module.    Once a child
   registration form from a parent or other guardian is accepted
   by the Care Provider, the child is added to the unassigned
   list of children under an   'Allocation' page of website 110 of
 5 system 100, visible to respective Care Providers.    Figure 11
   is a schematic view of an exemplary Allocation page 160 of
   system 100.  To allocate a child to a room, unit, section or
   group, the Care Provider drags and drops the respective child
   from a list 162 of unassigned children into one of the
10 predefined (but editable) rooms, units, sections or groups    (in
   this example, rooms 164).    A Care Provider can define as many
   rooms, units, sections or groups as required, and perform as
   many such allocations as required.    The combination of using a
   drag and drop technology with assigning children to rooms is
15 especially advantageous.
   Each allocation prompts system 100 to update the respective
   child's variable.   As a result, the information held by the
   Care Provider (and possibly forwarded to the Related Parties)
20 is rich in content and analytical data.
   2.0 Accounting Interfacing Module.    System 100 can interface
   directly with the accounting packages of the Care Provider or
   Local government/Non-profit 108, provided    those packages have
25 an API.  All fee transactions can be imported directly into
   the accounting package for immediate reporting.
   System 100 has an accounting and cashbooks module that is
   specific to the Care Provider's sector and integrative in
30 total with the rich content and data variables of the system
   100.  This means that Care Providers can integrate and share
   data more accurately with Government, Parents/Guardians and
   Related Parties.
35 2.1 No Charge code limit Module.    System 100 is configured to
   receive input from the Care Provider indicative of an
   practically unlimited number of customized charge codes, so
   that Care Providers   (and their centres), even with complicated
   fee structures, can continue to charge as they wish.
40
   2.2 Parent Access Module.    Parent Access Module of system 100

   allows parents or other guardians to log in and access
   invoices, fee summaries, CCB statements, Government compliance
   and non-compliance criteria, subsidies, direct debit/credit
   card information, attendance and medical information,
 5 bookings, quality assurance absence totals and further
   information from Related Parties.  Parents and other guardians
   can also keep their details up to date, including by changing
   such details online, and share this information - if desired
   with Care Providers and Related Parties.
10
   Government services are thus made more accessible by allowing
   parents and other guardians to link directly to Government
   service databases or servers from the Parent Access Module.
15 The combination of allowing parents and guardians to directly
   access this information online and to keep their information
   up to date by giving them write access to change payment,
   medical information and authoritative rights and information
   sharing makes this module especially valuable.
20
   2.3 Adaptable Scenario Module.
   System 100 is adapted to suit any sized organization, from the
   smallest care centre up to the largest Care Providers and
   Related Parties.  The modules and input mechanisms 102 can be
25 applied to any Care Provider's circumstances.
   2.4 Colour layered attendance and payment view module.   System
   100 uses a unique colour layered attendance and payment view
   to make identifying Attendance times and fees as easily as
30 possible.
   Figure 12 is a schematic view of an exemplary attendance and
   payment view page 170 of system 100, showing the details
   pertaining to a selected child (in this example, "Alice
35 Wright").  Each child's normal attendance schedule is layered
   first in yellow (shown unshaded at, for example, 172).   If a
   child attends care then the chargeable time he or she attend
   is layered on top in green (shown shaded at, for example, 174)
   with the fee attached (and shown within the green field).   If
40 a child fails to attend, a red layer (shown chequered at, for
   example, 176) is superimposed on the yellow attendance time to

   signify he or she was not in care and a zero fee is attached.
   2.5 Biometric Verification Module.   System 100 also offers
   biometric verification to Care Providers in the form of
 5 fingerprint or iris scanning.   This mechanism works in a
   similar way to the swipe input mechanism except that the
   clients - here, children - sign themselves in and out (with
   the assistance of their parent or guardian if necessary).
   Parents and guardians have each of their children present a
10 finger (or eye) for scanning by one of a number of readers.
   This identifies the child to system 100, which then has a
   record indicating that the child is attending care and at what
   time the child signed in.   The child again present a finger
   (or eye) for scanning by a reader when - and to effect
15 signing out, prompting system 100 to automatically calculate
   the time for which the child attended care.
   2.6 Online training videos to application switch Module.
   Online training videos are provided to Care Providers via
20 website 110 of system 100.   At anytime in a training video the
   Care Provider user can click a  'Try now' button embedded in
   the video to be taken to the precise screen of system 100 so
   the user can try out in real time what has just be viewed in
   the training video.
25
   Transferring the user from the online user module straight
   into a working model provides greater application of the
   training to the user's current situation.
30 2.7 Auto populating data Module.   A Care Provider that wishes
   to transfer to system 100 can do so easily.   The Education
   authorities 106 provide a copy of the Care Provider's data
   file, which system 100 receives, reads and uses to populate
   its database 112.   All children's records, transaction history
35 and attendance data are automatically populated.   No manual
   re-entering of data by the Care Provider should be necessary.
   2.8 Multi-Language Support Module.   System 100 supports a
   variety of languages.   A Care Provider can select a language
40 from a drop down box displayable by system 100, which
   immediately and automatically translates the user interface of

   system 100 into the selected language.
   This module is also available to every parent or guardian that
   has registered to use system 100.   During the registration
 5 process system 100 prompts parents and guardians for a
   preferred language.  System 100 then retrieves the relevant
   record relating to that preference and accordingly displays
   the user interface in the preferred language each time the
   respective parent or guardian logs in.
10
   This feature allows system 100 to interpret data received from
   the parent or guardian appropriately.   Multi-Language Support
   Module of system 100 translates to and from the nominated,
   preferred language, so that the parent or guardian can enter
15 personal information in that preferred language.   This module
   allows for privacy of information without operators being the
   interface for private information.
   The Module thus has the ability to translate in real time
20 input from Care Providers and Related Parties, and translate
   back to other Care Providers or Related Parties.   Many
   variables apply across the Care sector, and this Module
   includes algorithms to effect accurate translation.
25 3.0 Instant Assistance Module.   An icon is provided on the
   user interface of system 100 that Care Providers can click to
   receive immediate assistance from a help desk.   When a Care
   Provider clicks on the icon  (displayed on website 110), system
   100 transmits the telephone number of the respective Care
30 Provider to the help desk telephone system, which is
   configured to immediately dial that Care Provider.
   3.1 CCP Data Download Module.   System 100 is adapted to allow
   Care Providers to store their data onsite as well as on a
35 second database 114 of system 100.   This allows a service or
   carer to download to their own computer all their transaction
   history, including:
   - Parent or guardian and Child Information
   - Enrolment History
40 - Payment History
   - Attendance History

   - Account Statements for Parents for Parent, Carer and Service
   - CCB or other benefit claim data
   - Account History
 5 Data is provided in a .csv (Comma Delimited File) format
   and/or printer friendly PDF format so that those who wish to
   can:
   - Print detailed history reports
   - Create their own customised reports
10 - Export data into any other reporting system
   - Provide offline storage of information
   3.2 Advanced Charge Module.    System 100 includes a Advanced
   Charge Module, which allows Care Providers to charge parents
15 and guardians for specified periods in advance.    This module
   combines the variables for subsidies, grants, fee exclusions
   and Government compliance criteria in any territory and the
   client's regular attendance schedule and the associated fees
   to calculate advance charges.    In addition, this module
20 recognizes if there are any   'client free' or 'no charge' days
   in the specified future time period; this allows an accurate
   figure to be calculated.   This module is accessed from the
   Administration page (by clicking "Administration" button 126)
   of system 100.
25
   Advantageously, advanced charges can thus be calculated using
   current and accurate information, rather than being based on
   previous information or averages.
30 3.3 Booking System Module.   System 100 includes a Booking
   System Module that allows parents and guardians to book a care
   place for their children online.    Care Providers can input the
   number of available places for each day.    Parents and
   guardians can view the number of available places, once logged
35 in, and immediately book and pay for a vacancy for their
   child.
   System 100 uses the variables stored in association that child
   to search for the most appropriate of the vacancies.    The Care
40 Provider and parent or guardian may control system 100 to    'try
   again', that is, to search for the most appropriate vacancy

   again but now to exclude the previous selection(s)    (and
   optionally those similar to the previous selection(s)).     Care
   Providers can also control this module to manually override
   the selection.   System 100 is provided with algorithms to
 5 determine such placements.
   3.4 Vital Information Module.    Vital Information Module
   handles vital information, that is, information that all Care
   Providers should be aware of, including information concerning
10 allergies, medical conditions, religious affiliations and
   requirements, illnesses and important routines.    This module
   of system 100 is configured to forward alerts pertaining to
   such vital information to the Care Provider (such as when a
   forthcoming religious holiday or the contents of a proposed
15 meal matches entries in the vital information pertaining to
   one or more children).    Vital Information is extracted from
   each registration form during the registration process, and
   checked by this module whenever relevant alerts might be
   required, making this module especially advantageous.
20
   3.5 Cashbook Module.    The functionality of this module is
   available to each Care Provider and parent or guardian.     The
   Cashbook Module allows users to keep track of finances and
   integrities through website 110.    All income and expenses are
25 recorded and detailed reports can then be produced from this
   information.   Cashbook Module saves regular input and
   subsequently prompts the user like inputs.    Budgeting, Tax and
   Government reporting are all handled by the Cashbook Module.
30 Additional Modules
   1.0 Additional Logins.    Care Providers are able to assign
   additional logins   (such as to their staff members) through the
   Administration page (by clicking "Administration" button 126).
35
   1.1 Access Audits.    Access Audits can be run on any user who
   has accessed the system.    All logins are date and time
   recorded and a login trail is kept for security reasons.
   Audits can be conducted for custom date ranges or for
40 individual users.

   1.2 Workflows.   Users are provided with workflows to make the
   job of completing tasks that much easier.    Workflows assist
   the user by listing the various steps involved for a task one
   by one.   Users can then feel confident that they are doing the
 5 right thing.
   This module thinks on behalf of the user, speaking in a
   language that suits the user.    It identifies the user from
   family, operator, administrator and occupation, then specific
10 language is integrated to the workflow to make the user's
   understanding of the operations easier.
   1.3 Backups.   System 100 provides complete backups every hour.
   A Care Provider can request a copy of their information at any
15 time through the user interface 104 of its respective website
   110 of system 100.
   1.4 Reports.   System 100 is operable to provide various
   reports for Care Providers or Local government/Non-profits
20 108, including Income, Outstanding Payments, Government
   Payments, Attendance, Utilisation and Sign in/out sheets.
   1.5 Additional Information.    System 100 allows for additional
   information such as medical details, emergency contacts, and
25 immunisation records to be kept for each child.    This
   information is stored in the respective child's record (in
   database 112),  which is based principally in the information
   received in the child's registration form, and is only visible
   if the relevant button   (such as a '+' sign) or tab (such as a
30  'Registration Form' tab) is clicked.   This is so the user is
   not presented with too much information.
   Modifications within the scope of the invention may be readily
   effected by those skilled in the art.    It is to be understood,
35 therefore, that this invention is not limited to the
   particular embodiments described by way of example
   hereinabove.
   In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of
40 the invention, except where the context requires otherwise
   owing to express language or necessary implication, the word

   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
   is used in an inclusive sense, that is, to specify the
   presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
   presence or addition of further features in various
 5 embodiments of the invention.
   Further, any reference herein to prior art is not intended to
   imply that such prior art forms or formed a part of the common
   general knowledge in any country.
10

   CLAIMS:
   1.  A system for collecting care data pertaining to clients of
   one or more care providers, wherein said system is in part
 5 accessible and operable by said clients or on behalf of said
   clients by respective agents of said clients.
   2.  A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said care is
   childcare and said clients are children.
10
   3.  A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said agents are
   parents or guardians.
   4.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a module for
15 generating an interface accessible by said care providers over
   the internet.
   5.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a module for
   generating an interface accessible by said clients or said
20 agents over the internet.
   6.  A system as claimed in claim 1, including or adapted to
   receive data pertaining to said clients from one or more input
   mechanisms selected from the group comprising:
25           a manual input mechanism;
             a swipe input mechanism;
             a touch input mechanism;
             a mobile device input mechanism;
             a biometric input mechanism; and
30           an electronic signature input mechanism.
   7.  A system as claimed in claim 6, wherein said one or more
   input mechanisms are operable by said clients or by said
   agents.
35
   8.  A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said system is
   adapted to provide an interface displayable over the internet,
   and operable by said clients or said agents to input
   attendance information pertaining to said respective clients
40 to said system.

   9.  A system as claimed in claim 1, configured to maintain
   first data indicative of one or more of said clients expected
   to attend said care for a specific period, and to receive
   second data indicative of one or more of said clients absent
 5 or expected to be absent for said specific period, wherein
   attendance for said specific period can be determined from a
   comparison of the first and second data.
   10.  A system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said specific
10 period comprises a particular day.
   11.  A system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said specific
   period is input or defined by a first day and a last day of
   said specific period.
15
   12.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising an interface
   displayable over the internet, and operable by said clients or
   said agents to input absence information pertaining to said
   respective clients.
20
   13.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a swipe input
   mechanism, wherein said swipe input mechanism includes a
   plurality of RFID tags and one or more tag readers adapted to
   read said tags.
25
   14.  A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said tags are
   contactless.
   15.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a mobile
30 device input mechanism, wherein said mobile device input
   mechanism is adapted to receive attendance or absence data
   from mobile communications devices.
   16.  A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said mobile
35 device input mechanism is adapted to receive said attendance
   or absence data in short messaging service messages.
   17.  A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said mobile
   communications devices are mobile telephones.
40
   18.  A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said system

   includes a signup module that is adapted to construct or
   assemble data indicative of one or more of said clients
   expected to attend said care for a specific period from
   respective enrolment registrations or schedules of said
 5 clients.
   19.  A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said system
   includes a signup module that is remotely operable by said
   clients or said agents remotely over the internet to receive
10 details of said clients and of any desired guardians of said
   clients for storage in said system.
   20.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a waitlist
   module operable by said clients or said agents via the
15 internet and operable to receive waitlist applications
   pertaining to said clients indicative of care desired for said
   respective clients.
   21.  A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein said waitlist
20 module is operable by or one behalf of one or more of said
   clients to amend or cancel said respective waitlist
   application.
   22.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a touch input
25 mechanism, wherein said touch input mechanism comprises one or
   more touch screens and is operable to receive attendance or
   absence information by operation of said touch screens.
   23.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising an attendance
30 reminder module for constructing and transmitting electronic
   reminders to one or more care providers, said reminders
   identifying those of said clients due to attend at a time
   specified in said respective reminder.
35 24.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising an absence
   indicator module operable by a user to tag one or more clients
   as absent or expected to be absent on a specified day or for a
   specified period.
40 25.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a colour
   coding status identifier module configured to control

   displaying respective statuses of said clients to be colour
   coded.
   26.  A system as claimed in claim 25, wherein each respective
 5 name of said client is colour coded or displayed against a
   colour coded field.
   27.  A system as claimed in claim 25, wherein said colour
   coding status identifier module is configured to colour code
10 clients in attendance differently from absent clients.
   28.  A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising an allocation
   module operable by drag and drop to allocate respective
   clients to respective groups.
15
   29.  A system as claimed in claim 28, wherein said groups
   correspond to respective rooms.
   30.  A system as claimed in claim 28, wherein said allocation
20 module is adapted to colour code said groups or said clients
   according to allocated group.
   31.  A method for collecting care data pertaining to clients
   of one or more care providers, comprising receiving data
25 pertaining to said clients from said clients or from
   respective agents of said clients.
   32.  A method as claimed in claim 31, wherein said care is
   childcare and said clients are children.
30
   33.  A method as claimed in claim 31, wherein said agents are
   parents or guardians.
   34.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising generating an
35 interface displayable to said care providers over the
   internet.
   35.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising generating an
   interface displayable to said clients or said agents over the
40 internet.

   36.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising receiving
   said data pertaining to said clients from one or more input
   mechanisms selected from the group comprising:
             a manual input mechanism;
 5           a swipe input mechanism;
             a touch input mechanism;
             a mobile device input mechanism;
             a biometric input mechanism; and
             an electronic signature input mechanism.
10
   37.  A method as claimed in claim 36, wherein said one or more
   input mechanisms are operable by said clients or by said
   agents.
15 38.  A method as claimed in claim 31, including displaying an
   interface over the internet, said interface being operable by
   said clients or said agents to submit attendance information
   pertaining to said respective clients.
20 39.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising maintaining
   first data indicative of one or more of said clients expected
   to attend said care for a specific period, and receiving
   second data indicative of one or more of said clients absent
   or expected to be absent for said specific period, wherein
25 attendance for said specific period can be determined from a
   comparison of the first and second data.
   40.  A method as claimed in claim 39, wherein said specific
   period comprises a particular day.
30
   41.  A method as claimed in claim 39, wherein said specific
   period is input or defined by a first day and a last day of
   said specific period.
35 42.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising displaying an
   interface over the internet for operation by said clients or
   said agents to input absence information pertaining to said
   respective clients.
40 43.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising receiving
   said data from swipe input mechanism, said swipe input

   mechanism including a plurality of RFID tags and one or more
   tag readers adapted to read said tags.
   44.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising receiving
 5 said data from a mobile device input mechanism, said mobile
   device input mechanism being adapted to receive attendance or
   absence data from mobile communications devices.
   45.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising constructing
10 or assembling data indicative of one or more of said clients
   expected to attend said care for a specific period from
   respective enrolment registrations or schedules of said
   clients.
15 46.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising receiving
   waitlist applications pertaining to one or more of said
   clients indicative of care desired for said respective clients
   from said clients or said agents via the internet.
20 47.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising tagging one
   or more of said clients as absent or expected to be absent on
   a specified day or for a specified period.
   48.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising displaying
25 respective statuses of said clients as colour coded.
   49.  A method as claimed in claim 31, comprising receiving
   group allocation data pertaining to said clients by a drag and
   drop mechanism.

                                                     <U+2759>   |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                          <U+271D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+270E>
            <U+271C><U+2722><U+2740><U+2723><U+2727><U+273F><U+273E><U+2724><U+2723><U+273D>
                          <U+260E><U+2721><U+2716><U+272F><U+2715><U+2702><U+272D><U+2701><U+272F><U+2737>        <U+274D><U+274A><U+2749>
       <U+273C><U+271C><U+2724><U+2605><U+272C><U+2724><U+2727><U+2605><U+273B><U+2723><U+273A>       <U+2736><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734> <U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+272F><U+2733>                                                    <U+274A><U+2749>        <U+2729>
                 <U+2739><U+271B><U+271A><U+2723><U+2738>                                                                            <U+2724>
                                                                     <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2715><U+2720><U+271F><U+2711> <U+2732><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2735><U+2732><U+2713>
                 <U+274A><U+274A><U+2749>                         <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2745><U+272F><U+272F><U+270F><U+271F><U+261B><U+2720><U+2711>
                                                                            <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+271E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2713>
                                       <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+261E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2716><U+2701>   <U+2730><U+2720><U+260E><U+2721><U+2744>
                                                                         <U+261E><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2743> <U+2702><U+272F><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2731><U+2720><U+2715><U+270E>
                                       <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2721><U+2745><U+272F><U+272F><U+2748>                           <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706>
                                                                         <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+261E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2716><U+2701> <U+2730><U+2720><U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2721><U+2732><U+2732><U+2713>
                                              <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+261E> <U+2715><U+271D><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2732><U+2721>
                                          <U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2720><U+260E><U+261B> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2721><U+2732><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2704><U+272F><U+2730><U+272F><U+2711>                <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+261B><U+2702><U+2704><U+2745><U+271E><U+2720><U+2748>
                                 <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2715><U+271D><U+2744> <U+271E><U+2721><U+2715><U+260E><U+271D><U+261E><U+272F><U+2721><U+2748>                                    <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+261B><U+2747><U+272F><U+2730><U+2716><U+2745><U+2715><U+272F><U+2742>
                                              <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2715><U+272F><U+260E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2732><U+2701>             <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2732><U+2704><U+2713> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713>
<U+25B2>
                                           <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2745><U+271E><U+2721><U+2730><U+2711><U+272D><U+271D><U+2701><U+2712>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>           <U+261B><U+2730><U+2720><U+2701><U+2721><U+261E><U+2715><U+271D><U+272E>                                                  <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2721><U+2731><U+272F><U+2733> <U+2730><U+2720><U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2721><U+2732><U+2732><U+2713>
<U+274F>                                <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2715><U+271D><U+2732><U+2701><U+2721><U+261E><U+271D><U+2743> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2715> <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2746>
                                                                   <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2732><U+2720><U+272F><U+2730><U+2701><U+2747><U+272F><U+270E> <U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2711><U+2711>
                                                        <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706>
      <U+25CF><U+274A><U+2749>                              <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2715><U+271D><U+2744> <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+2715><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2731><U+271D><U+2743>     <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2720><U+260E><U+261B><U+2701>
                                       <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2731><U+271D><U+2743> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+2714>
                                                                                       <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706>
                                       <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+270D><U+2720><U+2714> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+2730><U+2701><U+2712>          <U+260E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704><U+270C> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2720><U+2704><U+2731><U+2701><U+2720><U+2733><U+272D><U+2721><U+260E><U+2730><U+2704><U+2706>
                                        <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2730><U+260E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2742> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+2730><U+2701><U+2712>     <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+2732> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+2730><U+2704><U+2702><U+272F><U+2702> <U+272F><U+260E><U+2704><U+2713>
                                <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+2716><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+2704><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713>         <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+271F><U+271E><U+260E><U+2721><U+2747><U+261B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2730><U+2702><U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                      <U+272F><U+260E> <U+261B><U+272F><U+271D><U+2732><U+2721><U+2735> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2721><U+2701><U+2721><U+2720><U+2715><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+2730><U+2701><U+2712>
        <U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2701><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706>               <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2732><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2715><U+2720><U+271F><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2737>
                                                                     <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+261E> <U+2747><U+271D><U+2721><U+2735> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+270D><U+2720><U+2702> <U+2732><U+2701><U+2720>
              <U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                        <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+2714>        <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2732><U+271D><U+2715><U+271D><U+270D><U+2720><U+2730> <U+2715><U+2704><U+272F><U+2730><U+272F> <U+2711>
      <U+274B><U+274A><U+2749>
                                               <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+261B><U+260E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2702><U+271D><U+2743>      <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+272F><U+2721><U+2715><U+2720><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+271D><U+2730><U+270F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2702><U+2720><U+2732><U+2713>
                                              <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2721><U+261B><U+270F><U+271D><U+2742>       <U+271D><U+2730><U+2704><U+2732><U+272F><U+2706> <U+270D><U+2731><U+272F><U+2730><U+272F><U+2701><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+272E><U+272D><U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701>
    <removed-date>          <removed-apn>

                                                              <U+2726>      |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                                     <U+260E><U+2721><U+2716><U+272F><U+2715><U+2702><U+272D><U+2701><U+272F><U+2737><U+2736><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734> <U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+272F><U+2733> <U+272F><U+272E>
                                       <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+261E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2716><U+2701> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2702>         <U+2725><U+2713>
       <U+271D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+270E>
                                                  <U+261B><U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+2715><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2731><U+271D><U+2743> <U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2715><U+2702><U+2702><U+2713> <U+272D>
       <U+260E><U+2721><U+2716><U+272F><U+2715><U+2702><U+272D><U+2701><U+272F><U+2737>
      <U+2736><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734> <U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+272F><U+2733>
                                                           <U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2730><U+272F><U+2715><U+2701>  <U+2713><U+272D>
                                                            <U+261B><U+260E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2702><U+271D><U+2743> <U+2747><U+271D><U+2721><U+2744> <U+272D>                    <U+261B><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B><U+270F><U+2713>
                                                    <U+2732><U+271D><U+261B><U+2746> <U+261B><U+2715><U+2704><U+272F>       <U+2712> <U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704><U+270C> <U+272D>     <U+271D><U+2735><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+2730><U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+271E><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2747><U+271D><U+2721><U+2744> <U+272D>
                           <U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+2715><U+2720><U+261E><U+261E><U+2704><U+270C>                     <U+261B><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B><U+270F><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704><U+270C> <U+272D>              <U+261B><U+271D><U+271E><U+2721><U+272F><U+2735><U+2701> <U+2747><U+271D><U+2721><U+2744> <U+272D>
       <U+271C><U+2722><U+2740><U+2723><U+2727><U+273F><U+273E><U+2724><U+2723><U+273D>
                              <U+271D><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2747><U+271D><U+2721><U+2744> <U+272D>           <U+261B><U+260E><U+2701><U+2704><U+272F><U+261E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271D><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704><U+270C> <U+272D>           <U+270D><U+2715><U+2720><U+261E><U+261E><U+2704><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2747><U+271D><U+2721><U+2744> <U+272D>
      <U+273C><U+273B><U+2723><U+273A> <U+2739><U+271B><U+271A><U+2723><U+2738>                   <U+261B><U+2730><U+2721><U+2720><U+260E><U+271D><U+270E>       <U+2732><U+271D><U+2731><U+2715><U+2720><U+271F><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2715><U+2704><U+272F><U+2712> <U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704><U+270C> <U+272D>                      <U+2711> <U+270D><U+2720><U+2714> <U+272D>
                                                                                             <U+261B><U+271D><U+271D>
                          <U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2730><U+260E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2742> <U+2747><U+271D><U+2721><U+2744> <U+272D>           <U+261B><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704><U+270C> <U+272D>               <U+261B><U+2730><U+2721><U+2720><U+260E><U+271D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2701><U+2720><U+271F><U+2711> <U+272D>
     <U+274D><U+274A><U+2749>
                              <U+260E><U+2721><U+2716><U+272F><U+2715><U+2702><U+272D><U+2701><U+272F><U+2737>
                                                           <U+2716><U+2716><U+2720><U+260E><U+270C>
                            <U+2736><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>                                            <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+2714>
<U+25B2>
                                <U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+272F><U+2733>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>
            <U+274A><U+274A><U+2749>
<U+25B2>                                                        <U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+272E> <U+2715><U+271D><U+261B><U+2746>
                                                          <U+270D><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2732>
                         <U+261B><U+271D>
                           <U+2715><U+271D><U+261B><U+2746>
                                                                                            <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+270D><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2748><U+2711><U+2711> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2720><U+2730><U+2704><U+271E><U+2730><U+2720>
                         <U+2732><U+271D><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2731><U+271D><U+2743>
                    <U+272F><U+2737>                                                                    <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2720><U+2732><U+2702>
                                                                                                   <U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2720><U+260E><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2730><U+272F>
                                                                                                   <U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2720><U+2732><U+2702>
                                              <U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2730><U+260E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2742>
     <U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2731><U+271D><U+2743>              <U+2701><U+2721><U+2731><U+272F><U+2733>             <U+272F><U+260E> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2701><U+2731><U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                      <U+2702><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+271D><U+2720><U+270D>
           <U+274A><U+2749><U+2749>
                                               <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2717><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714>
                                                                                 <U+274A><U+2749>
                                                                                              <U+270C><U+261E><U+2706><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                           <U+2715> <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2746>
    <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                          <U+2721>   |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                   <U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2716><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701>                               <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734> <U+272F><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704><U+270C>
                                                             <U+2732><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+261E><U+2715><U+272F><U+2716><U+2701><U+2721>
                    <U+2714><U+2713><U+2712><U+270C>
                                                            <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+2715><U+272F><U+260E><U+270C>
                    <U+270C><U+2706> <U+2711> <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+272F><U+2737>
                                                                     <U+2720><U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                                   <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B><U+270F><U+2720> <U+271D><U+2715><U+272F><U+261E>
                  <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>                                <U+261B><U+271D>
                                                                         <U+270D><U+2701><U+2713>
                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2722><U+2727><U+2723><U+2726><U+271C><U+2719><U+2725>
                        <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
            <U+274A><U+2749>
                                                                     <U+2732><U+271D><U+2715> <U+2747><U+272F><U+271F><U+261B>
                                                                   <U+272F><U+260E> <U+2745><U+271E><U+2721><U+2730><U+271E>   <U+271F>
                                                                   <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B><U+270F><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2732>
                                                                                  <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>
<U+25B2>
<U+261B>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>                                                                    <U+261B><U+271D>
                                                                         <U+2720><U+2715> <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2746>
                                                                     <U+2732><U+271D><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2731><U+271D><U+2743>
                                                              <U+272F><U+2737>
                               <U+274A><U+274A><U+2749>
                                                                         <U+2701><U+2721><U+2731><U+272F><U+2733>
                                                                         <U+2714><U+2711><U+2711>
                                <U+2719><U+2716> <U+271B> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2702><U+2701><U+271B>
    <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                        |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                      <U+25CF><U+274B><U+2749>                                        <U+274B><U+274B><U+2749>
              <U+2704>                       <U+2717><U+273D><U+2702><U+261B><U+2701>                 <U+271E>
                                                         <U+2605><U+2723><U+2739><U+2726>
              <U+2704>                     <U+271D><U+271F><U+272A><U+273D><U+271D><U+2720><U+261B><U+2701>          <U+2729><U+271B><U+2739><U+2723><U+2726><U+271A><U+2722><U+273D>
              <U+2704>                    <U+273D><U+2725><U+2706><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2701>               <U+2727><U+2605><U+2739><U+272B><U+2720>
              <U+2704>                        <U+271F><U+271E><U+2725><U+2738><U+2701>             <U+271B><U+2727><U+271B><U+260E>
              <U+2704>                 <U+273D><U+271D><U+2738><U+2702><U+2717><U+2706><U+273E><U+2717><U+2738><U+2738><U+2717><U+2701>              <U+2724><U+2605> <U+260E>
<U+25B2>
<U+274F>             <U+2704>                         <U+2702><U+2702><U+2725><U+2701>            <U+271B><U+2722><U+2739><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725>
<U+271A><U+2751>
          <U+2713><U+2712><U+2713>                   <U+2711><U+270F><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2702><U+270C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C>        <U+2702><U+2721><U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+270C><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>
                                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+271E><U+2717><U+271B><U+2715><U+2718><U+260E><U+2723><U+2718><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2715><U+271B><U+2706><U+2717><U+2722><U+271E><U+271D><U+2716> <U+2718>
        <U+274A><U+274B><U+2749>
     <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                          <U+2704>   |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                    <U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2716><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701>
                                                                   <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>
                     <U+2714><U+2713><U+2712><U+270C>
                                                             <U+272F><U+260E> <U+261B><U+2730><U+2721><U+2720><U+260E><U+271D><U+2732> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732>
                     <U+270C><U+2706><U+2711><U+2711>
                                                              <U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2730><U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+261E><U+272F>
                                                                   <U+2715><U+272F> <U+270D><U+2730><U+2730><U+2720><U+2704><U+2701><U+2720><U+2706>
                                                                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>    <U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+270D><U+270C>
                   <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>                                <U+2701><U+2721> <U+2732><U+2715><U+272F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732>
                                                                  <U+261B> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2720><U+2732><U+2702>
                                           <U+271D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+270E>
                        <U+2729><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2722><U+2727><U+2723><U+2726><U+271C><U+2719><U+2725>
                                              <U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                         <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
                                                               <U+271D><U+261E><U+2721><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2704><U+272F><U+2736><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2745><U+271E><U+271D>
                                                             <U+2702><U+261E><U+2720><U+260E><U+261B><U+272D><U+271D><U+261E><U+2721><U+260E> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270F>
             <U+274A><U+2749>                                       <U+274B><U+2749><U+2749>     <U+2701><U+2721> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
<U+25B2>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>                                                                   <U+261B><U+271D>
<U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2720>   <U+2732><U+2715><U+2720><U+271E>
                                                                      <U+2732><U+2721><U+2730><U+2720><U+2744>
                                                             <U+272F><U+2737>
                                <U+274A><U+274A><U+2749>
                                                                      <U+2732><U+2715><U+2720><U+271E>
                                                                     <U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+2747><U+270C>
                                                                      <U+2715> <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2746>
                                 <U+2719><U+2716> <U+271B> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2718><U+260E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2714>
    <removed-date>    <removed-apn>

                                        <U+271D>     |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                                                      <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734> <U+272F><U+260E>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2716><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701>                                                                    <U+261B><U+271D><U+2731><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D>
                                                    <U+261B><U+2730><U+2721><U+2720><U+260E><U+271D><U+2732> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713>
                                                                                    <U+2730><U+2720><U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2702><U+272F> <U+270D><U+2720>
               <U+2714><U+2713><U+2712><U+270C>                                 <U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2730><U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+261E><U+272F><U+260E><U+2704><U+2713>
                                                                                         <U+2706><U+261B><U+271D><U+2731><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B>
               <U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2711>                                    <U+2715><U+272F> <U+270D><U+2730><U+2730><U+2720><U+2704><U+2701><U+2720><U+2706>
                                   <U+271D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+270E>             <U+2702><U+2702> <U+2701>   <U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+270D><U+270C>      <U+271E><U+260E><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2704><U+271D><U+2730><U+270F><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+2730><U+2702><U+2702><U+2720>
             <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>
                                   <U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+270D><U+270C>           <U+2701><U+2721> <U+2732><U+2715><U+272F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713>
                                                      <U+261B> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2720><U+2732><U+2702><U+2746>
                                                                            <U+2741> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+2731> <U+271D>   <U+2720> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> 
                                              <U+274B><U+2749><U+2749>                          <U+2720><U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2716><U+272F> <U+272E><U+2746><U+2712> <U+2715>
                                                                                     <U+271F>
                  <U+2729><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2722><U+2727><U+2723><U+2726><U+271C><U+2719><U+2725>                                                  <U+2715><U+2704><U+272F><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2721><U+2701><U+2731><U+2721><U+261B> 
                   <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>                                                   <U+2731> <U+271D>       <U+260E><U+2704><U+2712> <U+2715><U+272F> <U+2701> 
       <U+274A><U+2749>                                                                     <U+2720>   <U+2741> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+2714> <U+2715><U+272F>
                                                                           <U+2706><U+2704><U+272F><U+270D> <U+271D><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2731> <U+271D> <U+2701>         <U+271F>   <U+2701>
<U+25B2>
                                                                                    <U+2715><U+272F> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+2714> <U+270D>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>
<U+271E>                                                                                         <U+261B><U+271D>
                          <U+274A><U+274A><U+2749>
                                                                                              <U+2720><U+2737> <U+2714>
                                                                                              <U+2732><U+2721><U+2730><U+2720><U+2744>
                                                                               <U+272F><U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+2737> <U+2714> <U+2715> <U+271D><U+260E> <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2715> <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2746>
                                   <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2723>
                                <U+2719><U+2716> <U+271B>                             <U+260E>
    <removed-date>       <removed-apn>

                                                    <U+2702>   |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                   <U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2716><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701>
                                                                <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>
                    <U+2714><U+2713><U+2712><U+270C>
                                                           <U+272F><U+260E> <U+261B><U+2730><U+2721><U+2720><U+260E><U+271D><U+2732> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713>
                    <U+270C><U+2706> <U+2711> <U+2711>                                  <U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2730><U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+261E><U+272F><U+260E><U+2704><U+2713>
                                            <U+274A><U+2749>           <U+274B><U+2749><U+2749>
                <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261E><U+2701><U+2715><U+271D><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                <U+271D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+270E>                    <U+2702><U+2702> <U+2701>   <U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+270D>
           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2722><U+2727><U+2723><U+2726><U+271C><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>                                 <U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+270D><U+270C>                   <U+2732><U+2715><U+272F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720>
                                                                                            <U+261B> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2720>
                     <U+261B><U+2730><U+2721><U+2720><U+260E><U+271D><U+2732>
                                                         <U+274A><U+274A><U+2749>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2713> <U+260E><U+261B><U+271D><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2715>
                                                                                                        <U+2701>
<U+25B2>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>
               <U+2702><U+2704><U+272F><U+2715><U+2734> <U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711>
                                                                                     <U+271F>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+2732><U+2721><U+2730><U+272F><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2741><U+2702> <U+2701> 
                                                                                 <U+2731> <U+271D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2721><U+2735><U+2715><U+271D><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2730><U+2721><U+270F><U+272F><U+2706>
                                                                                   <U+272F><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272F><U+261B><U+2720><U+271D><U+2715> <U+2732><U+2701><U+2720> <U+271D><U+2732>
<U+2704>                   <U+271D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+270E>                  <U+274D><U+274A><U+2749>                             <U+2701><U+271D><U+2732><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271D><U+2704>       <U+2721><U+2701><U+2704> <U+261B> <U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F>
                    <U+260E><U+2721><U+2716><U+272F><U+2715><U+2702><U+272D><U+2701><U+272F><U+2737>
                       <U+2736><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734>
                      <U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+272F><U+2733>                                                              <U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+271E> <U+261E><U+272F><U+2715><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271D>
                                                                                         <U+272F><U+271F><U+2747> <U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2732><U+2730><U+2721><U+271F><U+2711> 
                    <U+260E><U+2721><U+2716><U+272F><U+2715><U+2702><U+272D><U+2701><U+272F><U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+274B><U+274A><U+2749>
                   <U+2736><U+2735><U+272F><U+2734> <U+2730><U+2720><U+271E><U+272F><U+2733>                                                                      <U+2715> <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2746>
                               <U+271C><U+2722><U+2740><U+2723><U+2727><U+273F><U+273E><U+2724><U+2723><U+273D>
                  <U+273C><U+271C><U+2724><U+2605><U+272C><U+2724><U+2727><U+2605><U+273B><U+2723><U+273A> <U+2739><U+271B><U+271A><U+2723><U+2738>
                                              <U+2719><U+2716> <U+271B><U+271E><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2718><U+2722><U+271E><U+2714><U+2723>
    <removed-date>      <removed-apn>

                                       <U+2735>   |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                            <U+261B><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2704><U+272F><U+270F><U+2713>
                        <U+2747><U+272F><U+2737> <U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2731><U+271D><U+2743>
                           <U+2701><U+271E><U+2734><U+2723><U+2733>                                 <U+2732>       <U+271A><U+2724><U+2727><U+2731><U+2730>
                                                          <U+272F><U+272B> <U+272E> <U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2719><U+2722><U+2714><U+2717><U+272D>
                                                       <U+261E><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2701><U+272F><U+2702><U+2731><U+2721><U+270F>    <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+261E><U+261B> <U+2706>
                                                              <U+2741>        <U+2704>   <U+2702> <U+2706>
<U+25B2>
                                                  <U+272C><U+2702> <U+2701>
                                                   <U+2741>                         <U+272B>
                                                        <U+2711> <U+2744> <U+2745><U+2715><U+2720><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2715><U+271D><U+270F><U+2730><U+2713> <U+2701><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2715><U+2720><U+2711>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>
    <U+2736>                                   <U+2719><U+272A><U+2724><U+2716><U+2727><U+271C><U+2719><U+2729><U+2714><U+2605><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2719><U+271C><U+2727><U+2726><U+2725><U+271A><U+2724><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2722><U+271C><U+2715><U+2714><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713>
                         <U+271D><U+2712><U+261E><U+2704><U+270E><U+2720><U+271D><U+2711><U+2701><U+270F><U+2701><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2720><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+271E><U+261E><U+260E><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2721><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
           <U+274A>   <U+2737>
               <U+2749>
        <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

       <U+2773>
       <U+2772>
       <U+2771>
                                       <U+272F>
                           <U+272C>
                   <U+271B>
                                       <U+271C>
                           <U+271A>
                                       <U+271B>
                   <U+271A>
                           <U+2717>
                           <U+2723>
                                       <U+271A>
                   <U+2723>
                                   <U+2605>
                                       <U+2719>
                           <U+272B>
                   <U+272C>
                                   <U+2722>
                           <U+2605>
                                   <U+2719>
                                       <U+2718>
                   <U+2725>
                           <U+2725>
                                       <U+2717>
                   <U+271B>
                           <U+271B>
                               <U+272E>
                                       <U+2716>
                   <U+272B>
                                   <U+272B>
                                       <U+2723>
                           <U+272C>
                                   <U+2605>
                   <U+2727>
                           <U+2717>
                                       <U+2719>
              <U+2714>
                                   <U+2719>
                   <U+272B>                   <U+271A>
                           <U+272A>
              <U+2713>                    <U+271A>
                           <U+2723>
              <U+2720>
                           <U+2717>
                   <U+272A>
                                       <U+2729>
              <U+270F>
                           <U+271B>
                                   <U+272C>
                   <U+2724>
                                       <U+272C>
              <U+2712>
                           <U+271A>
                                   <U+271A>
                                   <U+2717>   <U+2725>
              <U+2711>
                           <U+2716>
                   <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                   <U+2723>
              <U+270F>
                           <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                   <U+2725>                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
              <U+270E>
                           <U+2722>
                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                           <U+273F>
              <U+2720>
                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                       
                                   <U+272C>
                           <U+272B>
                   <U+2725>
                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>
                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                   <U+272B>
              <U+270D>
                           <U+2605>
                                   <U+2605>
                                       <U+2723>
<U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                       <U+274B>
                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2735>
              <U+270C>
                           <U+2722>
                                   <U+2727>   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                           <U+2719>                                                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                           <U+25D7>
<U+274F>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2735>
                                   <U+2731>
                   <U+271C>
              <U+261E>                                                                                                                                    <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
<U+2751>
                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                               <U+273C>
                       <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                   <U+2725>
                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273E>
                                                                               <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                           <U+2735>
                           <U+272B>
              <U+261B>
                                   <U+2719>
                   <U+2726>
<U+276F>                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2736>
                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                           <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                           P
              <U+2721>
                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                               <U+2751>
                                   <U+2725>
              <U+2720>
                                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                   <U+2717>
                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2756>
                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273D>
                           <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273E>
                                   <U+271B>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                           <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2745>
                   <U+2724>
                                       <U+2723>
                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                       
                                   <U+2724>
                                                                                                                           <U+2744>       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                   <U+2723>
                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
              <U+271E>
                           <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273F>
                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2747>
                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                           <U+273E>
                                   <U+2730>
                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                           <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                           <U+271A>
                                                                   <U+2733>
                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2733>       <U+2733>
                                                                                                           <U+2735>
                   <U+2722>                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+25C6>
                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                                   <U+2747>
                                   <U+272F>
                                                               <U+273C>
                                                       <U+273C>
                           <U+2716>                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>       <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                                                                           <U+273E>
                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                   <U+2747>
                                                   <U+2733>                                                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                   <U+271C>                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                   <U+2736>               <U+2746>
                                   <U+2729>
                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                           <U+2744>               <U+2738>
                                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                       <U+272E>
                                                       <U+273B>       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273B>       <U+273B>
                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                   <U+2736>
                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                               <U+274D>       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2736>               <U+2736>
                                                               <U+273A>
                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>       <U+273A>
                                                                                                   <U+2746>
                                       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                   <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                           <U+272C>
                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                           <U+274F>
                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                   <U+2746>                                       <U+273C>                                       <U+273B>
                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                   <U+2745>
                   <U+271B>
                                                       <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+275A>
                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2741>
                                   <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                           <U+2717>
                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2723>
                                       <U+271B>                                                                           <U+2736>
                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                               <U+274D>
                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273C>
                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                               <U+2739>
                                                               <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273F>
                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                   <U+274F>
                           <U+2729>                           <U+273F>                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+272C>           <U+273F>
                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                           <U+273C>
                                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                                           <U+273F>
                                           <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                           <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                   <U+2744>               <U+273F>
                                           <U+2605>           <U+273E>                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273E>
                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                   <U+273C>
                   <U+2718>
                                       <U+2716>                                                                   <U+273A>
                                                                                           <U+2739>
                                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                           <U+2735>                       <U+2736>
                                           <U+2717>
                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                   <U+2723>
                   <U+2717>       <U+272B>
                                                                           <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271B>                               <U+2742>
                                       <U+2723>                       <U+273B>
                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                           <U+2738>           <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736>
                                                       <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273E>
                                                                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                               <U+2736>       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736>       <U+2735>
                                                                                   <U+273A>           <U+2749>
                                           <U+2716>
                                                                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273C>
                           <U+2722>
                   <U+2716>                           <U+2735>               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>               <U+273A>
                                       <U+2722>
                                                                                                                   <U+2745>           
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                   <U+2715>   <U+272D>           <U+2723>   <U+272B>                                                                           <U+2744>
                                           <U+2732>   <U+2734>       <U+273D>       <U+2734>           <U+2741>       <U+2743>           <U+2748>       <U+274A>       <U+25CF>           <U+273C>       <U+2738>                   |
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2734>       <U+273D>       <U+2734>           <U+2741>
    <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                      <U+2701><U+2759> |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                                       <U+2717><U+273D><U+2702><U+261B><U+2701>              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2739><U+2726><U+271E>
                                <U+273D><U+271D><U+2738><U+2702><U+2717><U+2706><U+273E><U+2717><U+2738><U+2738><U+2717><U+2701>                <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E>
                                         <U+2702><U+2702><U+2725><U+2701>            <U+271B><U+2722><U+2739><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725>
                                      <U+2702><U+2717><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702><U+2725>             <U+272B><U+2605><U+2739><U+272B><U+271B><U+271D>
                                     <U+271E><U+273D><U+2721><U+271D><U+2720><U+273D><U+2725>              <U+2739><U+2605><U+2706><U+271B><U+2729><U+271D>
<U+25B2>
<U+2751><U+274F>                                       <U+260E>
                                   <U+273D><U+2721><U+272A><U+2702><U+2717> <U+273D><U+2725>                <U+2704><U+271A><U+271B><U+2706>
<U+274F>
          <U+2713><U+2712><U+2713>                   <U+2711><U+270F><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2702><U+270C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C>           <U+270C><U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2720><U+2706><U+270E><U+271F>
                                                <U+2718><U+2719><U+271E><U+2717><U+271B><U+2715><U+2718><U+260E><U+2723><U+2718><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2715><U+271B><U+2706><U+2717><U+2722><U+271E><U+271D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2701>
         <U+2702>
        <U+274A> <U+2749>
     <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                       <U+2759><U+2759>      |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                                                                                                       <U+272F><U+2716><U+2701> 
                                                        <U+25CF><U+2749>
                  <U+274B><U+2749>                                                          <U+261B><U+2721><U+2706><U+271B><U+270E><U+2713><U+260E><U+271A><U+2723><U+2719><U+2723><U+2718><U+2722><U+2717><U+2720><U+271D><U+2713><U+2711><U+2725><U+2716><U+270E><U+2724><U+2716><U+271D><U+2715><U+2722><U+2720><U+2721><U+261E><U+260E><U+2714><U+2720><U+261E><U+261E><U+2704><U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+261E><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+2704><U+2711><U+271F><U+271D><U+270F><U+270E><U+2704><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D>
                                                           <U+272B><U+2712><U+2701> <U+261E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2743>
                                           <U+2727>
                            <U+2726>
                            <U+2712><U+272E> <U+2706><U+270C> <U+271D><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+2743>
                                           <U+2701>
                                       <U+2726>                   <U+2701><U+2712><U+2741> <U+261E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2743>
                          <U+2737><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2733><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271D><U+2721><U+2735><U+271D><U+260E><U+270C>
                                                                                               <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+2715><U+260E><U+261B>
                           <U+2737><U+2742><U+2712><U+2743><U+2748> <U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+2720>      <U+2741>
<U+25B2>
<U+274F>
                        <U+2734><U+2737><U+2712><U+2743><U+272E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2743><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713>    <U+2701>               <U+2741>   <U+2712><U+2702> <U+261E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2743>                                         <U+261B>
<U+2751>                               <U+2706><U+2732><U+271D><U+2701><U+2731><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2720><U+2701><U+2746>
<U+274F>
                                                                                                      <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720>
                                                       <U+2701>
<U+274F>
                                <U+270C><U+261E><U+2706><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D>         <U+261E><U+261E>               <U+270C><U+2706>   <U+271F><U+270D>                                  <U+2701>
                                                   <U+271E>
                                               <U+2719> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2715><U+2718>
                                               <U+2718>           <U+260E>             <U+2706> <U+271E><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2715><U+2702>
                                                                <U+2718> <U+2716> <U+2718><U+2715><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2722> <U+2716>
                                                              <U+2723> <U+2723>              <U+2718>               <U+2723>   <U+2714> <U+2722><U+2718>
      <U+274A><U+2749>
    <removed-date>    <removed-apn>

                                                            <U+2726>   <U+2759>      |<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
                                                                                      <U+271E><U+270D> <U+2713>       <U+271B><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714>
                                                                                      <U+271E><U+270D> <U+2712>
                                                                                  <U+25CF> <U+2749> <U+271E><U+270D> <U+2711>
                                                            <U+274B>      <U+2749>                  <U+271E><U+270D> <U+270F>
                                                                                      <U+271E><U+270D> <U+270E>
                                        <U+2749>                                            <U+271E><U+270D> <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+270C><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B>
                                               <U+2702><U+271C>            <U+272B><U+2727> <U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+271C> <U+271E><U+271D> <U+2720><U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+271E><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+271E><U+271D> <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+271E><U+271D> <U+2706>
                        <U+272E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2720><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2721><U+2715>     <U+2711>    <U+272F><U+2701> <U+2704><U+271F><U+272E> <U+272C><U+2701> <U+2732><U+271D><U+2742> <U+272B><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2704><U+272E> <U+2727><U+2701> <U+2701><U+272F><U+2706>              <U+271D><U+261E><U+2721><U+272E>
<U+25B2>
                                               <U+2730><U+2720><U+260E><U+272F><U+272E>        <U+260E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2733>       <U+2715><U+2720><U+2732><U+2701><U+271D><U+2730><U+2720><U+2711>
<U+274F>
<U+2751>
<U+25B2>
                             <U+260E><U+2727><U+272C> <U+2727><U+260E><U+272C> <U+2741><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2715><U+271D><U+270F><U+261E><U+2704><U+2737> <U+2737><U+2743><U+2711>
                                         <U+2711>
<U+274F>
                                                                   <U+271F><U+260E><U+2721><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271D><U+2721><U+2732><U+272F><U+2726> <U+2704> <U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D><U+2714> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2715><U+2720><U+2714>
                                                                                                        <U+272F><U+2716><U+2701> 
                        <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+2732><U+271D><U+2743> <U+271D><U+271D>         <U+2706><U+2732><U+272F><U+271F><U+260E><U+271D><U+2706> <U+2748><U+2711><U+2711>
                                         <U+272F>     <U+2706><U+261B><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271D><U+261B><U+270F><U+2713>                  <U+2727><U+2702><U+2702><U+2741> <U+2702><U+271D><U+270C> <U+2741><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2748><U+2712><U+270E>
                                                                                                    <U+2701><U+272F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2720><U+2715><U+260E><U+261B>
                                                                <U+2720><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2702><U+261E>  <U+273A>               <U+2605><U+271A><U+2722><U+2739><U+2725>                 <U+261B>
                                                                                                        <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+2720>
                         <U+2711>
                  <U+270D> <U+2730> <U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720>     <U+270D><U+270F> <U+260E><U+2715><U+272F><U+270C>
                                                       <U+2702><U+2720>   <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2701><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+270C><U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2720><U+2706><U+270E><U+271F>                <U+2701>
      <U+274A>   <U+2749>                                                            <U+2718><U+2719><U+271E><U+2717><U+271B><U+2715><U+2718><U+260E><U+2723><U+2718><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2715><U+271B><U+2706><U+2717><U+2722><U+271E><U+271D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2701><U+2715><U+2702><U+2723><U+2714><U+2722><U+2718> 
    <removed-date>         <removed-apn>

