  ABSTRACT
  A gaming machine has a display and a game controller arranged to control images of
  symbols displayed on the display. The game controller is arranged to play a game
  wherein at least one random event is caused to be displayed on the display. If a
5 predefined winning event occurs, the machine awards a prize. The game includes a
  bonus feature which, when triggered, results in the display of a plurality of devices,
  each of which animates to reveal a number, a prize awarded being a product of the
  numbers displayed by the devices.
                                                                       10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                                   1
                         A GAMING MACHINE WITH BONUS FEATURE
   Field of the Invention
            This invention relates to a gaming machine. More particularly, the invention
   relates to a gaming machine and to an improvement to a game played on such a
 5 gaming machine.
            This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   2010200053, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Background to the Invention
            Players who regularly play gaming machines quickly tire of particular games
10 and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to develop
   innovative game features which add interest to the games. In so doing, it is hoped to
   keep players amused and therefore willing to continue playing the game as well as to
   attract new players.
            Also, with the growth that has occurred in the gaming machine market, there is
15 intense competition between manufacturers to supply various existing and new
   venues. When selecting a supplier of gaming machines, the operator of a venue will
   often pay close attention to the popularity of various games with their patrons.
   Therefore, gaming machine manufacturers are keen to devise games and/or game
   features which are popular with the players as a mechanism for improving sales,
20 retaining customers and attracting new customers.
   Summary of the Invention
            According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming system
   comprising an electronic game controller, and a data storage device comprising game
   data, the electronic game controller and the data storage device being arranged such
25 that the electronic game controller can process the game data to effect play of a first
   game and a plurality of second games, a wager being placed on said first game, each
   of said second games having different play characteristics with respect to each other,
   one of the plurality of second games is arranged to determine a value of a prize by
   randomly selecting a plurality of numbers during play of said one game, each said
30 plurality of numbers being selected within a predefined range of numbers, said one
   game multiplying said plurality of selected numbers together to thereby obtain the
                                                                            10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                                 2
   value of the prize, and wherein the electronic game controller and the data storage
   device being further arranged to allow the electronic game controller to carry out a
   random selection process during play of the first game in order to randomly select one
   of the second games, independently of a game outcome of the first game, for play by a
 5 player, and wherein the random selection process is such that a second game is only
   eligible to be selected if an opportunity to play a second game has been purchased
   with the wager placed on the first game.
            According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
   execution in conjunction with a gaming system including an electronic game controller,
10 and a data storage device comprising game data, said method comprising:
            arranging the electronic game controller and the data storage device such that
   the electronic game controller can process the game data to effect play of a first game
   and a plurality of second games, a wager being placed on said first game, each of said
   second games having different play characteristics with respect to each other, one of
15 the plurality of second games is arranged to determine a value of a prize by randomly
   selecting each of a plurality of numbers within a predefined range of numbers and
   multiplying the plurality of selected numbers together to thereby obtain the value of the
   prize; and
            allowing the electronic game controller to carry out a random selection process
20 during play of the first game in order to randomly select one of the second games,
   independently of a game outcome of the first game, for play by a player, and wherein
   the random selection process is such that a second game is only eligible to be selected
   if an opportunity to play a second game has been purchased with the wager placed on
   the first game.
25 Brief Description of the Drawings
            The invention is now described by way of example with reference to the
   accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
            Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a gaming machine, in accordance with an
   embodiment of the invention;
30          Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machine;
            Figure 3 shows a screen display of a base game forming part of a game played
   on the gaming machine of Figure 1;
            Figure 4 shows a screen display when a composite feature is triggered on the
   gaming machine of Figure 1;
                                                                         10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                                   3
             Figures 5a to 5c show a sequence of screen displays of a bonus feature which
   is one of the features of the composite feature; and
             Figure 6 shows a flow chart of the game played on the gaming machine when,
   firstly, the composite feature has been triggered and, secondly, the bonus feature of
 5  Figures 5a to 5c has been selected.
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
             In Figure 1 of the drawings, reference numeral 10 generally designates a
   gaming machine, including a game, in accordance with the invention. The machine 10
   includes a console 12 having a video display unit 14 on which a game 16 is played, in
10 use. The game 16 is, preferably but not necessarily exclusively, a spinning reel game
   which simulates the rotation of a number of spinning reels 18. A midtrim 20 of the
   machine 10 houses a keypad 22 of buttons for enabling a player to play the game 16.
   The midtrim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 including a coin input chute
   24.1 and a bill collector 24.2.
15           The machine 10 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is carried. The
   artwork 28 includes paytables, details of bonus awards, etc.
             A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
   machine 10.
             Referring now to Figure 2 of the drawings, a control means or control circuit 32
20 is illustrated. A program which implements the game and user interface is run on a
   processor 34 of the control circuit 32. The processor 34 forms part of a controller 36
   that drives the screen of the video display unit 14 and that receives input signals from
   sensors 38. The sensors 38 include sensors associated with the keypad 22 and touch
   sensors mounted in the screen of the video display unit 14. The controller 36 also
25 receives input pulses from the mechanism 24 to determine whether or not a player has
   provided sufficient credit to commence playing. The mechanism 24 may, instead of the
   coin input chute 24.1 or the bill collector 24.2, or in addition thereto, be a credit card
   reader (not shown) or any other type of validation device.
             Finally, the controller 36 drives a payout mechanism 40 which, for example,
30 may be a coin hopper for feeding coins to the coin tray 30 to make a pay out to a
   player when the player wishes to redeem his or her credit.
                                                                            10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                                    4
            Figure 3 of the drawings shows a screen display 50 of a base game 52 forming
   part of the game 16 played on the gaming machine 10. The base game 52 is a
   spinning reel game comprising a plurality of spinning reels 18. The example shown is
   the Applicant's base game called "Golden CanariesTM". However, any other base game
 5 52 could be used in the game 16. The base game 52, in fact, need not be a spinning
   reel game and could, for example, be a card game, a ball-type game, such as Bingo,
   Keno, or the like.
            The game 16 includes a composite feature called "Lucky DeviTM ". The
   composite feature comprises a plurality of unrelated bonus features which are
10 independent of and unrelated to the base game 52. The composite feature, for
   example, comprises five different bonus features. One of these bonus features is the
   subject of the present invention and is described in greater detail below with reference
   to Figures 5a-5c of the drawings.
            To be eligible for the composite feature, the player must wager an additional
15 bet. The base game 52 has 20 paylines and, assuming the player wagers one bet per
   line, a total of twenty credits would be required to play all 20 lines of the base game 52.
   However, an additional wager of five credits is wagered by the player as indicated at
   54 on a bet meter on the screen display 50. The wagering of the additional bet merely
   gives the player eligibility to participate in the composite feature. It does not guarantee
20 that the composite feature will occur during the playing of the base game 52.
            A decision as to whether or not the composite feature is triggered is made by
   the controller 36 randomly. The determination as to whether or not the composite
   feature is to be triggered is entirely independent of the base game 52 and also of the
   result of that base game. In other words, no win need appear in the base game 52 nor
25 need any special symbols occur in the base game 52 for the composite feature to be
   triggered. The chances of triggering the composite feature are preferably the same
   regardless of which base game 52 is being played.
            Should a determination be made by the controller 36 that the composite feature
   25 is to be triggered, a special banner 56 (Figure 4) is displayed over the base game
30 52 after completion of the current base game 52 in order to alert the player that one of
   the bonus features constituting the composite feature is about to occur.
            Once again, the controller 36 makes a random determination as to which bonus
   feature of the composite feature is to occur.
                                                                             10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                                    5
             Should it be determined that the bonus feature to occur is a "dice feature", the
   screen display 50 is replaced by a second screen display 60 as shown in Figures 5a to
   5c of the drawings. A message (not shown) on the screen of the video display unit 14
   instructs a player to press the START FEATURE button of the keypad 22 to
 5 commence the feature.
             A character 62 of a devil animates on the screen 60 to shake a plurality of dice
   64, preferably three such dice 64, while waiting for the player to press the START
    FEATURE button. When the START FEATURE button is pressed, three outcomes,
   one for each die 64, are randomly selected being numbers in the range from 1 to 6.
10  Instead, each random selection may be made just prior to the animation for that die 64.
             The character 62 animates to throw a first of the dice 64 which lands with the
   first randomly selected number on a visible face 66 of the first die 64. This animation is
   repeated with the remaining dice, one after the other, until the three outcomes are
   shown on the screen as shown in Figure 5c of the drawings. The prize awarded to the
15 player is the product of the numbers appearing on the visible faces 66 of the dice 64.
   Accordingly, in the illustrated example, the basic prize is a prize of sixteen credits.
             However, if the numbers on two of the faces 66 of the dice 64 are the same
   then the prize is multiplied by a predetermined multiplier, in this case the multiple being
   five. If the numbers on the visible faces 66 of all three dice 64 are the same, then the
20 prize awarded is multiplied by a higher multiplier, for example, a multiplier of ten.
             In addition, the prize awarded is multiplied by the bet made by the player. In
   this case, the player has bet one credit per line on 20 lines plus the additional five
   credits to obtain eligibility to the composite feature. Therefore, the win for the outcome
   illustrated in Figure 5c of the drawings is:
25 4 x4 x1 x5 x20= 1600
   which is credited to a win meter 68 displayed on the screen display 60. A message 70
   is also displayed on the screen display 60 to show that a double has been "thrown".
   Naturally, should a "triple" be "thrown", the appropriate message 70 would, instead, be
   displayed on the screen 60.
30           It is to be noted that the dice 64 are thrown one after the other so that the
   outcomes appear serially to heighten the sense of anticipation for the player.
                                                                            10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                                   6
             In the playing of the game 16 on the gaming machine 10, a random weighted
   decision is made by the controller 36 as to whether or not the composite feature is to
   occur and, if so, which bonus feature is to be awarded. These determinations are
   made by the controller 36 such that the overall return to player of the gaming machine
 5  10 is substantially unchanged in comparison with a gaming machine 10 without the
   composite feature.
             It is an advantage of the invention that a bonus feature is provided which forms
   part of a composite feature. The composite feature, in turn, enhances a base game
   which underlies the composite feature. As a result, the player's enjoyment of the game
10 is enhanced.
             It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
   and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
   embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
   described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
15 illustrative and not restrictive.
             In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
20 preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
                                                                            10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                                 7
   Claims
   1.     A gaming system comprising an electronic game controller, and a data storage
          device comprising game data, the electronic game controller and the data
          storage device being arranged such that the electronic game controller can
 5        process the game data to effect play of a first game and a plurality of second
          games, a wager being placed on said first game, each of said second games
          having different play characteristics with respect to each other, one of the
          plurality of second games is arranged to determine a value of a prize by
          randomly selecting a plurality of numbers during play of said one game, each
10        said plurality of numbers being selected within a predefined range of numbers,
          and said plurality of selected numbers being multiplied together to thereby
          obtain the value of the prize, and wherein the electronic game controller and
          the data storage device are further arranged to allow the electronic game
          controller to carry out a random selection process during play of the first game
15        in order to randomly select one of the second games, independently of a game
          outcome of the first game, for play by a player, and wherein the random
          selection process is such that a second game is only eligible to be selected if
          an opportunity to play a second game has been purchased with the wager
          placed on the first game.
20 2.     The gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the random selection
          process is such that it ensures the gaming system has a return-to-player
          characteristic that is substantially the same as another return-to-player
          characteristic associated with another gaming system that does not comprise
          the plurality of second games.
25 3.     The gaming system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the gaming
          system is further arranged to multiply the value of the prize by an amount
          wagered on a play of the first game.
   4.     The gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
          electronic game controller and the data storage device are further arranged
30        such that the electronic game controller, subsequent to carrying out the random
          selection process, causes a visual display of an indication to inform a player
          that the one of the plurality of second games is available for play.
                                                                         10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                            8
   5. The gaming system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
      gaming system is arranged to depict a random selection of the plurality of
      numbers by effecting a visual display of a plurality of dice each of which
      represents a random selection of one of the plurality of numbers.
 5 6. The gaming system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the one of the plurality of
      second games includes a character that animates to perform a routine
      simulation of shaking of the plurality of dice in the character's hand followed by
      a simulation of throwing of the dice.
   7. A method for execution in conjunction with a gaming system including an
10    electronic game controller, and a data storage device comprising game data,
      said method comprising:
               arranging the electronic game controller and the data storage device
      such that the electronic game controller can process the game data to effect
      play of a first game and a plurality of second games, a wager being placed on
15    said first game, each of said second games having different play characteristics
      with respect to each other, one of the plurality of second games is arranged to
      determine a value of a prize by randomly selecting each of a plurality of
      numbers within a predefined range of numbers and multiplying the plurality of
      selected numbers together to thereby obtain the value of the prize; and
20             allowing the electronic game controller to carry out a random selection
      process during play of the first game in order to randomly select one of the
      second games, independently of a game outcome of the first game, for play by
      a player, and wherein the random selection process is such that a second
      game is only eligible to be selected if an opportunity to play a second game has
25    been purchased with the wager placed on the first game.
   8. The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the random selection process is
      such that it ensures the gaming system has a return-to-player characteristic
      that is substantially the same as another return-to-player characteristic
      associated with another gaming system that does not comprise the plurality of
30    second games.
   9. The method as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the gaming system is
      further arranged to multiply the value of the prize by an amount wagered on a
      play of the first game.
                                                                      10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

                                              9
   10. The method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the electronic
       game controller and the data storage device are further arranged such that the
       electronic game controller can, subsequent to carrying out the random selection
       process, effect a visual display of an indication to inform a player that the one of
 5     the plurality of second games is available for play.
   11. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the gaming system is arranged to
       depict a random selection of the plurality of numbers by effecting a visual
       display of a plurality of dice each of which represents a random selection of one
       of the plurality of numbers.
10 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the one of the plurality of second
       games includes a character that animates to perform a routine simulating the
       shaking of the plurality of dice in the character's hand followed by a simulation
       of throwing of the dice.
                                                                      10183402_1 (GHMatters) P88244.AU.4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
