BIGUANIDE COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF TREATING
METABOLIC DISORDERS
ABSTRACT
Provided herein are methods for treating certain conditions, including diabetes, obesity, and
other metabolic diseases, disorders or conditions by administrating a composition comprising a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin. Also provided herein are biguanide
or related heterocyclic compound compositions, and methods for the preparation thereof for use
in the methods of the present invention. Also provided herein are compositions comprising
metformin and salts thereof and methods of use.

                                                 1
   BIGUANIDE COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF TREATING METABOLIC
                                          DISORDERS
                                      CROSS-REFERENCE
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012363873
(national phase of PCT/US2012/046335). PCT/US2012/046335 is a continuation-in-part of
U.S. Application No. 13/345,135 and PCT Application No. PCT/US2012/020548, both of
which were filed January 6, 2012. This application also claims priority to U.S. Application
No 61/649,171, filed May 18, 2012. Each of the above-identified applications is incorporated
herein in its entirety by reference.
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
[0002] The present invention relates generally to compositions for targeted administration of
biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds to a subject, e.g., in methods of treating
metabolic disorders.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Despite the longstanding, massive, effort to develop effective treatments for diabetes,
metabolic syndrome, obesity, overweight and related metabolic conditions, the number of
people worldwide who suffer from them is rapidly growing. These conditions result in
numerous medical complications, a lowered quality of life, shortened lifespan, lost work
productivity, a strain on medical systems, and a burden on medical insurance providers that
translates into increased costs for all. Additionally, maintenance of health, including healthy
body weight and healthy blood glucose levels is desirable.
[0004] Type II diabetes treatments in use or development are designed to lower blood glucose
levels. They include mimetics of GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide- 1), a hormone that plays a
key role in regulating insulin, glucose and hunger. Examples of mimetics are the GLP- 1
receptor agonist, Exenatide (Byetta@) and the GLP-1 analog Liraglutide. Other drugs inhibit
DPP-IV, an enzyme that rapidly degrades endogenous GLP-1. Exenatide is a GLP-1 receptor
agonist that is degraded more slowly by DPP-IV. Liraglutide, a GLP-1 analog, is attached to
a fatty acid molecule that binds to albumin and slows the rate of GLP-1 release and its
degradation. (See,

e.g., Nicolucci, et al., 2008, "Incretin-based therapies: a new potential treatment approach to
overcome clinical inertia in type 2 diabetes," Acta Biomedica 79(3):184-91 and U.S. Pat. No.
5,424,286 "Exendin-3 and exendin-4 polypeptides, and pharmaceutical compositions comprising
same.")
 [00051 Metformin, a bigaunide, is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance
in patients with type II diabetes by lowering both basal and post-prandial plasma glucose. Its
pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic
agents. Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production, decreases intestinal absorption of
glucose, and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization.
However, metformin is reported to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of
metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment of renal
function. For example, in patients with known or suspected impaired renal function such as
those with advanced age, metformin administration requires close dose monitoring and titration
to prevent lactic acidosis, a potentially fatal metabolic complication. Patients with concomitant
cardiovascular or liver disease, sepsis, and hypoxia have also increased the risk of lactic acidosis.
Thus, metformin remains an unavailable and/or risky treatment for certain patient groups due to
its side effects.
[00061 Until very recently, obesity treatments include two FDA-approved drugs. Orlistat
(Xenical@) reduces intestinal fat absorption by inhibiting pancreatic lipase. Sibutramine
(Meridia@), taken off the market in Europe and the USA, decreases appetite by inhibiting
deactivation of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine. Undesirable side
effects, including effects on blood pressure, have been reported with these drugs. (See, e.g.,
"Prescription Medications for the Treatment of Obesity," NIH Publication No. 07-4191,
December 2007). Surgical treatments, including gastric bypass surgery and gastric banding, are
available, but only in extreme cases. These procedures can be dangerous, and furthermore may
not be appropriate options for patients with more modest weight loss goals.
                                                  -2-

                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00071 Provided herein are compositions having at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound, including metformin, and methods of treatment using the compositions.
                                                                                     the systemic
[0008] In some embodiments, the compositions herein are adapated to minimize
bioavailability of the compound, e.g., reduce average systemic bioavailability of the biguanide
compared to a composition having an equivalent amount of the compound formulated for
immediate release. In some embodiments, the compositions described herein can be adapted for
release to the upper or small intestine, to the lower or large intestine, or both. Administration of
the compositions into the intestine is via any known method including oral. In some
embodiments, the compositions described herein comprise a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound adapted to release a therapeutically effective amount of the biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound beyond the stomach.
[00091 In certain embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is selected from
a compound of structural Formula I,
                                           R61 N       NR7
                                            N       N.     N'R5
                                             I       I     I
                                            R1      R3     R4
                                                   (I)
        wherein:
        RI, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, and R7 are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
        optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylary; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R6 and R7 may join to form a bond, together forming a ring including the nitrogen
atoms to which they are attached;
                                                  -3-

        or RI and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
         or R4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
 [0010] In some embodiments,
         O-Rx is selected from: O-Cl to C8 straight chain or branched chain alkyl; O-C3 to C7
cycloalkyl; O-C4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and O-thioesters .
 [0011] In other embodiments,
         R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or
isopropyl; and
         RI is selected from:
         H,
         Cl to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, N12, NH-alkyl,
         Cl to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
         C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
         C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
         C4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl,
         C3 to C1I alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
         phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
         alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
         pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl,
triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
 [0012] In certain embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is selected from
a compound of structural Formula IA,
                                                  -4-

                                               N-N
                                      R2   N       N      N'R5
                                            I      I      I
                                           R1      R3     R4
                                                 (IA)
        wherein:
        R1, R2, R3, R4, and R5 are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
        optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or RI and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        or R4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[0013] In some embodiments,
        O-Rx is selected from: O-Cl to C8 straight chain or branched chain alkyl; O-C3 to C7
cycloalkyl; O-C4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and O-thioesters.
[0014] In other emboidments,
        R2, R3, R4 and R5 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
and
        RI is selected from:
        H,
        CI to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        CI to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
                                                 -5-

        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
        C4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl,
        C3 to CI1 alylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
        phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
        alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
        pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl,
triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
 [00151 In other embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is selected from a
compound of structural Formula II,
                                                   R8
                                               N      NN
                                       R2'N        N      N'R5
                                           R              R4
                                                   II
        wherein:
        RI, R2, R4, and R5, are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        0-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
        optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or RI and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
                                                  -6-

        or R4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        R8 is selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkynyl; cycloaklyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g.,
alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally
substituted heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and -NRaRb
        wherein Ra and Rb are independently selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted
alkynyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocyclalkyl; alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally
substituted aryl, optionally substituted alkylary, optionally substituted heteroaryl, and optionally
substituted alkylheteroaryl.
 [00161 In some embodiments,
 [00171 O-Rx is selected from: 0-Cl to C8 straight chain or branched chain alkyl; O-C3 to C7
cycloalkyl; O-C4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and O-thioesters.
 [00181 In other embodiments,
        R2, R3, and R4 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
        R5 is selected from H, CH3, lower alkyl, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, NH-alkyl,
N(alkyl)2;and
        RI is selected from:
        H,
        CI to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
                                                  -7-

        C4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl,
        C3 to ClI alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
        phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
        alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
        pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl,
triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
[00191 In some embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is selected from a
compound of structural Formula III,
                                                    R 9 R1
                                                   N      N
                                              RN       N     N
                                               I       I      I
                                              R,       R3    R4
                                                 (III)
        wherein:
        RI, R2, R3, F4, R5, R9, and RIO, are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkylheterocycloalky; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
        optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or RI and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        or R4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[0020] In some embodiments,
                                                 -8-

        O-Rx is selected from:   0-Cl to C8 straight chain or branched chain alkyl; O-C3 to C7
cycloalkyl; O-C4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and 0-thioesters.
[0021] In some embodiments,
        R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or
isopropyl; and RI is selected from:
        H,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        CI to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, N12, NH-alkyl,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
        C4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl,
        C3 to C1I alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
        aryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
        alkylaryl, alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
        heteroaryl, pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl,
diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted,
        alkylheteroaryl, pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, diazolyl,
pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
[00221 In some embodiment, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is selected from a
compound of structural Formula IV,
                                                 -9-

                                              R 12    R 13
                                          R11             R14
                                             N         N
                                      R2,N         N       N
                                                    I      I
                                                   R3      R4
                                                   IV
        wherein:
        wherein R3, R4, R5, R6, R7, R8 and R9 are independently selected from H, methyl,
ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
        and wherein RI and R2, and are independently selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
        optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R1 and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[0023] In one emboidment,
        O-Rx is selected from: 0-Cl to C8 straight chain or branched chain alkyl; O-C3 to C7
cycloalkyl; O-C4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and O-thioesters.
[0024] In another embodiment,
        R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, R7, R8 and R9 are independently selected from H or methyl; and
        RI is selected from:
        H,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, N12, NH-alkyl,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH2, NH-alkyl,
                                                -10-

        C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
        C4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl,
         C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
         phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
         alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
         pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl,
triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
 [0025] In some embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is metformin or a
salt thereof. In another embodiment, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is
metformin hydrochloride.
 [00261 In the compositions and methods disclosed herein, the biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound may comprise an asymmetric center or centers and forms a composition of a racemic
mixture, a diastereoisomeric mixture, a single enantiomer, an enantiomeric diastereomer, a meso
compound, a pure epimer, or a mixture of epimers thereof, .tc. In other embodiments, the
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound comprises one or more double bonds, wherein the
compound is a cis/trans, EiZ mixture or an E or Z geometric isomer thereof. The biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound may be a salt selected from hydrochloride, hydrobromide,
acetate, propionate, butyrate, sulfate, hydrogen sulfate, sulfite, carbonate, hydrogen carbonate,
phosphate, phosphinate, oxalate, hemi-oxalate, malonate, hemi-malonate, fumarate, hemi
fumarate, maleate, hemi-maleate, citrate, hemi-citrate, tartrate, hemi-tartrate, aspartate and
glutamate.
 [00271 In the methods disclosed herein, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound may be
formulated as a composition comprising the components A, B, and C, wherein:
         A is the protonated form of a natural or unnatural amino acid;
         B is the dianion of an acid; and
         C is the protonated form of any the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound.
[00281 In some embodiments,
                                                  -11-

          A is the protonated form of a natural amino acid selected from alanine, aspartic acid,
 asparagine, arginine, glycine, glutamine, glutamic acid lysine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, serine,
threonine, tryptophan, leucine, isoleucine, histidine, methionine, proline, cysteine, and cystine;
 and
          B is the dianion of an acid selected from oxalic, malonic, citric, maleic, fumaric, tartaric,
 aspartic, and glutamic acid.
          C is the protonated form of the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound.
 [00291 In other embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of biguanide or related
 heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin or salt thereof, is about 1 mg to about 2000 mg. In yet
 other embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of metformin or salt thereof is about 10
 mg to about 1500 mg. In further embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of biguanide
 or related heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin or salt thereof, is about 50 mg to about 1000
 mg. In yet further embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of biguanide or related
 heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin or salt thereof, is about 100 mg to about 500 mg.
 [00301 In preferred embodiments, the compositions described herein are adapted to reduce or
 minimize systemic bioavailability of the compound, e.g., minimize the circulating plasma
 concentration of the biguanide compound in the patient and/or reduce the average systemic
 bioavailabilityof the compound, e.g., when compared to a immediate release composition having
 an equivalent amount of the compound.        In some embodiments, the minimized circulating
plasma concentrations is below about 5 pg/mL, 4 [tg/mL, 3 [tg/mL, 2 Rg/mL, 1 pg/mL, 0.5
 pg/mL or 0.24 pg/mL in subjects with normal or impaired renal function. In other embodiments,
 an adapted compound composition has a relative bioavailability of 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%,
20% or 10% compared to an immediate release composition having the same amount of the
compound.
 [00311 In some emboidments, the compositions herein are adapted to elease a therapeutically
effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to one or more regions of the
 intestine.
 [00321 In some embodiments, the compositions are adapted to release in the duodenum,
jejunum, ileum, caecum, colon and/or rectum. In other embodiments, the compositions are
adapted to release in the jejunum, ileum, caecum, colon and/or rectum. In some embodiments,
                                                  -12-

the composition is formulated for release in the lower intestine. In further embodiments, the
composition is formulated for release in the upper intestine. In still further embodiments, the
composition is formulated for release in the upper intestine and lower intestine.
 [0033] In one embodiment, a composition releases a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
 at an onset of about 75 minutes, about 105 to about 135 minutes, about 165 to about 195 minutes
or about 225 to about 255 minutes, or a combination of times thereof following oral
 administration to a subject.
 [00341 In other embodiments, a composition releases a biguanide or related heterocyclic
 compound at an onset of about pH 5.0, about pH 5.5, about pH 6.0, about pH 6.5, about pH 7.0,
 or combination thereof following oral administration to a subject.
 [00351 Also provided herein are compositions comprising biguanide or related heterocyclic
 compounds that further comprise one or more chemosensory receptor ligands is selected from a
 sweet receptor ligand, an umami receptor ligand, a fat receptor ligand, a bile acid receptor ligand,
 a bitter receptor ligand, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the composition
 futher comprises a sweet receptor ligand. In other embodiments, the composition futher
 comprises an umami receptor ligand. In other embodiments, the composition futher comprises a
 sweet receptor ligand and an umami receptor ligand.
 [0036] Sweet receptor ligands include glucose, sucralose, aspartame, Stevioside, Rebaudioside,
 Neotame, acesulfame-K, and saccharin. Umami receptor ligands include glutamate salts,
 glutamines, acetyl glycines, or aspartame. Fat receptor ligands include linoleic acids, oleic acids,
 palmitates, oleoylethanolamides, mixed fatty acid emulsion, omega-3 fatty acids and N
 acylphosphatidylethariolamine (NAPE). Sour receptor ligands include citric acid and
 hydroxycitric acid. Bile acids include deoxycholic acids, taurocholic acids and
 chenodeoxycholic acids. In certain embodiments, the chemosensory receptor ligand is
 nonmetabolized. In certain embodiments, the chemosensory receptor ligand is an agonist. In
 certain embodiments, the chemosensory receptor ligand is an enhancer.
 [00371 Accordingly, also provided herein are compositions comprising biguanide or related
 heterocyclic compounds that further comprise a chemosensory receptor enhancer selected from
 the group consisting of a sweet receptor enhancer, a bitter receptor enhancer, an umami receptor
 enhancer, a fat receptor enhancer, a sour receptor enhancer and a bile acid receptor enhancer. In
                                                -13-

certain embodiments, the chemosensory receptor enhancer is an umami receptor enhancer that
enhances the effect of food on umami receptors in the intestine.
[0038] The compositions described herein can be formulated with an enteric coating. In another
aspect, the compositions described herein can be formulated with a modified release system. In
yet another aspect, the compositions described herein can be formulated with a timed release
system. In a further aspect, the compositions described herein can be formulated with a modified
release and enteric coating. In yet a further aspect, the compositions described herein can be
formulated with a timed release and enteric coating.
[0039] Provided herein is a method of treating certain conditions in a subject comprising
administering a composition comprising a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound described
herein to the subject.
[0040] In one aspect, the method comprises administering at least one biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound selected from any of the compounds described herein to the subject and
wherein the composition is adapted to minimize the systemic bioavailabilty of the compound
and/or release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound to one or more regions of the intestines.
[0041] In preferred embodiments, said administration results in a reduced or minimized systemic
bioavailability of the compound, e.g., a minimized circulating plasma concentration of the
biguanide compound in the patient and/or reduced average systemic bioavailability of the
compound, e.g., when compared to a immediate release composition having an equivalent
amount of the compound.      In some embodiments, the minimized circulating plasma
concentration is below about 5 jig/mL, 4 pg/mL, 3 [tg/mL, 2 tg/mL, 1 tg/mL, 0.5 jig/mL or 0.25
jig/mL in subjects with normal or impaired renal function. In other embodiments, the compound
has 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, or 20% less relative bioavailability compared to an immediate release
composition having the same amount of the compound.
[0042] Provided herein is a method of treating certain conditions by administering a composition
having at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to the lower intestine of a
subject. In another embodiment, the composition comprising at least one biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound is administered to the upper intestine of a subject. In yet another
embodiment, the composition comprising at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic
                                                -14-

compound is administered to the upper intestine and lower intestine of a subject. In certain
instances, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound in the upper intestine and lower
intestine is the same biguanide or related heterocyclic compound. In certain instances, a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound in the upper intestine and lower intestine are
different.
[0043] Provided herein is a method of treating certain conditions by administering a composition
having at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to the duodenum, jejunum,
ileum, caecum, colon and/or rectum. In other embodiments, the composition comprising at least
one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is administered to the duodenum of a subject.
In another embodiment, the composition comprising at least one biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound is administered to the jejunum of a subject. In another embodiment, the
composition comprising at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is administered
to the ileum of a subject. In another embodiment, the composition comprising at least one
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is administered to the caecum of a subject. In
another embodiment, the composition comprising at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound is administered to the colon of a subject. In another embodiment, the composition
comprising at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is administered to the rectum
of a subject. In another embodiment, the composition comprising at least one biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound is administered to the duodenum, j ejunum, ileum, caecum, colon
and/or rectum of a subject.
[00441 Provided herein is a method of treating certain conditions by administering one or more
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions that release at an onset about 75
minutes, 105 to about 135 minutes, about 165 to about 195 minutes, about 225 to about 255
minutes or a combination of times thereof following oral administration to a subject.
[0045] Provided herein is a method of treating certain conditions by administering one or more
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions that have an onset of about 120
minutes, about 180 minutes, about 240 minutes or a combination of times thereof following oral
administration to a subjec. In one embodiment, the composition releases at an onset of about 120
minutes following administration to a subject. In one embodiment, the composition releases at
an onset of about 180 minutes following administration to a subject. In one embodiment, the
                                                -15-

composition releases at an onset of about 240 minutes following administration to a subject. In
one embodiment, the composition releases at an onset of about 120 minutes, about 180 minutes
and about 240 minutes following oral administration to a subject
[00461 In certain embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition(s)
have an onset of release at about pH 5.5, about pH 6.0, about pH 6.5, and/or about pH 7.0.
[00471 In certain embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions
release at an onset of two different pH ranges, wherein said two pH ranges are selected from
about pH 5.0 to about pH 6.0, about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0 and about pH 7.0 to about pH 8.0.
[0048] Provided herein are methods of modulating circulating concentrations of one or more
hormones, including but not limited to GLP-1, GLP-2, GIP, oxyntomodulin, PYY, CCK,
glycentin, insulin, glucagon, ghrelin, amylin, insulin, C-peptide and uroguanylin, by
administering a composition comprising at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
described herein to a subject. Provided herein are methods of modulating the hormonal profile
of lower intestine by administering a composition having at least one biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound to the lower intestine of a subject. In one embodiment, the hormonal
profile is that of GLP-1, oxyntomodulin, and PYY.
[00491 Provided herein are methods of modulating the hormonal profile of upper intestine by
administering a composition having at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to
the upper intestine of a subject. In one embodiment, the hormonal profile is that of GLP-1, GLP
2, oxyntomodulin, PYY, GIP, C-peptide, glucagon, insulin, CCK, or any combination thereof.
[00501 Further provided herein are methods to sensitize lower intestinal chemosensory receptors
by stimulating bitter receptors in the upper intestine with a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound.
[0051] Provided herein are methods of treating certain conditions with the biguanides or related
heterocyclic compound compositions described herein. These conditions include metabolic
syndrome, diabetes type I, diabetes type II, obesity, binge eating, undesired food cravings, food
addiction, a desire to reduce food intake or to lose weight or maintain weight loss, desire to
maintain healthy weight, desire to maintain normal blood glucose metabolism, anorexia, pre
diabetes, glucose intolerance, gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), impaired fasting glycemia
                                                 -16-

(IFG), post-prandial hyperglycemia, accelerated gastric emptying, dumping syndrome, delayed
gastric emptying, dyslipidemia, post-prandial dyslipidemia, hyperlipidemia,
hypertriglyceridemia, post hypertriglyceridemia, insulin resistance, bone loss disorders,
osteopenia, osteoporosis, muscle wasting disease, muscle degenerative disorders, polycystic
ovary syndrome (PCOS), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFL), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), immune disorders of the gut, (e.g., celiac disease), bowel irregularity, irritable bowel
syndrome (IBS), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including, e.g., ulcerative colitis, Crohn's
disease, short bowel syndrome and peripheral neuropathy, e.g., diabetic neuropathy. In some
embodiments, the condition is obesity. In certain embodiments, the condition is diabetes. In
further embodiments, the subject has undergone bariatric surgery. In yet other embodiments,
methods provided herein further include administering a drug for diabetes or obesity.
[0052] In certain embodiments, these conditions include sadness, stress, grief, anxiety, anxiety
disorder (e.g., generalized anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, post
traumatic stress disorder or social anxiety disorder or a mood disorder (e.g., depression, bipolar
disorder, dysthymic disorder and cyclothymic disorder). In certain embodiments, the
compositions described herein may be used for inducing feelings of happiness, well-being or
contentment.
[0053] Additionally, the compositions described herein may be used for the dietary management
of the conditions listed above.
[00541 Also provided herein are methods for treating a disease, disorder or defect in energy
homeostasis in a subject comprising administering a composition described herein. In one
aspect, the composition is adapted to release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound to one or more regions of the intestine.
[00551 Also provided herein are methods for treating overweight in a subject comprising
administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is adapted to
release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to
one or more regions of the intestine.
[0056] Also provided herein are methods for treating obesity in a subject comprising
administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is adapted to
                                                -17-

                                                                                             to
release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
one or more regions of the intestine.
[0057] Also provided herein are methods for reducing food intake in a subject comprising
administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is adapted to
release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to
one or more regions of the intestine.
[0058] Also provided herein are methods for treating type II diabetes in a subject comprising
administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is adapted to
release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to
one or more regions of the intestine.
 [0059] Also provided herein are methods for maintaining healthy body weight in a subject
comprising administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is
adapted to release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound to one or more regions of the intestine.
 [00601 Also provided herein are methods for treating pre-diabetes in a subject comprising
administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is adapted to
release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to
one or more regions of the intestine.
[00611 Also provided herein are methods for increasing GLP-1 concentration in a subject
comprising administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is
adapted to release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound to one or more regions of the intestine.
[00621 Also provided, herein are methods for increasing PYY concentration in a subject
comprising administering a composition described herein. In one aspect, the composition is
adapted to release a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound to one or more regions of the intestine.
[0063] In some embodiments of the methods provided herein, prior to administration of the
composition, the subject is prescreened for endogenous chemosensory receptor levels and types
for use in adjusting the amount of the composition for administration.
                                                -18-

[0064] The methods disclosed herein may also further comprise administration of a DPP-IV
inhibitor, a chemosensory receptor ligand (e.g., a sweet receptor ligand, bitter receptor ligand,
umami receptor ligand, sour receptor ligand, fat receptor ligand or bile acid receptor ligand, or
combination thereof, a chemosensory receptor antagonist (e.g., lactisole), a chemosensory
receptor enhancer), an anti-obesity or anti-diabetes agent.
[0065] Also provided herein are pharmaceutical dosage forms comprising (a) a pH 6.5
enterically coated immediate release component comprising metformin hydrochloride and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; and (b) a pH 6.5 enterically coated extended release
component comprising metformin hydrochloride and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient;
and wherein the combined amount of metformin from both components is less than 400 mg and
wherein the metformin has sub-therapeutic plasma AUC and sub-therapeutic plasma Cmax.
 [00661 In some embodiments, the proportion of metformin hydrochloride in the immediate
release component to the metformin hydrochloride in the delayed release component is about
20/80, 30/70, 35/65, 40/60, 45/55 or 50/50. In other embodiments, the dosage form exhibits a
dissolution release profile of 80-100% amount of metformin hydrochloride after 75 minutes after
oral administration.
 [0067] In some embodiments, the the plasma AUC and plasma Cmax resulting from
administration of the dosage form is 50% or less than the plasma AUC and Cmax resulting from
administration of a single dose of GLUMETZA 500 mg.
 [00681 In some embodiments, the dosage form further comprises a DPP-IV inhibitor in (a), (b)
or both. In other embodiments, the dosage form further comprises an antidiabetic or antiobesity
agent.
 [0069] In some embodiments, the dosage form further comprises (c) an immediate release
component comprising metformin hydrochloride. In some instances, the (c) immediate release
component has a pH 5.0 enteric coating. In some instances, the combined amount of metformin
from components (a)-(c) is less than 600 mg.
 [0070] In some embodiments, the excipient in the extended release component is selected from
the group.consisting of ethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, xanthan gum, sodium alginate, polysorbate-80 and mixtures thereof.
                                                -19-

                                                                    hydrochloride is about 250
[0071] In some embodiments, the combined amount of metformin
mg.
[0072] In some embodiments, the dosage form is a bi-layer tablet. In other embodiments, the
dosage form is a capsule with the two components as encapsulated mini-tablets.
[0073] Also provided herein are pharmaceutical dosage forms comprising (a) a pH 6.5
enterically coated immediate release component comprising metformin hydrochloride and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; and (b) a pH 6.5 enterically coated extended release
component comprising metformin hydrochloride and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient;
and wherein the metformin hydrochloride has reduced average systemic bioavailability.
 [0074] In some embodiments, the average systemic bioavailability is less than the average
systemic bioavailability of an immediate release metformin formulation having an equivalent
amount of metformin. In other embodiments, the average systemic bioavailability is less than
 15%.
 [0075] In some embodiments, the combined amount of metformin hydrochloride is less than 400
mg.
                             INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 [0076] All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or
patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 [0077] FIG. 1 shows the design of the study described in Example 5.
 [0078] FIG. 2 shows the events during the treatment period of the study described in Example 5.
 [0079] FIG. 3 shows the plasma concentration of Metformin (e) and Re-Metformin (m) (x-axis;
ng/mL) as a function of time (y-axis; min) after ingestion at t = -240 and after a meal at t = 0
min.
 [0080] FIG. 4A shows the plasma concentration of PYY (x-axis;pg/mL) as a function of time (y
axis; min) in subjects at baseline (o,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin (e)          or Re
                                                -20-

Metformin (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min. FIG.4B shows the plasma concentration of active
GLP-1(x-axis; GLP-1A pmol/L) as a function of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (c,o)
or after ingestion of either Metformin (e) or Re-Metformin (u) and after a meal at t = 0 min.
FIG. 4C shows the plasma concentration of total GLP-1 (x-axis; GLP-1T pmol/L) as a function
of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (c,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin (.) or
Re-Metformin (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min. For FIGs 4A-4C, percent increase in Abs AUC
is compared to baseline values.
[0081] FIG. 5A shows the plasma concentration of glucose (x-axis;mg/dL) as a function of time
(y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (o,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin (e)      or Re
Metformin (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min. FIG. 5B shows the plasma concentration of insulin
(x-axis;   pmol/L) as a function of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline      (0,o) or after
ingestion of either Metformin (e) or Re-Metformin (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min. For FIGs
5A-5B, percent decrease in Abs AUC is compared to baseline values.
[0082] FIG. 6 is a graph that shows the area uner the curve of PYY (x-axis; log transformed) as a
function of the area under the curve of metformin (ng/mL*min) after ingestion of Metformin (e)
and Re-Metformin (mi).
[0083] FIG. 7A shows the plasma concentration of Metformin (e) and Re-Metformin (M)
(x-axis; ng/mL) as a function of time (y-axis; min) after ingestion at t = -240 and after a meal at
t = 0 min. FIG. 7B shows the plasma concentration of PYY (x-axis;pg/mL) as a function of time
(y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline   (o,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin (o)    or Re
Metformin (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min.
[0084] FIG. 8 is a flow diagram of a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
parallel-group, multicenter study to determine the safety and efficacy of              twice daily
administration of Re-Metformin in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0085] The present invention relates to methods and compositions for treating certain conditions,
for example, metabolic conditions including obesity and diabetes, using a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound or combination of biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds.
Biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s) modulate the synthesis, secretion and/or storage
                                               -21-

of hormones, e.g., GLP-1, GLP-2, oxyntomodulin, PYY, GIP, insulin, C-peptide, glycentin,
glucagon, amylin, ghrelin, uroguanylin and/or CCK that are key regulators of energy and
metabolic processes such as glucose metabolism.
[00861 The present embodiments described herein additionally contemplate targeting
administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds to specific sites throughout the
gut. Enteroendocrine cells, e.g., L cells, K cells, and I cells, that each secrete a different set of
metabolic hormones in response to chemosensory stimulation, occur throughout the length of the
intestine. The concentrations and proportions of these enteroendocrine cell types are different in
the various intestinal segments, and, as noted above, each cell type has a different metabolic
hormone expression profile. Targeted administration of the compositions of the invention to
specific intestinal segments, for example, through the use of formulations designed for release
within one or more desired segments of the intestine, provides an additional level of control over
the effect of such compositions, e.g., in the modulation of hormones involved in metabolism.
[00871 The present embodiments described herein thus include a novel approach to treating
certain conditions by, for example, modulating the secretion of metabolic hormones through
enteroendocrine chemosensory receptor activation using biguanide or related heterocyclic
compounds. The embodiments further include the capability to select combination therapies
tailored to the specific needs of individuals having varying hormone profiles.
[00881 A biguanide or related heterocyclic compound may be used in combination wth one or
more chemosensory receptor ligand to modulate hormone profiles in an individual. Exemplary
chemosensory receptor ligands and their use in modulating hormone profiles is described, e.g.,
in U.S. Application Publication Nos.: 20100267643, 20110065660, and 20120094942; and PCT
Application Publication Nos. W02010123930, W02011133180, W02012054523,
W02012054526, W02012054527, W02012054528, and W02012054530, each of which is
incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
[00891 The embodiments described herein include compositions and methods for modulating the
concentrations of circulating enteroendocrine cell hormones, including, but not limited to, GLP
 1, GLP-2, GIP, oxyntomodulin, PYY, CCK, glycentin, insulin, glucagon, C-peptide, ghrelin,
amylin, uroguanylin, etc., such compositions and methods comprising administering at least one
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to a subject to treat certain conditions. Hormone
                                                 -22-

modulation can be achieved by administering a composition comprising a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound acting on a bitter receptor.
[00901 In particular embodiments, a combination of a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound with one or more agonists of the sweet, umami, bitter, free fatty acid, and bile acid
receptors will simulate the synchronous release of important hormones and neural signals from
the enteroendocrine cells and thus facilitate the assimilation and disposition of meal nutrients. In
additional embodiments, a combination of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound with
one or more agonists of the sweet, umami, bitter, free fatty acid, and bile acid receptors
suppresses ghrelin synthesis, activity or action, or its post-translational modification (Ghrelin
Octonoyl Acyl Transferase activity or GOAT) and/or ghrelin secretion or release.
Biguanides and Related Heterocyclic Compounds
[00911 The compositions and methods disclosed herein relate to biguanides and related
heterocyclic compounds. By way of background, metformin is one of the simplest structural
variants of a class of compounds known as the biguanides. From a structural perspective
metformin resembles a pharmacophore or fragment of a larger biologically active chemical
structure. The parent biguanide structure, as well the structure of metformin phenformin,
buformin, proguanil, imeglimin and its enantiomer are shown below.
                                                -23  -

                                 NH   NH
                            H2N    N    NH2     Biguanide (parent structure)
                                   H
                                 NH   NH
                               N    N    NH2    Metformin
                                    H
                      O          NH
                                    N
                                      NH
                                        NH2     Phenformin (withdrawn from market)
                              H     H
                                 N H NH
                                    N   NH2     Buformin (withdrawn from market)
                               H    H
                              NH NH             Proguanil (an anti-malarial)
                            H H H
                 NN            N     N          Imeglimin (6R) [right] and Enantiomer (65) [left]
              IN jIN    NH2    NIWl N   NH2
                    H          I    H
[0092] Without intending to be limited by theory, while the geometry of metformin and related
open chain biguanides in the context of their interactions with biological targets are not well
understood, the geometries are expected to be limited to the cisoid and transoid forms shown
below.
                NH   NH                    NH  NH2                   NH                   NH
            N     N    NH2              N    N   NHN                    NH
                  H                          H                                         |I
                                                                   HN       NH2        H2N       NH
[0093] Again, not intending to be limited by theory, these two forms represent the low energy
forms of the structure with an inherent energy barrier to the key bond rotation that allows the
cisoid form to interconvert with the transoid form. An X-ray crystal study of metformin dinitrate
shows the "cisoid" structure to be the favored conformer in the solid phase. Fridrichovi M,
Cisafovi I, Nemec I. 1,1-Dimethyl-biguanidium(2+) dinitrate. Acta Crystallogr Sect E Struct
Rep Online. 2012 Jan 1;68(Pt 1):o18-9. Epub 2011 Dec 3. A related set of structures, the
dihydrotriazines, exemplified by the compound known as Imeglimin (currently in late stage
clinical evaluation by Poxel Pharmaceuticals) have the "cisoid" conformation fixed within their
structures as shown below:
                                                   -24-

                                 NH     NH                  N     N                N   N
                             N        N    NH2            N     N   NH2         N    N     NH2
                              I       H
[00941 In an aspect of the disclosure, biguanides and related heterocyclic compounds are
provided, including those comprising elements which rigidify or fix the "cisoid" biguanide
conformation, as illustrated below with the metformin variant of each of the exemplary structural
types. More particularly, the relationship between Metformin series [representive of Formula (I)
herein], the triazole series [representative of Formula (IA) herein], the triazine series
[representative of Formula (II) herein], the dihydrotriazine series [representative of Formula (III)
herein], and the 7-ring series [representative of Formula (IV) herein] is illustrated.
         NH     NH                    N-N                  NkN                 N >N               N   N
                                              NH 2  ~N~N>\H
                                                      N~<>~N                 -                    >N'   NH 2
      N     N       NH2           N      N    NH2       N     N    NH2    N       N   NH 2     'N     H
       |    H                      I     H              I                  I      H
[0095] In one embodiment, compounds of Formula I may be used in connection with the
compositions and methods of the disclosure.
                                                     R 6N         N'R 7
                                                 R2'N         N     N'R 5
                                                      I       I      I
                                                     R1      R3     R4
                                                              I
Wherein:
         R 1, R 2 , R 3 , R 4 , R 5 , R,, and R 7 are independently selected from:
         H, OH,
         O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
         optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., a C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl,
SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH--alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to
C 12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
                                                            -25-

atoms selected from 0, S, or N, inlcuding a C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl
(e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
including a C 3 to CII alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the
heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea);
optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally
substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl,
NH1, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain
     2
alkynyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH,
0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl);
        optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted
naphthyl); optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted); optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R 6 and R7 may join to form a bond, together forming a ring including the nitrogen
atoms to which they are attached;
        or R 1 and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl, imidazolyl,
pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the nitrogen
atoms to which they are attached
 [00961 In certain embodiments, O-Rx may be selected from: 0-Cl to C8 straight chain or
branched chain alkyl; O-C3 to C7 cycloalkyl; O-C4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and
O-thioesters.
 [0097] In other embodiments, optional substitutions may include, e.g., OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl,
NH2, NH-alkyl. Further, an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, etc. may be substitued with an oxygen,
silicon, sulphur, etc. to form a heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, etc.
 [0098] In certain embodiments, each of: R3, R6, and R7, or R3, R4, R5, and R7,or R3, R4, R5,
and R7, or R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7, or R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7 are independently selected
from:
                                                  -26-

        H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
and each of the remaining substitutent groups: R 1 , R2 , R 4, and R 5, or R1 , R 2, and R 6, or R 1 , R 2 ,
and R 6, or R 1 and R 2, or R 1 , respectively, are independently selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0
alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain
or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or
optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH-alkyl); optionally substituted
alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted
with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH
alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C 7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl);
heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from
0, S, or N, including C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the
heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C3 to             CII
alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the
nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea); aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted
phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl); alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally
substituted); alkylheteroaryl;
        or R 1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        or R4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[0099] Exemplary compounds and substiuents of RI, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, and R7 of Formula I
are shown below. However, additional combinations of selections of substituents of RI, R2, R3,
R4, R5, R6, and R7 are envisioned.
                                                     -27-

                                                                                                         Or-O
     NH     NH            NH   NH                      NH      NH                           NH    NH                        NH   NH
         N      NH2   N      N    NH2             Nf        N     NH2         -          N    N'     NH2                 N     N   NH2
H2N                                                                                                                      H     H
         H            |      H                       H      H                            H    H
        OH
 HO                       NHN            NH                H NH           0                 H NH          C-           NH      NHN
                     WN)NH        2    0              'fl,    ),N2           N          N      )NH     2              N
                    H     H                          H      H                           H    H                        H     H    H
     NHNH        H        NH   NH               NH    NH                NH     NH             N      NH           NH   NH
H2N     N     NH2   -N') N        NH2    H 2 N'"'N         NH2       N     N      NH2      N      N    NH2 'N       N     NH2
        H             H     H                      |                 |     H               H      H            H    I
      NH    N             NH   NH            N       NH              NH    N"              N      NH              N    N
     N N       NH2 'N        N    NH2     N      N     NH2         N    N       NH2   ' N     N     NH2       'N-'N       NH2
   H     H            |      I             I     H                      H               H     I                H    H
     NH    N               NH   NH              N      NH              NH    NH            1N       NH         1N      N'
  N     N     NH2       N    N     Nl        N     N       NH2 -N         N      N        N      N    N        N    NN
  H      |              I    HI              II                                  H        H     I     H        H    H     H
     NH    NH          1N      NH            N     N                 N     N'              N      NH             N    NH
                      N      Nk          NN N            "      "N HNJ N                N) N      N      N       N Nk N.
  N    Nl     N
  |     |     |              H I         H             H                H     H                     H
                               NN     N                N     N                  N   N
                            1N N      NN           N       N     N          N     N     N"
                                         H                 H
                                                                 -28-

               NH                   NH     NH                       NH     NH                    NH    NH
         NH
      N     N    NH             N
                                2      NN     NHN
                                               H                             NH2        -      N    N      NH2
      H     H                   H      H                         H     H                       H    H
         NH    NH                    NH    NH                       NH     NH                     NH    NH
--    N     N    NH 2           N       N     NH2                      N     NH 2    '-        N ' N       NH 2
      I     H                     I     H                        |     H                            H
         NH    NH                    NH    NH                       NH     NH                     NH    NH
      N'N N      NH2            N       N     NH2                N     N     NH2               N    N      NH2
      H I                       H       I                        H      I                      H    I
          N     NH                    N     NH                       N      NH                  "N      NH
  --   N     N    NH2             N      N     NH2                N     N     NH2                     N
                                                                                                      NN NH2
       H     H                    H      H                        H     H                       H     H
           NH   NH                    NH     NH                      NH     NH                     NH    NH
        N     N    N                N     N    N        --         N      N    N               N      N      N
        H     H    H                H     H    H                   H      H    H                H     H      H
         NH    NH            NH     NH                 N     NH                  NH     NH         NH    NH
        N   N    NH 2     N     N      NH2             N N      NH2           N              N     N N       N
             SHH                                                                          H           H    I
          NH   NH            NH      NH                N      NH                 NH     NH          NH     NH
      N     N     NH2    N      N       NH 2        N      N    NH 2             N N       N      N     N      N
            H                                              H                        H      H            HI
          NH    NH            NH     NH                 N      NH                 NH     NH           NH     NH
     HN      N
             H
                   NH2
                         6
                         HN'     N      NH2
                                                   6
                                                    HN      N
                                                            H
                                                                 NH2          HN ' N
                                                                                    H
                                                                                            N
                                                                                            H
                                                                                                 HN     N 'N
                                                                                                        H       I
           NH    NH            NH     NH                 N     NH                  NH     NH          NH      NH
      HN      N    NH 2   HN       N      NH2        HN      N     NH2         HN     N     N     HN     N      N
              H        &                                     H                        H     H            H        |
           NH   NH            NH      NH                N      NH                 NH     NH           NH     NH
     HN      N     NH2   HN       N     NH2         HN      N    NH 2         HN    N       N    HN     N       N
     6H                           |                6        H                6H             H   6H|
           NH   NH            NH     NH                 N      NH                 NH     NH           NH     NH
     HN      N     NH2   HN       N     NH2         HN      N    NH2          HN    N'      Nl   HN     N'k     N
             H                                              H
                                            2                                       H       H           H       I
                                                            -29-

                                           NH                 NH   NH                     NH     NH
                 N    NHNH
                  i            N'N
                                  H      HN
                                           NH,
                                                                 N
                                                                        '.-
                                                                      NH,
                                                                                 -,    N      N'fNH   2
    IA N'    N'   NH2                                                       2
                                       NH NH                                                NH NH
                                                              NH   NHNH                              H
          NH    NH                    NHN
                         H2    i   i N IH,~                                      H     NJN)NH2
                  YN      N     NH 2
             HH
                                     N    NH      NH  NH                                 NH    NH
         NH   NH                     a                       NH    NH                             N
K'N-N'NH,              rr             H       2   I        NNNH                  N       N      NH  2
      H                OI                                  HI
                                                                                         NH     NH
                                                   NH NH
        0 NNHNNH
        NH     NH                 H                            NH NHN
       H    H      H   ~    -H                                         H H     Nzl   *
        ~N      NH                    NN                 N         NH~i            ~N            NH
                                      N    kN               'k    11            1IN       'lNNIkNH,
                       K NJ'N)NH HHl H         N2          N     N   NH2            I  H     H
              H      2t~J                                  H     H              N~
                                     NH   NH                                  0         NN
       NH     NH N                                                NHNHN
          HH     ~             J       I                        H                            H
                                                      -30-

0              0               0              10                0               0           10                    0              0
    HN     yNH ,N            yNH HN           yN   HN        yNH HN          y    H NyN'Ny                      NH'NyNH                HN     yNH
       HN      yNH HN           yNH HN          yNH      'N     yNH HN          yNH HN         yNH 'N             yNH    HN       yNH HN         yNH
           NH,               NH,              NH,            NH,           HN,             NH,                 NH,           HNI    I
  0i             06              0               0                0i              0               0                 0             0
         HN~N                 .N>           HN~             HN~N              HN~N                  N      -N                       .N>N HN~N
           HN       N H HN         N H HN          N H        -N     N H HN         N H HN         NH           -N    N H HN          N H HN       N H
              HN            HN               H2N            HN                HN            H2N                H2N              HN            -N
                                                     /0              0 -            0 -              0 /o             00                0
   0    0         0/o                /0     0
       HN         N                     HN~             HN~N              HN~N          .N      1N       -N\                ~N\N            HN~N
        HN     -NH       HNr-N       H HNr-N         H -N      r-N H HNr-N           H HN rNH               -N       N H HN        N H       HN     NH
          HN             H2N               H2N             H2N             HN             HN                 H2N             HN                  N
                                                                                           0 )                0 )       -     0      )       0)
                            0      )         0   )    -     0     >    -     0                         -
        A   0     )    -                -
   HNy            IN NH           HN      y        .        0" HN           0      NH   HNyN , I'N        y      H'N      y                  0HHyN
     HN   yNH         N      NH      HN       NH HN          NH      HN      NH       N     NH        'N       NH       N      NH      HN      NH
          NH,              NH,              NH,             NH2           HNII            NH2                NH2           HNII           'N,
        HN          N                    HN~                HN~N            HN      N                                       N  ~N         HN~N
          HN -NH          HN -N H HN -N H                   -N %r-N H H N-N H HN y-NH                        -N _NH         HN -N H HN -N H
          H2N              H2N              HN             H2N              HN            HN                 HN               HN            -N
                                                        00~
           o              a                 a      0                                 0                 0               0                0
   HN~N               -N~            HN            HN                HN       ~N                    -N                 N                H
                _NHrNN                                        \- HNH 'N H              yN                 >r- NH      ~N        H       H,NH
     HN -NH HN -N H HN                        N H       -N,-NH        HN       N H HN        N H          -N N H HN             N H        HN    NH
      H2N            HN               H2N             HN                 HN \         H2N                HN              HN
                                                                         -31-

    HO          HO           HO           HO              HO           HO              HO            HO            HO
HO          HO           HO           HO)            HO            HO            HO              HO            HO
                        NH    HN      N    HN        NH    HN      NH      N    NIN             NH      NNH         HN       NH
     HN    NH      N
              NH    HN     NH    HN      NH       N     NH    HN     NH     HN     NH       N      NH     HN     NH    HN       NH
       HN
           NH2          NH2           NH2            NH2         HNs            NH2             NH2         HNI              N
 HO          HOO          HO         H          HO                   H              H      OH      HO     OH   HO     OH
         HN     NH     N    NH    HN \r           HN     NH     HN NH                 N        N    NH       N    NH    HN       NH
           HN     NH   HN     NH    HN      NH     -N      NH     HN     NH     HN      NH     -N \_NH       HNf NH       HN       NH
            H2N         H2N          H2 N           H2N            HN           H2N             H2N            HN          ...-N
   HO    OH    HO        HO               HO             HO            HO             HOH           HO     OH       HO      OH
       HN     NH .--      NH    HN'T--          HN      NH    HN NH              N               N   H     N    NH      HNNH
         HN    NH    HN     NH    HN      NH    .- N\_NH        HN     NH     HN      NH    .- N\NH        HN     NH       HNT NH
         H2 N        H2 N          H2N             H2N            HN           H2N            H2N            HN             ..- N
          SOH           OH           OH             OH            OH            OH             OH            OH             OH
          OH           OH            OH    N        OH    N       OH   N       OH      N       OH     N      OH            OH
    HN    NH      N    NH    HN      N"   HN        NH    HN     NH      N     N        N     NH       N     NH    HN      NH
      HN     NH    HN     NH    HN      NH      N     NH    HN      NH     HN     NH       N     NH      HN     NH   HN        NH
          NH 2         NH 2          NH 2           NH 2        HNs            NH 2           NH 2         HN              N,
        OH          OH           OH             OH            OH             OH            OH.            OH          OH
            OH         OH            OH             OH            OH            OH              OH &          OH &         OH
        HN     NH     N    NH    HN      N      HN      NH     HN     NH .. N       N        N     NH       N    NH   HN        NH
          HN    NH    HN     NH    HN     NH      -N     NH     HN     NH     HN      H      -- N    NH     HN     NH   HN        NH
          H2N         H2N           H2N            H2N            HN           H2N            H2N             HN         ..- N
           0H          OH            OH              OH            OH            OH              OH           OH                OH
          OH          OH            OH              OH           OH             OH              OH           OH               OH
    HN    NH .... N    NH    HNr           HN NH           HN_ NH      .--   N            N     NH      N    NH      HN        NH
      HN    NH    HNy NH       HNy NH        --       NH    HN      NH     HN     NH     -N T-NH        HN     NH      HN        NH
      H2N         H2N          H2N             H2N            HN            H2N           H2N            HN             -N
                                                              -32-

HN_        HN_          HN          HN_         HN_         HN_\          HN?_        HN?_          HN?_
                 N    NH    HN      N    HN     NH     HN    NH       N    N      N    NH       N      H HN        NH
  HN    NH
    HN     NH     HN     NH    HN      NH    N     NH    HN     NH     HN     NH     N    NH     HN     NH    HN      NH
        NH2           NH2           NH2         NH2         HN,            NH2         NH2          HN             N
 HN          9N             99                       9              99                      9N       NH H         NH
 HN yNH         NyNH        HN yN        HN yNH       HNyNH          NyN         NyNH          NyNH HN yNH
    HN    NH      HN    NH    HN      NH     N    NH     HN     NH    HN     NH     N    NH     HN     NH    HN      NH
       NH2           NH2           NH2         NH2         HN,            NH2          NH2         HN,            N
 HN    NH       HNN                            NHHN
                                               NHN           NH      N                  H      N     NH   HN      NH
    HN    NH     HN     NH    HN      NH     N    NH    HN      NH    HN     NH     N    NH     HN     NH    HN      NH
       NH2           NH2           NH2         NH2         HNs            NH2          NH2         HN          'N,
  H            H            H             H            H             H           H             H            H
                                                                                 N             N            N
                                          N            N            N
 <                          N
  HI    NH        N          H                                             IH
                                                                            N           NH      N     NH H          N
  HN    NH       N    NH    HN      N    HN     NH     HN    NH       N    N      N    NH       N    NH HN         NH
    HN    NH      HN     NH HN        NH     N    NH HN         NH HN        NH     N    NH     HN      NH HN        NH
        NH2          NH2            NH2         NH2         HNN            NH2         NH2         HNs          'N
   HN    NH       N    NH HN         N          HN      NH HN         NH N         N    NH      NH NH HN            NH
 HN    NH     ,N y   NH    HN yN        HN     NH     HN    NH     ,N     N      N yNH       ,N     NH    HN      NH
    HN    NH     HN     NH    HN      NH     N    NH    HN      NH    HN     NH     N    NH     HN     NH    HN      NH
       NH2           NH2           NH2         NH2         HNs            NH2          NH2         HN          'N,
 HN    NH      N     NH    HN      N    HN     NH    HN     NH      N     N      NNH          NNH         HN     NH
   HN yNH        HNyNH        HN y     H'yNH            HN yNH HN yNH            'N yNH         HN yNH HN yNH
       NH,           NH,           NH,         NH,        HNII            NH,         NH,          HNN           N
                                                              -.33-

HN _         HN            HN           HN         , HN    -       HN             HN             HN           HN
  HN      NH      N    NH     HN      N    HN     NH    HN     NH     N       N        N     NH      N    NH    HN      NH
     H HNH         HN     y NH          NH      HNNH      HN      y N         H      N N        NH    HN     NH     HN     NH
          NH2          NH2            NH2         NH2        HNN              NH2            NH2         HN,            N
 HN      NH      N    NH     HN      N    HN      NH   HN      NH            N            NH        N     NH    HN      NH
     HN    NH      HN     NH    HN      NH     N    NH    HN     NH    HN       NH        N    NH     HN     NH    HN      NH
         NH2          NH2            NH2         NH2         HN              NH2             NH2        HN,             N
S             S7            S -          S            S7           S   -           S    -         S
 HN     NH      N     NH     HN      N    HN     NH    HN     NH             N            NH        N     NH    HN      NH
    HN     NH     HN      NH   HN      NH      N    NH    HN     NH    HN       NH        N    NH    HN      NH    HN     NH
        NH2           NH2            NH2         NH2         HN.             NH2            NH2         HN.             N
  H             H             H            H            H             H               H             H            H
         NH                N            N    -    NH2          N             N                                   N
 HN      NH N         NH HN          NH HN       NH      N    NHHN           NH HN          NH      N     NH HN         NH
    HN     NH HN NH HN                 NH HN       NH     HN NH HN              NH HN         NH     HN NH HN             NH
         HN y   NH Nr         NrNyN            NyN          NyN         H          y
                                                                                  HH             HH       NH H
         NH2           NH2           N            NH2          NH2           N.              NH2          NH2          IN
 0             00                                                      -,            0                           0
 HN     NH      N     NH HN          NHHN        NH     N     NHHN           NH    HN       NH      N    NHHN          NH
   HN      NH     HN    NH HN          NH HN       NH HN         NH HN         NH HN          NH     HN     NH HN         NH
        NH2           NH2          IN            NH2          NH2         - N.,             NH2          NH2           N
 HN yNH         N yNH        3 yNH\ HN yNH
                            HN                          N yNH -- HN yNH            9 yNH
                                                                                   HN               N yNH HN yNH
   HN yNH        HN yNH        HN yNH       HN yNH       HN yNH       HNyNH            HN yNH        HN yNH       HN yNH
        NH2           NH,        -,l             NH2          NH2          .     ~          NH2          NH2
                                                              -.34-

                   NH HN        N     HN     NH HN       NH    N    N       N    NH     N    NH HN        NH
HN     NH     N
   H      NHH       NHNHHNN      NH                  HN     N    N   NH      N    NH     N    NH HN         NH
                      NH HN         NH    N     NH   HN     NH HN      NH      N    NH   HN     NH HN         NH
   HN     NH HN
       NH 2        NH  2        NH 2         NH 2       HNs         NH 2         NH 2       HN            N
HN     NH      N   NH     HN     N,    HN    NH    HN     NH    N    N       N   NH      N    NH    HN     NH
   HN      NH   HN     NH    HN     NH     N    NH    HN    NH   HN    NH      N     NH   HN     NH   HN      NH
       NH 2        NH 2          NH 2        NH2         HNs        NH 2         NH 2       HNI            N
 HN    NH      N   NH     HN     N,    HN    NH    HN     NH 'NH                                    HN     NH
   HN      NH   HN     NH    HN     NH     N    NH    HN    NH   HN    NH      N     NH   HN     NH    HN     NH
       NH2          NH2          NH2         NH2         HNs         NH2          NH2        HNs         IN
        H           H            H            H           H          H            H           H            H
        N           N            N            N           N          N            N           N            N
        /           /            /            /           /     r1/               /      p/           p
HN     NH     N       H HN       N     HN    NHHN         NH    NH                                  HN     NH
   HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     N    NH    HN    NH   HN    NH      N    NH    HN     NH   HN      NH
       NH 2        NH 2          NH 2        NH 2       HNs         NH 2         NH 2       HN,            N
        0           0            0            0           0          0            0           0             0
     r /       r    /       r1///                    P//1                    P/1/                     p
 HN    NH      N    NH    HN     Ny    HN    NH    HN     NH    N    N       N    NH     N    NH    HN     NH
   HN      NH   HN     NH    HN     NH     N    NH    HN    NH   HN    NH      N     NH   HN     NH    HN     NH
       NH2          NH2          NH2         NH2         HNN         NH2         NH2         HNI           N
      ro/
 HN yNH        r/yNH HN yN"
               N                  /    HN yNH / HN yNH    /     NyNl/      ~      /
                                                                          'N yNH'Ny            /H   HNpyNH
   HN yNH       HNyNH        HNy      H'yNH           HN yNH HN yNH            NyNH       HN yNH HN yNH
       NH2          NH 2         NH2         NH2         HN~         NH2         NH2         HN
                                                           -35-

 HN     NH      N    NH    HN      \    HN     NH    HN     NH     N    N        N      NH    N    NH    HN     NH
    HN     NH    HN     NH    HN      NH    N     NH    HN     NH   HN      NH      N     NH   HN     NH    HN      NH
        NH2          NH             H2         NH2         HN           NH2             NH2       HN            N
HNyNH          NyNH        HN yNl      HN yNH        HN yNH       N    K
                                                                       N        NyNH         NyNH        HN yNH
   HN     NH    HN     NH     HN     NH     N    NH    HN     NH   HN      NH       N    NH    HN    NH    HN     NH
       NH2           NH2         NH2          NH2         HNs          NH2            NH2        HNI            N
 HN     NH     N     N     HN     N     HN     NH    HN     NH    N     N       N      NH     N    NH    HN     NH
   HN     NH    HN      NH    HN     NH     N    NH     HN     NH  HN      NH       N     NH   HN     NH    HN     NH
        NH2          NH2          NH2          NH2        HN,           NH2            NH2       HNI            N
        H            H            H            H             H          H
                                  N            NNN
                      N                                                     -/    /    /NH           NH           NH
        N
 HN     NH     N     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     N       H HN      NH     HN       NH    N      H   HN     NH
    HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH  HN      NH     HN      NH   HNyNH        HN     NH
        NH2          NH2          N,           NH2          NH2         N              NH2         NH2          N
        0                   0                  0            0             0             0                         0
HN     NH      N    NH    HN     NH    HN      NH     N      H HN      NH      HN     NH     N      H    HN     NH
   HN     NH    HN     NH     HN     NH   HN     NH    HN     NH   HN     NH     HN      NH   HN     NH    HN     NH
       NH2          NH2          N            NH2           NH2        N              NH2          NH2         N
                           S   S S                         S           SS                           S            S
              1/ 1/~ps                      1/        P/          r/                     S          S            S
HN     NH     N      H   HN      NH    HN     NH     N       H HN      NH     HN      NH     N      H HN       NH
  HN     NH    HN     NH     HN    NH    HN     NH    HN      NH  HN      NH    HN       NH   HN     NH   HN      NH
       NH2          NH2          N            NH2          NH2         N,            NH2          NH2          N
                                                             -36-

      HN/           HN/          HN/          HN/          HN/         HN/            H    /         HN/          HN/
      HN     N y     N     NH    HN NN 'IN            ,N                                                  NH       HN     NH
         HN     NH     HN    NH     HN      NH     HNNH       HN     y N       H      N N        NH     HN      NH    HN     NH
             NH2           NH2          NH2          NH2         HNs           NH2            NH2         HN              N,
    0/            0/           0/           0/           0/           0/            0              0/            0/
   HN     NH       N    N     HNyN        HN      NHHN         NH     N     N       N     NH       N     NH     HN     NH
     HN      NH     HNyNH       HN      NH     N     NH    HN     NH   HN      NH      N      NH    HN      NH    HN      NH
          NH2           NH2          NH2          NH2        HNs            NH2           NH2           HNs            N
 S/           S/            S/           S/           S/           S/            S/            S?            S?
HN     NH     N      NH    HN     NI.HN        NH    HN     NH     N     N       N     NH       N     NH    HN      NH
  HN      NH    HN       H   HNyNH          N     NH    HN     NH   HN      NH      N    NH      HN      NH   HN       NH
       NH2           NH2          NH2          NH2        HNs            NH2           NH2          HN              N,
       S             S            S            S            S            S             S              S             S
     HNyNH        'N      NH   HN      N,    HN     NH. HNyNH            N    N.      N      NH       N    NH    HNyNH
       HN     NH     HN     NH    HN                        HN     NHHN          NH      N       H     HN    NH     HN     NH
           NH2            NH2          NH2          NH2        HNs            NH2            NH2         HN,            N
   HN yNH         NyNH       HN      N.   HNyNH         HN     NH        N      N y       NH       N     NH    HN      NH
     HN     NH     HN     NH    HN      NH     N     NH   HN      NH   HN      NH      N      NH    HN      NH    HN      NH
                 H      NH2    H     NH2    H     NH2    H HN,        H     NH 2            H2    H HN          H      N,
    H     NH2
    N            N             N            N            N            N             N             N             N
 HN     NH       N     NH   HN      N    HN      NH   HN      NH     N     N       N    NH        N     NH   HN      NH
    HN yNH        HN      NH HN N NH          NyNH         N      H HN       NH       N     NH     HN     NH     HN     NH
        NH2            NH2          NH2         NH2         HN             NH2          NH2           HNN     ,      NN
                                                                 -37-

 HN /          HN /         HN /         HN /          HN /         HN /           HN /          HN /        HN /
 HN      NH      N    NH    HN     N,    HN      NH    HN      NH     N     N        N     NH     N     NH   HN     NH
    HN     NH     HN     NH   HN      NH      N     NH    HN     NH    HN      NH       N    NH     HN    NH    HN     NH
         NH 2         NH 2         NH 2          NH2         HN             NH2            NH2        HNs           K,
    0/           0            0/           0/             0/           0/            O/            O/          O/
  HNyNH         IN    NH    HN     N,    HN      NH     HN     NH     N      N .     N     NH      N    NH    HN     NH
     HN     NH     HN    NH    HN      NH     N     NH     HN     NH    HN      NH      N     NH    HN     NH   HN     NH
          NH2         NH2          NH2           NH2          HNN            NH2           NH 2        HNN          N
     S/           S/          S/            S/            S/           S/             S             S           S
   HN     NH      N     NH   HN     N,    HN      NH     HN     NH     N     N        N     NH      N    NH    HN     NH
      HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH      N     NH    HN      NH    HN     NH       N    NH     HN     NH   HN     NH
          NH2          NH2          NH2           NH2         HN             NH2            NH2        HNN         ,N
           S S              S            S             s            S              S             S           S
HN     NH     N     NHNlr        NH    HN     Nf'-          NH    HN      NH    HN      NH    -N      NH   HN     NH
  HN     NH     HN    NH    HN     NH HN         NH     HN     NH    HN      NH    HN      NH    HN     NH    HN     NH
       NH2          NH2         N             NH2           NH2        yN,              NH2          NH2          N
    HN     NH       N    NH   HN      NH    HN     NH       N    NH    HN      NH     HN     NH      N    NH    HN     NH
       HN     NH     HN    NH    HN      NH    HN     NH     HN     NH    HN      NH     HN     NH    HN     NH   HN      NH
           NH2           NH2          N,           NH2           NH2          .Ns            NH2          NH2          N,
     H             H           H            H              H            H             H             H           H
               N N             N            N              N            N             N             N           N
   HN     NH      N    NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     IN      NH   HN      NH     HN     NH    -N      NH   HN     NH
      HN
         y   NH    HN     NH    HN
                                   Ny
                                       NH    HN
                                                 Ny
                                                     NH    HN     NH    HN
                                                                           Y.NH
                                                                           y
                                                                                       HN
                                                                                          Y NH      HN     NH    HN
                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                        NH
          NH2          NH2        yN,            NH2            NH2         .N,            NH2           NH2       yNs
                                                                -38-

        ci              CI            CI              Cl            Cl            CI            CI              Cl                CI
                        NYNH         HN YN           HN YNH       HN      NH      N     N      ,N Y     NH      N           H   HN      NH
      HN YNH
         HN      NH       HN     NH    HN         NH     N     NH    HN      NH     HN     NH       N      NH    HN          NH    HN      NH
              NH2      CI     NH2             NH2           NH2     Cl HNs              NH2             NH2     C1 HN                   Nl
   C                 I                               ci                         ci
      HN       NH       HN     NH                     HN     NH              HN                 HN       NH      H      NH
                          HN          HNNHNH                            HN NH N        NNH                  N      HN         NH HN      NH
               NH2         H2N           HN                 HN             N         HN      H                      ... N>lN         HN
                           H2N               'N    H                     HN              yN\
                                                                                         Y                           -N\               \-N H
                                          H2N                                          HN                                            -N
         CI             Cl                 Ci            CI          Cl                CI         CI             CI                C
   Cl           C                    C            CI           C                 CI           C      'C                        CI
       HN YNH             HN       H                  HN      NH       HN       H               HN YNH           HN          NH
           HN     NH       HN     NH HN          NH       HN     NH     HN      NH HN       NH      HN      NH      HN        NH HN        NH
               NH2          H2N          HN        NH       HN            H           HN     H           Nl               N          HN
                                         2                                HNN             YN \     -      N                             ' -NH
                                           H2 N                                         HN                                              N
                                                                                                                     C!
     cl    i        Ijj       Cl1                              1~~                                            1
      HN       NH        HN       NN                          NH       -HNNH
           HN     NH       HN     NHHN           NH      HN      NH     HN     N...N       NH       HN      NH     H          NHHN         N
               NH 2            rHHNHNH N    2
                                                  N         HN            HN          HN
                                                                                       HN.NH
                                                                                             H        ~                  N           HN     N
                                              CI               C                     CI CI
        HN YNH             HN     NH                    HN     NH       HN     NH                HN       NH       HN         NH
            HN      NH      HNNH          HNNH              HHN          HN     NH HN        NH HNN Nl                HN       NH HN
                    H2       H2N           HNNH                     HN                 HN    NH                        .....N         HN     NH
                                            H2N                                          HN                                           -N
100100]       In other embodiments of compounds of Formula I, R6 and R7 are joined to form a
bond, together forming a ring including the nitrogen atoms to which they are attached, thereby
providing triazole compounds of Formula IA, which compounds may be used in connection with
                                                                     - 39 -

the compositions and methods of the disclosure. Substituent defintions, unless otherwise
 indicated, are the same as provided with reference to Formula I.
                                                   N-N
                                           R211R
                                             R2N       N      N'R
                                                I      I       I
                                                Ri     R3     R4
                                                      IA
 wherein:
         R1 , R 2, R 3, R4, and R5 , are independently selected from:
         H, OH,
         O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
         optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., a C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
 optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl,
 SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to
 C12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
 atoms selected from 0, S, or N, inlcuding a C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkyiheterocycloalkyl
 (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
 including a C3 to CII alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the
heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea);
optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally
substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl,
NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain
alkynyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH,
0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl);
         optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted
naphthyl); optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted); optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
         or R1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
                                                    -40-

         or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
                                                                                                             or
[00101]      In certain embodiments, O-Rx may be selected from: 0-C1 to C8 straight chain
branched chain alkyl; O-C 3 to C7 cycloalkyl; O-C 4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and
O-thioesters.
[001021      In other embodiments, optional substitutions may include, e.g., OH, O-alkyl, SH, S
alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl. Further, an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, etc. may be substitued with an oxygen,
silicon, sulphur, etc. to form a heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, etc.
[00103]      In certain embodiments, each of: R 3 , or R 3, and R 4, ,or R 3, R 4, and R5, , or R 2 , R 3 , R 4 ,
and R 5 are independently selected from:
         H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
         and each of the remaining substitutent groups: R 1, R 2, R 4, and R5 , or R1 , R 2, and R 5, or R1
and R 2 , or R 1 and R 2, or R 1, respectively, are independently selected from:
         H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0
alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NI- 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C 1 to C12 straight chain
or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or
optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH-alkyl); optionally substituted
alkynyl (e.g., C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted
with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH
alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl);
heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from
0, S, or N, including C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the
heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C3 to C1 I
alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the
nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea); aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted
phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl); alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally
substituted); alkylheteroaryl;
                                                     -41-

        or R 1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        or R 4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[001041      Exemplary compounds and substituents of R 1 , R 2, R 3, R4, and R5, of Formula IA are
shown below. However, additional combinations of selections of substituents of R 1 , R2, R 3, R4 ,
and R 5 are envisioned.
                                                                                   0
        N-N              N-N                    N-                      N-N                      N-N
    H2N    N   NH 2   N             2        N     N  NH2             N    N    NH 2           N    N   NH2
           H           I    H                 H    H                  H    H                   H    H
           OH
     HO                N-                       N-N         0           N            CI~a
         H          N           NH2           N N''NH    2           N         NH 2 C          N      N
                    H     H                   H    H                 H    H                  H   H    H
        N-N              N-N               N-N             N-N            N-N             N-N
    H2N   N    NH 2   N     N    NH2   H2N  N    NH2     N   N  NH2     N    N    N     N   N   NH2
          H           H     H               |            I   H          H    H    H     H
               N-N               N-N           N-N            N-N             N-N
             N  N    N       N    NN  NH2   N    N   N      N  N    N       N    N   N
             H       H        |             II       H         HI                I
                                                      -42-

         N-N                               N-N                            N--N                          N-N
     N       N      NH 2              N      N      NH2               N     N    NH2                N       N      NH2
     H       H                        H      H                        H     H                       H       H
          N-N                              N-N                            N-N                            N-N
      N       N     NH2               N       N     NH2               N      N   N                                 NH 2
              H                        |      H                              H                       |       H
          N-N                              N-N                            N-N                            N-N
      N       N     NH2       --     N''N'          NH2    -'         N      N   NH 2                N       N     NH 2
      H      I                        H      I                        H     I                        H      I
            N-NH                            N-N                           N-N                             N-N
                                        N)1 N        N      -    -"    N IlN       N                  N       N
  ,-'N )       NlkN
      H        H     H                  H      H     H                 H      H    H                  H       H     H
            N-N                              N-N                           N-N                             N-N
                N1 N-N  N-                      N    N                  N      N   N                   N    l N     N
        |      H     H                   |      H    H                  |      H   H                   I       H    H
             N-N                             N-N                            N-N                            N-N
    ,-N         N     N        '-"       N      N     N                 N l N       N                   Ni1 N        N
        H       H     |                   H     H     I                 H      H     |                  H      H     |
             N-N                             N-N                            N-N                             N-N
     ,-N        Nil   N            -      N-'N        N-                 N1 N       N                   Nl N         N
          I     H I                        I    H      |                       H    I                    I     H I
          N-N                      N-N                     N-N                    N-N                      N-N
      N       N     NH2        NlH N                           N    N         N        N
                                                                                       1    N          N      N     NH2
      CyH           N2N2<yH                                         H      CyH              |                 H
             N-N                         N-N                    N-N                      N-N                  N-N
       N        N     NH2                         N           N    N      N       HN      N   NH2       HN       N     NH2
                                   NH             H                H|            6        H    _
       N--N                 N-N                      N-N                  N-N                 N-N                 N--N
 HN         N     N      HN    N      N          HN      N  NH 2    HN        N   NH 2     HN   N   N         HN     N    N
6           H     H    6     H                           H     &                                H   H                HI
      N-N                    N-N                     N-N                   N-N                    N-N
HN          N     NH2    HN      N     NH2      HN       N N          HN       N   N          HN    N       NH2
                         HN-N                            H           bH                                 HH       N      N
                              HN       N       NH 2                        HN     N      N                         H
                                                                                  H      H
                                                                   -43-

                          N--N                                               N-N
                         N N     NH2                 N-NH2                 N    N  NH2
   N N     NH      ~H        H                       H    NH       ,
                                                                         H
                                                                           H    H
 H    HH
                                                                             N-N
    N-N                   N--N
             N H   NH 2    N    NH2                       N   NH 2         N    N  NH2
        ~I       H                   2K) I
      N-NH N,           NN--NH
                         N-                          NN                      N--NN N H
                                                                             N--N
                                2
     N   NH 2HH       HINIH                                            t
 H   I                                              HN   I                     IH
                         N-N                                                 N--N
   N-N                                                 N-N                   N-N
  K~NANH                    Hj    H        N           NNN~                H    H  H
 H     H   H                                         H     H   H
              NNN-NN                N                   N-N                 N-NN
                                 H          -4H4 -        H    H                H  H
~IN-NN                   NN-N                   N            N               NN~
           N                                         N~NN
       HIJ      K)N H        HI                      NNN             N     H    HI
                                                                           NN
      N
     NQL                    H                                               NH~
                                           -44    -

        o/oa                                  /o           o-               /o              oo                              /o
$              0       )0                   0              0              0                 0             0               0
     HN Y N \        N      N\   HN yN           HN     N         N     N         N      N     HN      N         N      N     HN        N
                       HNYN            N-N         HN      N         N     N       HNY N          HN      N       HNY N            N       N
        HNN
            NH2             NH2            NH2         HNN              NH2            HNI             N IN                         "N"
          HN )N            N -N        HN <N         HN      N         N              .. N -N       HN             .. N .N        HN
            HN      N        NH- N
                            HN-        -NN             HN z N N \-N    HN     HNNN ..--NN  \-N        HN yN N          HN \--NN     '..N      N
                                                                                                                                              N
            H2N            H2N            H2N           HN               HN              H2N              N              .N            .N
       0         0              0                    0          0                    0              o            0             0 o
       HNN              N.<         HN~<            HN\<N            ~                 NN          HN              N<N              HN
                    HN -N HN N ...--           N N HN -N           NHN               .- N N         HN     N         N     N         -N       N
         H    N                                                                                                       NH -N HN\            '\   N H HN-N\
          H2N           H2N            H2N             HN              HN              H2N           ..- N            .-N                  N
  ,-       0        -0                    0-           0     '5        0     r5         0    ~-0           ~
           0      N0             N        0    N                0N                      0 0N0                         0
   HN      N        N     N     HN        N    HN      N                                      HN    N HN N N N               HN        N
      HN     N       HNYN           ,N      N     HN      N       HN     N         N       NH   HN     -N        HN     -N       N       -N
           NH2            NH2             NH2        HNN             HNI                NH2          N NN
         HN_ N           N           HN             HN             -N                  N          HN                N           HN
             HN        NHN      N        .N                                N                 -N N   HN                   -N   H-N
           H2N            H2N           H2N            HN              HN               H2N           -N               -N
       HN 0      ..     N 0     H       N0         HN   0     ...    N        ..-   N 00          HN        ...    N           H
   HN      N        N     N                 HN                                  N.N HN               _N N N N HN NN             . .. N N
      HN    N       HN-          -~N              HNN             HNN             NN            HNN             N         HN     -N
       H2N           H2N           H2N             HN              HN              H2N             -N            -N                -N
                                                                   -45-

    HO             HO            HO              HO            HO             HO             HO            HO            HO
HO           HO              HO              HO           HO              HO              HO           HO            HO
     HN     N\        N     N       HN       N    HN     N          N     N      N      N      N      N        N    N     HN        N
        HN     N       HN      N         NyN         HNyN              NyN        HN       HNYN                 HN
                                                                                                                 NYN            NyN
            NH2             NH2              NH2       HNl                NH2         HNl             N             N               N
 HO     O      HO      O      HO      O       HO            HOO             HO             HO            HOO          HOO
          HN>rN           N.N            HNN          HN>-N            -N> N        -N      N     IN> N          -N>N           HN>_N
            HN             N            HN            HN               -- NN                                                    HN
               NN         H        N     .        N        )z --               N      .- NN N        HN     N      HNN          .- N
            H2N            H2N              H2N          HN                HN            H2N           -N           .- N           .-- N
                                                      OH      HO       OH     HO      OH     HO HO        HO      OH      HO        OH
   HO    OH     HO       OH    HO       OH       HO
       HN     N         N    N        HN-N            NN               N    -        N N           N                N              N
         HN     N       HN     N            N>N       HN               HNN           'N.>N      N HN           N>     N N         .NN
          H2N            H2N             H2N            HN               HN            H2N          .N             -N                -N
           OH              OH       -OH           -OH                    OH             OH           OH            OH              OH
           OH              OH               OH          OH                 H           OH            OH            OH              OH
    HN     N         N     N     HN         N    HN     N          N     N     N       N     HN      N        N    N     HN        N
       HN     N       HNN-N N                 N     HN    N         HN
                                                                     NN          N             HNNN                                    N
           NH2            NH2               NH 2      HNl              HNI             NH 2         N              N               N
        OH             OH             OH             OH              OH            OH            OH             OH           OH
            OH             OH               OH          OH               OH             OH            OH            OH,            OH
         HN      \       N            HN             HN               -N            -N           HN              ~-N         HN
          HN>N            HNN          ... NN         HNN               HN'NN            NN         H     N       HNyN        .N         N
           H2N            H 2N             H2N          HN               HN            H2N           .- N            -N          .- N
            OH     '       OH    ''         OH /         OH      '        OH   '         OH            OH   '       OH                 OH
           OH             OH               OH           OH               OH             OH            OH           OH                OH
    HN           .--N            HN               HN          .- N             -N             HN           .HN
      HN     NHN                  .. N H N         HNN             HN           '-N       N     HN            H
                                                                                                              HN      N     .. N        N
           xN           yN              yN            y~N              >yN           'N            yN            y~N               yN
       H2N           H2N             H2N             HN              HN           H2 N           -N             -N             .N
                                                                    -46-

              HN?         HN? \       HN?          HN?        HN?        HN?           HN(9       HN(
HN
  HN Y-N \      NY-N        HN      N    HN     N     N    N     N    N    HN     N       N    N     HN      N
                 HNYN            N    N     HN    N      NyN      HNyN        HN-N         HNyN          NyN
     HNYN
          NH2         NH2           NH2       HN,          NH2       HNI         IN,        'N,           -N"
 HN      N      N YN         N     N    HN     N      N    N     N    N                       N     HN      N
     HNYN        HNYN         IN      N    HNYN       'N yNH      HNYN       HNYN         HN yNH      IN       N
         NH2         NH 2          NH2        HNs         NH 2      HNN         IN            N             N
        y           y            y.{           y~
 HN yN         N yN        HN      HNHN        N     N    N N        N    HN     N       N    N     HN      N
     HN    NH    HN       H     N    N     HN-N        H     NH   HN-N       HN-N         HNyNH         NyN
         NH2        NH2            NH2        HN         HNH2       HNI        -IN            N             N
   H           H            H                        H
                                                     H          H          H             H          NH
   NNHN N NHN        N      H                 N
                                         HNHN-N            N       N
                                                                  HN-N      NHN-NN NHN           NH     N
                                                                                                        N      N
                    NH     HN-N                        HN-N
         NH 2        NH 2          NH 2       HN         HNH2       HN            N          HN             N
  HN     N     N      HNHN         HN     N    N      N         N     N   HN      H      N    N      HN     N
     HNYN        HN    N        N     N    HN     N             HN   YN      HN      N    HN     N     HN      N
         NH 2        NH2           NH2        HNs          NH2      HN         'N,           HN             N
 HN      N     N    N      HN           NH     N     N    N     N     N   H          N   N    N     HN      N
    HN -N       HN     N          N        HNHN         NyNH      HNyN       HNHN         HH-N         HNyN
        NH2         NH2           NH 2       HN          HNH         NH2         N            N,         I,
                                                          -47-

HN,          HN   -        HN             HN ,         HN,          HN ,            HN           HN          HN ,
  HNy N         NyN           HN      N     HN     N       N      N            N      HN     N       N   N     HN      N
                                   NyN         HNyN .NN                   HNyN           HNyN         HNyN          N     NH
    HNyN          HNyN
          NH2         NH2             NH2         HNI            NH2         HN,             N           N             N
 HN      N      N    N       HN      N     HN      N       N    NN            N       HN     N      N    N     HN      N
    HN      N    HNYN             NYN         HN             NN            N     -N     HN      N    HNyN           NyN
         NH2         NH2             NH2         HNs            NH2         HN,              N           N             N
 HN      N      N    N      HN       N     HN      N      N    N       N      N      HN     N       N   N     HN       N
    HN     N     HN      N        N       H HN       N       N     NH    HN       N     HN-N         HN-N           N    N
       y            yN                           y         -    r           y                             N~~        y
         NH2         NH2             NH2         HNs           NH2                         INH
                                                                                            N           N              N
  H            H              H              H           H             H               H            H           H
         N        N     H2                   N         NH2      N              N             N                  N
  HNyN          N    N        HN     N      HN     N       N    N     HN       N      HN     NHN                       N
    HNYN          HN-N           HN-N          HN-N         HN-N          HN-N           HNYN         HN-N         HN-N
         NH2         NH2             N             NH2          NH2           N              NH2         NH2           N
         0    0              0\             0                         0               0                        0,
 HN     N       N    N      HN       N     HN      N     N     N     HN       N      HN     N       N   N     HN      N
    HN     N     HN      NH     HN     -N     HN     N     HN     N      HN    -N       HN    -N     HN   -N      HN    -N
        NH2          NH2            N,            NH2          NH2            N,            NH2         NH2           N,
     HN           N    \N HN\       N      H N N         N     N 8\HN -\      N      HN                        S
                                                                                                              HN
    7-                          7
                                Y-            7-             -           7\
                                                                         y7                       " N\          ~NN
    HN-N        HN-N           HN-N           HN-N         HN-N          HNNN           HN-N         HN-N        HN-N
        NH,         NH2            IN,            NH2          NH,        -I,               NH2         NH2         IN,
                                                               -48-

            N    N      HN     N    HN     N    N    N      N HNN         HN      N          N    HN H N
HN     N
                          N    HN           N    N     N      N            N       HN             HN     N
  HN     N      N
       NH2       NH2           NH2       HN-         NH2        HN,             INN
HN     -N   N     N      HN            HN -N
                                           N    NN    -N      N   -N        HN -N       N    -N        N -N
   HN yN     HN y    N      NyN        HN     N    N     N    HN      N      HN      N   HN     N      N    N
    P2         02          P2          PO\       P\                 \        P\         P\          P\
       NH2        NH2          NH2        HN           NH2      HN                N           N          NN
 HN    N     N    N      HN     N    HN     N    N     N     N     N       HN     N     N     N    HN     N
    HN   -N   HN      N      N    N     HN   -N     N -N      HN     -N       HN    -N   HNyN           N   N
       NH2        NH2           NH2       HNN          NH2       HN         N              'NNN,*
        H         H             H           H          H           H               H          H           H
                                                                                                          N
                                                                          HN HN N       N     N   N
                                     HNHNN N    N      N     NHN NN
       N    N     N      HN     N
 HN                     N
    HN N      HN
       NH 2       NH 2          NH2       HNN          NH 2      HNN               N   N      NN N      ANN
                                N    HN     N   N      N                        N
 HN    N    N     N      HN
   HNN          NN       H N      N     HN   N      N N       N                      N   HN     N     IN   N
       NH2        NH 2         NH 2       HNN          NH 2     HN                NN          N           N
        0         0             0           0          0           000                                    0
        /          /l      P/1//                     1/o     p1                    o/   r/ o        p1/
 HN    N     N    N      HN     N    HN     N    N     N     N     N       HN     N     N     N    HN     N
    HN    N   HN      N HN        N     HNN      N        N   HN       Ny     NN    N    HN     N HN        N
       NH2        NH2           NH2       HNN          NH2       HNN            ANN         ANN         ANN
                                                       -49-

 HN     N      N     N    HN     N     HN      N     N    N        N     N    HN      N      N      N      HN     N
    HNyN        HNyN           NyN        HNN           NN                    HNH N          N      N      HN     N
       NH2           NH2         NH2         HNII         NH2          HNII        'N,           'N,           'N,
HN     N      N     N    HN      N     HN     -N         N        N     N    HN     -N         HN -H             N
   HNyN         HNyN          NNy                N       N      HNyN                          HNyN            NyN
      NH 2          NH2          NH2        HN,          NH2          HN,            N             N             N
   N S-\
   H   NH
        NON2      S-\
                    NHNOH
                       2       S-\
                                 NH
                                  N2        S-\
                                            HNs
                                            OHN        6S-\
                                                          NH
                                                           NON2       S-\
                                                                      HNNOH   ~    S-\
                                                                                     NNON       S-\NN      H     NN
                                                                                                               S-\
 HN    N       N    N     HN     N     HN     N      N    N       N     N     HN     N       N     N      HN      N
       NH 2         NH,          NH 2        HN,          NH2         HNI          IN"          'N"             IN,
        H            H           H             H           H             H
                 N N              N            N           N             N
                                                                                        NH             NH            NH
 HN    N       N    N     HN     N     HN     N      N    N      HN     N     HN     N       N     N      HN      N
   HN    -N     HN     N     HN     N     HN      N   HN    -N      HN    -N     HN    -N     HN      -N     HN     -N
       NH2          NH2          N            NH2         NH2           N            NH2           NH2            N
                                                                                                    -
                                               0          00
       0
      1/
                    0
                   1/      ;/
                                 0
                                               /         1/            1/l               0-             0-            0
HN    N       N     N    HN      N     HN     N     N    N       HN    N     HN      N      N      N      HN     N
   HN     N    HN      N    HN     N     HN      N    HN   -N      HN      N    HN    -N     HN        N    HN       N
      NH2          NH2          N             NH2        NH2           N            NH2           NH2         'N,
                          S    SS                        S             SS                             S             S
           1/       /           /          1/            /              /              S              S9            S
HN    N       N    N     HN     N     HN     N      N    N      HN     N     HN     N       N     N      HN      N
  HN     N     HNYN        HN-N          HNYN        HNyN         HNYN         HNYN          HNYN           HNYN
      NH2          NH2          N,           NH2 .       NH2           N,           NH2           NH2            N,
                                                           -50-

      HN/          HN/           HN/          HN/          HN/          HN/           HN/         HN/          HN/
      HN     N             N      HNN         HN     N            N            N      HN     N            N    HN     N
                       HN     N       NN         HN-N          N    N      HN-N          HN    N      HNyN         NyN
         HN-N
             NH2           NH2           NH2       HN,            NH2         HN,            N            N           N
    0             0/            0/          0/           0/           0/            0/           0/          0/
   HN     N       N     N     HN      N    HN     N       N    N      NHN                                          N
      HN-N         HNYN            NfN       HN     N                  HN-N           HN-N        HNN           NyN
          NH2           NH2           NH2       HN,            NH2        HN,             N            N           N
 S/           S/            S/           S/           S/           S/           S/            S?           S
HN     N      N      N     HN      N    HN     N      N     N      N     N     HN      N      N     N    HN     N
   HNyN         HNyN          ,NyN        HN      N      NyN        HN      N     HN      N    HNyN          NyN
       NH2           NH2           NH2       HN.N           NH2        HN              N            N           N
       S             S             S           S            S            S             S            S           S
     HN     N       N     N      HN    N     HN     N       N   N        N    N      HN     N       N    N    HN     N
        HN-N         HNyN            N    N    HNYN          HNyN         HNYN         HNyN          HN-N          NyN
            NH2           NH2          NH2        HNs          HNs          HN,             N            N           N
   HN     N     ,N      N     HNyN         HN     N      N        NNN              HN     N      N     N    HN     N
                          Y- Y \              Y-         NY N\      , Y \             Y-1 \       Y-    \ HNY- \
      HN    N      HNyN            Ny          N                 NN HNyN             HNyN         HNN           NyN
                                H     NH2   H   HN       H     NH2    H   HN        H     N     H      N     H     N
    H     NH2    H      NH2
    N            N              N           N            N            N             N           N            N
 HN      N       N NN  N       N                              N     N      N      HN     N      N        N HN     N
    HNYN          HNYN         'IN     N    HNfN           NfN        HNyN          HN      N    HN         N      N
         NH2           NH2           NH2       HNs            NH2        HNI             N            N          N
                                                               -51-

  HN/          HN/           HN/          HN/            HN/          HN/           HN/           HN/            HN/
  HNYN\         N 7 N        H      H      NN              N    N       N    N      HN      N        N     N     HN     N
    HN      N     HN      N         NN       HN      N                     N   N      HN y N
         HNY              Nk.                     N
                                                  y'I NH                                              HN y    N      NyN
         NH2           N  N
                          H          NH2        HNs              NH2        HNs             N                         IN
   0/            0/            O/           O/              0/           0/           0/              0/          0/
  HN     N       N     N      HN      N    HN      N   ~N        N   ~N       N      HN      N       N      N    HN      N
    HN N           HN yN     H~ NN           Hy N             N N          NN
                                                                           Hy
                                                                            _N\         HN      N      HNyN            _N
         NH2           NH2            NH2        HN       ~      NH2        HN.     ~       NN     ~      NN             N
    S/            S/            S/           S/             S/           S/              S             S
                     y~.N                          y            y            y              y             yN          N{
-  HN      N      N     N      HN     N     HN      N       N     N      N     N     HN       N       N     N     HN     N
      HN-N s      s HNyN        s NyN s HNyN s                 N    N s HN       N       HN     N     s HN     N    s N    N
          NH2           NH2           NH2         HN,             NH2        HN,              N             N            N
HN     N       N     N     HN      N      HN     yN           N     HN     N      HN      N       N      N     HN     N
  HN-N          HN     N      HNN          HNN            HNN          HN-N          HN-N          HNN           HNN
       NH 2          NH 2           N           NH2            NH2          N             NH2            NH2          N
       05            05            05           0             0            0              0              05           0
    HN      N       N     N     HN      N    HN       N       N     N    HN     N       HN     N        N     N     HN     N
       HN-N          HN-N          HN-N         HN-N           HNN          HN-N           HNN            HN.N        HN-N
            NH2           NH2    I     N,             NH2           NH2         N              NH2            NH2         N
     H             H             H            H              H            H             H              H          -H.
               N N               N            N              N            NNNN
   HNyN             _NyN\      HNyN\ HN             N       N     N     HN    yN      H       N       N     N     HN     N
      HN    -N      HN    -N      HN     N     HN      N     HN      N    HN      N      HN     N       HN     N     HN     N
          NH2           NH2          IN,            NH2           NH2          N              NH2           NH2          NN
                                                                  -52-

 HN YN \        IN     YN \HN            Y-N \HN       Y-N \    N Y      N      \ NY    N \HN     Y-N \HN         Y-N \HN     Y N\
    HN     -N        HNYN         'IN yN          HN    -N      'N      yN       HN    yN       HN    -N                      N y N
         N H ,            N H2 cl         NH2         H NN        c  N H 2     cl    HN N            N I        HN        ~rN
                                \I               HN      N
                                                                                              HN
                                                                                                 N'-
                                                                                                       N     HN
                                                                                                                                       C
          HN                                    H
                         N                                       HN~
                                                    y~ \\N~                                      YN
    HN YN                         HN                HN     N         i            HNN            HN    -N      H\           HN
                                                        y          HN      N                                          N         N
                          HN          yN
                                    F HNHN                                                            N                      HN
             2
                       H2N              >yN               -rHN                     HNyN                         -N\              'yN
                                     H2N                                             HN                                        -N
    CI              CI                CI           Cl            Cr                           CI       CIlC
cl             c                  lCl        C            C                          l     C  c                Cl           CI
   HN   ~N           HN   _                      HNyN\            HN      NHN                          N     HN
     HNY                       N HN\                 HN   -N                      HN\    N         N                         HN     N
                                        f__NHN                      HN                            HN-N         HN                   N~
                   N2 H2N            HNyN          N                 HN,            HNY     N           N        -N\          H
                                                                                      HN                              clN
                               cI     H2N
   HN<          N                                HN      N                                    HN      N
          -\         HN -                           Y      HN            NN              HN                        ;
     HN'rN                   NHN       f_N HN               N          <N\               HN              -N HN H        \   HN \N
          NH2           H2N          HN        ~       HNr             '           H >N
                                                                                                                 -NN
                                                                                                                              HN \
                                                                                                                                  yNN
                           H             yN                          HN             H       N
                             2
                                     H2N                                             HN
    HNN                H                           HN              HN                           HN-     N        N
       HN      N                   N HN               HN      N              \     HN              HN .N             '\       HN
                  y      HN                  N       ~       N       HN                    N                     H        N
                2          >N
                         H2N
                                       HN
                                           \yN
                                                 ~       HN
                                                                       HN   r
                                                                                     HN
                                                                                         /,N
                                                                                                      ,N
                                                                                                                  -N\
                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                H
                                       H2N                                             HN r
                                                                 -53-

                                                                              be used in connection
[00105]     In other embodiments, triazine compounds of Formula II may
with the compositions and methods of the disclosure. Substituent definitions, unless otherwise
indicated, are the same as provided with reference to Formula I.
                                                   R8
                                                N "N
                                         R2N       N        N'R5
                                                    II
wherein:
        R1 , R 2, R 4, and R5, are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., a C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl,
SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to
C 12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including a C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl
(e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
including a C3 to C1I alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the
heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea);
optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally
substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl,
NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain
alkynyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH,
O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl);
        optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted
naphthyl); optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
                                                  -54-

thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted); optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
         or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
         R8 is selected from:
         H; optionally substituted alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl
optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0
alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); cycloaklyl (e.g., C3 to C 7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g.,
C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two
hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl);
alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected
from 0, S, or N, including C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl and including wherein when N is
present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or
urea); optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted
naphthyl); optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted); optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and -NRaRb
         wherein Ra and Rb are independently selected from:
         H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl,
SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkenyl (C1 to C12 straight chain or branched
chain alkenyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with
OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkynyl (C1 to C12 straight
chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally
substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7
cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocyclalkyl (e.g., where the
heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C2 to C6
                                                   -55-

heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two
hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including
wherein when N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an
amide, carbamate or urea); optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl,
substituted naphthyl), optionally substituted alkylary (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl), optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted), and optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl.
[00106]     In certain embodiments, O-Rx may be selected from: 0-Ci to C8 straight chain or
branched chain alkyl; O-C 3 to C7 cycloalkyl; O-C 4 to Cs alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and
0-thioesters.
[001071     In other embodiments, optional substitutions may include, e.g., OH, O-alkyl, SH, S
alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl. Further, an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, etc. may be substitued with an oxygen,
silicon, sulphur, etc. to form a heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, etc.
[00108]     In certain embodiments, R8 may be selected from H; lower alkyl, including CH 3 ;
NI- 2; NH-alkyl, N(alkyl) 2, including NHCH 3, N(CH 3)2. In certain aspects, in combination with
these particular selections of R8 if desired, each of R 1, R2, R4, and Rs, or R2, R4 and Rs, or R4 and
Rs, or R5 may be independent selected from:
        H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
and each of the remaining substitutent groups: R1 or R1 and R2, or R1,R2, and Rs, respectively,
are independently selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., C 1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0
alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C 1 to C12 straight chain
or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or
optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted
alkynyl (e.g., C 1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted
with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH
alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl);
heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from
0, S, or N, including C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the
                                                 -56-

heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C3 to CII
alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the
nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea); aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted
phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl); alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally
substituted); alkylheteroaryl;
        or R, and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        or R 4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[00109]     Exemplary compounds and substiuents of Ri, R2, R 4, R5, and R8 of Formula II are
shown below. However, additional combinations of selections of substituents of R1, R2, R4, Rs,
and R8 are envisioned.
                       N   N               N   N
                                               NNN                  NI
                                                                    N"    N     O-        N   N
    H2N   N    NH2   N   N   NH2        N    N   NH2             N     N    NH2         N   N   NH2
                                        H                        H                      H
          OH
    HO0              N-kN                  N *-'N      0:          N'    N        c     N-N
                   N   N   NH 2  0      N    N   NH2            N     N    NH 2       NNN
                   H                     H                      H                     H       H
                                                 -57-

                     NH,              NH,           NH,               NH,                   N
     NH,
                  Wk N             N" N          N ilN              N" N                   IN
  N-   -N
  H,       H   N        N' NH,  N      N   NH                                         HN H    ~ NN
  H 2 N N H2   H                H         H                                  H         H         H
                  1 NH               N~            N1      1NN~
    NH
'iN   "NAN~  ~NANN             W'ANjH
                                 I        IH
                                                      N     NH  'il  N N       NH2 'ilN
                                                                                      H
                                                                                             N   N
                                                                                                 H
          H
  N'LN            NkN                N)"N          N'   'N      ~N
           J JNH2   'N N N .IN     N            N)'N   Nll               Nj,    11
                      I    H       I        H                                 I         II
                                              -58-

        NH 2                     NH2                     NH2                NH2
    N "N                       N    N                 N"    N            N    N
   N    N     NH 2          N    N     NH2         N     N    NH 2       kNN      NH 2
 H                          H                      HH                 H
 H      NH 2                H     NH2                    NH 2               NH 2
     N     N                   N    N                 N"    N            N'    N
 N      N     NH2           N     N    NH 2        N     N    NH 2    N     N     NH2
        NH 2                      NH2                    NH 2               NH 2
     N     N                   N"   N                 N     N            Nk    N
 N      N NN                N     N NN             N     N"   N       N     N "N
 H      NH 2              H       NH 2    H              NHH                NH 2
     N      N                  N     N                N     N             N    N
 N      N          N              N-N1              N    NA N         N     N N"N
  |            H             |         H            |          H                  H
        NH                        NH                     NH                 NH
     N     N                   N"N                    N     N            N     N
 N      N     N             NA N       N           N     N   "N       N     NA N
 H            H             H          H           H          H       H           H
        NH                        NH                     NH                 NH
     N"N                       N    N                 N"    N            N     N
  I           H              |         H            |          H       |          H
         NH 2                     NH2                    NH 2               NH2
 N ilN -1,N                 N     N-1,N            N     N-1,N     -- N)IN -1,N
     N     N                   N 'N                   N 'N                N    N
  NA N               N      N     N    N           Ni NA N            NlN         N
 H                          H           |          H           |      H            I
         N2          NH 2                   NH 2                             NH 2
     N      N                  N     N                N     N             NAN
  N      N     N            N     N    N            N     N    N          N N     N
     N'    N                   NIN                    N'    N            N     N
 N   ANA NH                 N     NA   NH2         N N        NH2     N iN        N
 H                          H                      H                  H
     N      N                  N     N                N'    N             NIN
~NANA NH2                   NA NA NH2       -~--NAN            NH2    N              H
     N     N                   N    N                 N     N            N    N
 N      NA N                N     NA N             N  NNA N           N     NA N
 H            H             H          H           H           H      H           H
     N     N                   N    N                 N     N             NN
 NN         N               NA NA N                NN       N         NA NA N
 H             I            H           |          H           I      H            |
                                              -59-

                                                                                  2                        NH     2
             NH2                           H2
          N NH 2                   N         N   H2               N            NH2                    N         N
                N              N                              NH,                                               N
                                    N'-'                            AA                                N     NH      2
                         N N              N    NH2                N     N      NH2
       N                                                 N                                                NHN
         ANH  2
                                      AN
                                      NN                               NH2                              N        H
                                                                                                                 N
       N         N                    A A                           N   N                   N
                                    NI NNH 2                       N N         NH 2                  N     N     NH
  ,)"
       N
        NANANH
             N       2                 N H                          N       N                            N H
                                                                                                                     2
      H           H     -i
                                    H NAAN    H                    H
                                                                          IliHA-A        0,-      H
                                                                                                        N     NNH
                                          NH                            NH                                 NH
         N
          1 NH                         A
                                      NN                 N           NA1N NNN N                           NHN 2
                                               N-k                                  j N                  N      NH
                 N     N'                                          N~J         N
       K~I~NAAN~                    H           H                 NN'N
         A                            NN        N             N        NNN                                          N NAN
      H(,NN N     H             N                  1A              H N'J"NIH                  H            NH
                                    N N         NilJ,'                                                                    N -1,N
    KN    ~N      N               ~             H1                 N     N      N~                     N60
                                                                                                                          H
          H A ,H           N
                                        AN-NNH                         H    ,   H                ~NH2
        N                  N               A                           Al                                N   N"N
         NI ~N     INN                                     N               NLN                         NNAN
    L N     N-jNH                   N NN        t 2        N          N-N H2                  N          J    "j NH
      HI                                     H'
          N NNH 2                   N      N NH 2                  N            NH2(:          -    N          NH 2
         NIN                           N'kN                            NH  2                  N            AL
[I'N), NLN-                           N'9 NN             I           A-A           N
                                                                                        0I-           H
                                                                                                       NNAN
                 "--'NAl                l                   '      N     N 1N
          NN                    N                      N         N               N'~
                             1                                                              1
      H                             H      N      H2               H                     N            H
                N        N~N   ~            N              N         N-60N-

                                                           0               r-O                    f-a                /-a
r-O                     f-0         r                        O ,-a
  HN l  NyNHN         Tl    N yNH, HNNNH              2   .,N yN     yNH   2  HN Y      NyNH      2  HN yN     yNH HNY-NYK
                      N-..     N             N...N             N...    N            N...N                 N-..N               N-..N
    N-..N
       NH,                NH 2                HNN,              HN                   'N,                     NK                 ,N,
      HNN                                H                    N   -        H HN.          -_NH         HN.     N     HHN~ -N
                                    N         NHN -N                                          -N              N     NH             N
                                        H2NH  2    HN        H    N                                 2-                                 -NN
      HN .<N..N              N.<NH        N     N               N.-N.N        HN<N                  HN<         N        HN         N
                                                                      HN           -N                  N                     -N
              HNHN                      HN
                                    a\IH         -H                              a-            NH             I
                                                      a:                                                           <
                    HNN
                                        HN~~
                                                               NNH
                                                                            2    .          N
                 H~yyN2      -     -N 2          r  N   2
                                                                                 -'        '    NH 2 -N~ F-       .NH  2
                                                                              N                           N                         N
       N
          y
              N         N
                             N~
                                                N                NI..
                                                                    y          ~N                                 ~N                 N
          NH 2         H2 N                H2N                       NH 2             H2N                H2 N
     0~                                -
  H  y    NH      -H    '..NH          HN N HN N             -,NyNyNH          2     N       N         .- N _N              HN       N
                      2
                                 Y-2       y          2                 1                        _NH                  N                 yN\
     N...        N               N    N'                          NI.                          1<H                       2-      NH
                                                                              yNN                   ~                                 NN
               N     .- N                .- N                         N-.N                                .- N                 -N

                       HO                     HO                    HO                 HO                    HO                    HO
    HO
HO                HO                    HO                    HO                   HO                  HO                    HO
     HN     N     NH 2   N      N       NH     HN      N      NH 2     N     N     NH 2 HN       N     NH  2 HN       N        NH HN        N     N
                                            2
               N            NyN                     N      N              NNN                 NNN                  N     N               N      N
         N
            NH 2                NH 2                 HN,                   HN                    N                    N                     N
      HQO             QOHHO         OH                   OHH                  OHH                 OHH        OH                   OH
   HO6              H 1               HO11                   HOI                 HO                  HOI                 HO
           HN           NN          N            HN \N               -N       N           HN \N               HN       N        /   HN       N
                                 N NN             2         N                 N                  N                    N                     N
              H2 N              H 2N                 HN                   HN                 -N                  .-N                   .- N
                                                                                    Ho     OH         Ha      OH              HO     OH
         OH          HO     OH         HO      OH             Ho      OH
   Ho
        HN \f  N        N-        N      N     N'        NH-N              N N          HN      N           HN       N     NH      HN     -N
           N     N           N                          NHN<N              N           N         N'NNHN               N                       N
                                                                                                         2
          H2 N              H2 N                 HN                     HN                  -N                 -N            .            N
                          OH             HO-                                               OH           H                      H
                              OH        HO     \                                               OH      HO\                  HO \
 HO                                                            HO
 HO                                                            HO      'N
       HN      N     NH 2 HN       N NH 2 HN            NNH        2     NN    N     NH 2 .- N     N          -N       N          H.-N        N
                                Y-NH IfNH                  IfrNH2                                                                                  N,\
               y                                           IN                   yN                   IfNH                 lfNNfN
            NN                      N                     N                 N     N                  N                   N                     N
               NH 2          H2 N                  H2 N                        NH 2           H2 N               H2 N                   .N
                                                                                            OH            H                     HO
                        OH              HO
                                                                 H\                             OH      H       \/             HO\
                    H 0OH            HON                                                1
HO                                                               HO
      HN      N     NH2          N           HNfN                         N     N     NH            N         N          N            HN       N
                            \r-NH     -                 -NH                Y-     ,       2           I-N2
                                           2                     2                                                           fNH
                                                         N
          NNN                      N                                         NN          N            N                     N                    N
              N            .- N                     N                           N               -N                  -N                     -N
                                                                              -62-

H N?_          H N?_            H N?            H Np_               H N?       HN?          H N(_
 HN Y-N     YN2 Y''    N         H HN       NyNH 2 HN Y-N yNH ,NY-N yNH, HN Y-NyNH2 HN YNyN,
     NNN              N ,N            N ,N             N ,N         NYN             N-YN          NN
       NH2               NH,           HNK              HN,          HN,             ,N           'N*
  HN
     9 9 9 9 9
       N     NH 2 , N    N    NH2 HN     NyNH2 HN         N
                                                                0- 99-0-
                                                              NH,,N    N
                                                                                  7- 0
                                                                             NH2 HN     NyNH2 HN Y  NYN,
     YY               Y Y                              Y             Yy             YY
       NH2               NH2            HN,             HNN          HN,              IN,          IN,
   HNY N YNH 2 ,N YN YNH2 HN Y-N yNH2 HN Y-N yNH ,NYN YNH2 HNyNyNH2 HN .,N YN,
     NYN              NY               NYN             NYN           NYN            N ,N              Y
   H   NH2          H    NH2        H HN,,.             HN,       H HN,,                N,     H-   N,
  HN Y-N    yNH 2 ,A Y NyNH      2 HN Y-N YNH2 HN Y-N YNHA,            NYNH2 HNyNyNH2 HN YN YN,,
      N ,N             NYN             NYN             NyN           NYN            NYN            N yN
        NH2              NH2            HN,,             HN,,         HN,               N
     NY N yNH 2 , NYN yNH2 HN Y-N yNH2HN YN YNH N Y-N YNH2 HN Y-N yNH2 HNY-N y N,,
      NYN              NYN              NYN             NYN          NYN             NYN           NYN
        NH2               NH2            HNII            HN,,          N    I           ,N,          IN,
   53
   HN Y-N
                      1i
              yNH2 N "N
                                            53 5 4,
                               NH 2 HN Y-N yNH2HN
                                                                                        91 \9
                                                          -N yNH,N YN yNH2 HN Y-N YNH2 HNY-N YN
      NYN               NYN             N'YN            NYN           NYN             NYN          N'YN
         NH2              NH2            HN,,            HNI           HN,,            ,N,
                                                           -63 -

HN               HN                 HN              HN               HN    .            HN    .            HN
 HN      N     NH2    N    N     NH2 HN     N     NH2 HN       N    NH N       N     NH2 HN       N    NH2 HN        N    N
      N    N            N    N           N     N            N     N          N    N             NNN               NN
                                                                                                       N             N,
                                          HN                 HN               HN                  NN
         NH2               NH2
                                                      0                0                  0                   0~
  HN     N     NH 2   N    N     NH2 HN     N      NH2 HN      N    NHN         N    NH2 HN        N    NH2 HN       N     N
      N    N            N     N          N      N           N     N          N     N            N    N             NN
                                                                                                    N,               N
                                           HN,,              HN-              HN,
     S   NH2               NH2
       Y-y                   yY y          Y-                  Y             Y                    YlI
  HN     N     NH2,   N    N     NH2 HN      N     NH2 HN      N     NH   N     N    NH2 HNyNyNH2             HN Y    NYN
                   N       N                 YN    N           N       N        N        N      N    N             N    N
      NN
         NH2               NH2             HNW               HN..             HNW                  N                  N
  HN     N      NH 2 .N     N NH 2 HN        N     NH 2 HN      N NH N          N NH 2 HN          N     NH 2 HN      N     NH
                         N     N          N N               N N              N     N            N--. N             N    N
       N    N
          NH2               NH               N                  NH2             NN                           NH         NH2
     H             2HN      N 2 NH2 HNNNH2N                     N     NH2N             NH2 HNN
       NN                N              N                  N                  NN                 N                 NN
          NH 2              NH2            INH                  NH2              NH2                                  NH2
   H                  H
   N                  N                0                 0                  0                  0                 0
   '      N        HN    N      NH2   N YN YNH2N N              N     N 2 HN
                                                                      NH          N N NH 2 HNNNH2HN                  N    NH2
       NNN               NNN               N     N           Ny    N            N    N            NNN                N-N
          NH2              IN,,              NH2                NH2                                  NH2               NH2
                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                               S
                                                                          S
                                                        0
                                      0
  HN -NNH2 HNyNyNH2 ,,NYN yNH                        2 HN YN YNH       2 HN YNNH2N -NyH                          NY NYN2
      N-.N              N-.N             N-.N               N-.N               N-.N               NY.N                    N
            .NVS           NH2     s        NH2     s          N,                 NH2       sINH       2       S       N,
                HN Y-NY           ,N YNyN2H               -NyNH2       HN Y-NyN2                N NyNH2 HN Y-N yNH           2
                     N-.N             NNN               N-.N                 N-.N               N-.N              N-.N
                       NH2              NH2               IN,,                 NH2                NH2
                                                                  -64-

HN 'TN    "INH2   N'TN    "INH2   HN"-N    "INH2   N'T-N  "INH2   HN 'T,-N  "INH    HN 'fN   'INH2   HN r-N 'IN,
                     N,    N          N,    N         N    N           N,    N          N     N          N     N
     N,    N
        NH2             NH2            HN\             HN\              HN                N                 N
 HN      N    NH2  N     N    NH2 HN'    N     NH2 N     N   NH2 HN        N    NH  HN     N     NH2 HN     N YN
     N      N            N            N      N        NYN               N    N           NYN             N      N
         NH2             NH2            HN,            HN,               HN,               N                N
 HN     N     NH2 N     N     NH2 HNY N YNH 2      N    N    NH2 HN       N     NH  HN     N     NH2HN      N     N
     NYN             N     N          N     N         N    N           N     N          N     N          N     N
        NH2             NH2            HN,             HN,              HN,                N                N
         H               H                H              H                 H               H                 H
         N               N                N              N                 N               N                 N
         /                                             1/o              1/o              I/lrulIrul r          I
 HN     N     NH2 N     N     NH2 HN     N     NH2 N    N    NH2 HN       N     NH  HN     N     NH2 HN     N     N
     NYN             N     N          N     N         NyN              NyN              NyN              N     N
        NH2             NH2             HN'.           HN'.             HN.                NN
        0               0                0              0                 0                0                0
    ro/              1/                  /l        ro/                     /l I      ro I                   /l
HN      N    NH2  N     N    NH2 HN      N    NH2  N    N    NH2 HN       N    NH  HN     N     NH2 HN     N     N
     NYN             NYN              N     N        NYN               NyN              N     N         N     N
        NH2             NH2            HN,            HN.,              HN."              N                N
        S               S                S              S                 S               S                S
    ro/            P/P1/                                            P/         II    ro/               P/         I
HN     N     NH2  N   N      NH2 HN     N     NH2                HN      N     NH  HN     N     NH2 HN     N     N
    Ny    N         N     N          N     N         N     N          N     N          N     N          N'. N
       NH2            NH2             HN.'            HNs              HN               AN                 N
                                                           -65-

HN     NyNH2 /N Y-N yNH2 HN Y-N YNH2 /,N YN yNH2                          HN Y-N YNH        HNY-N yNH2 HN YN yN,
    Ny    N           NYN              NyN                 NYN                NYN               NYN              NYN
       NH2               NH2           HN                    HN\               HN\                N                N
 HNY NYNH     2  /N     -N YNH2 HN..< NYNH2              N YNY       NH2  HN     NYNH       HN      N    NH2 HN     N    N,
          N           N     N           NN    N             N     N           N     N            Ny   N           N    N
    N
        NH2              NH 2             HN,                HN                 HN                  N               N
HN     N    NH2 /N       N    NH 2 HN      N     NH  2 /N     N     NH 2 HN      N    NH    HN     N    NH 2 HN     N    N,
    N     N           N    N           N-. N               N     N            N     N           N     N          N    N
       NH 2              NH 2             HN                 HN                 HN                 N
HN<N<NH2 ./N..NY              NH 2 HN..N..NH2 HN              N      NH 2 HN     N    NH2 HN       NHH NH 2 HN..N..NH2
        H                H                  H                  H                  H
                           N           N      N             N    N            N-N               N     N          N N
    N-. N             N
       NH 2              NH 2              N.                HNH2                NH2      ~       N.NH
  N    N    NH2N         N    NH2 HN       N     NH2   HN     N     NH2   HN     N    NH2 HN       N    NH2     HN N     NH2
    N     N           N    N           N      N            N     N            NNN                                     N
        r1~         rIi                                      10/               II/           P/-P
       NH2               NHNH                                 NH2                NHNH                               NH2
HN     N    NH2 HN       N    NH 2 HN      N     NH 2   HN    N      NH2 HN      N    NH2 HN       N    NH2 HN      N    NH2
             H\          A
    Ny    N           N    N            Ny    N            N     N            N     N           N     N          Ny   N
       NH 2              NH 2     SNH                          NH 2              NH2               NH2              NH 2
          N H 2 HN N     N    NH    N2            HN          N     NH 2H  N     N    NH 2 HN N         NHHN        N    NH2
                                                                                                          2
    NY N              N    N           N       N           N     N            N     N          N      N          N-N
                NH2              NH2                NK                       N               NH 2                NH   2
                                                                 -66-

HN/                HN/              HN/                 HN/                  HN    /          HN/                 HN/
HN      N    NH2N         N    NH 2 HN      N     NH2N           N    NH 2 HN        N    NH      N N       NH'2HNON            N,
                        N   N            N      N            N      N             NYN             NYN                 N      N
    N      N
        NH 2              NH 2    -       HN,                  HNs      -           HN,              N        __          N
             0/                0/                 0/                      /               O/          1      0/                    /
                   N     NH 2 N      N     NH 2 HN      N      NH 2   N       NYNH2 HNY         N     NHN          N     NH2HN        N      N
            HN
                      N           N     N            N     N              N      N           N     N           Ny     N            N      N
                N
          S        NH 2     -        NH 2     -        HN.,                 HN,               HN,       -        ,N,        -         N,
     HN       NYNH2 .N          NYNH2 HN           N     NH 2 /.N     N       NH 2 HN      N    NH N         N     NH 2 HN      N      N,
           NYN              NYN                 NYN                 N .. N                 NN               N         N        Y   N
    H         NH 2      H       NH2      H       HNs         H       HNs          H      HN,       H         N         H        N
    N                   N                N                   N                    N                NN
  HN'rl   NyNH2 ,N YN YNH2 HN Y               NYNH2        ,N 'v   NYNH2 HNY-N yNH                NY-N yNH2HN               N- N
      NYN                 N                 NYN                 NN                   Ny              N      N            N
          NH2               NH2              HNN                 HN,                  HN                NN,
             HN      N    NH2,   NITN ,      NH2 HNyNyNH2,              N       N     NH2 HN    -N      NH ,N      -N     NH2HN 'l      NYN,
                  NN      N         NN      N          N     N N            N     NN           N    NN           N         N         N
           S         NH2               NH2         H      N                   HNH               HN        S         N                 ,N
        HN      N    NH2/N        N     NH2HN        N    NH2         N N       NH 2 HN      N    NHN          N     NH2 HN        N      N,
             NN                NyN                NN                  NyN                 N     N           NN                 NyN
                NH 2              NH 2             HNN                 HNN                 HNN                  N                 N
                                                                          -67-

HN/              HN/                  HN/                  HN/                HN/              HN/                HN/
     N     NH2/N          N      NH22                   HHNN      N     NH2 HN       N     N     N           NH2 HN       N    N,
HN
   N    N             NN                  NrN                   NNN               NyN               NyN               NyN
     NH2                  NH 2             HN                    HN,                HN,                N       -          N
           O/           -          f                 O/                O/                  O/               O/                 0/
         HN      N     NH2      N     N    NH 2 HN         N     NH2          N      NH2 HN      N     NH   N       N    NH2 HN      N     N
              NYN                  N-N                  N..N               NyN                NyN                NyN              NyN
                 NH 2       -         NH 2       -       HN                  HN,                HN,                 N               IN,
    HN     N     NH2,N          N     NH2HN           N    NH2    N     N      NH2HN        N    NH    N     N      NH2 HN     N      N,
        NYN                   NyN                  NYN                NYN                N     N          NYN                N     N
   H       NH 2       H         NH 2      H         HN,        H       HNs        H       HN,        H
 HNYN YNH2 ,N YN YNH2 HNY-N YNH2 HNY-N YNH2. NYN yNH2HN Y-N YNH2HN Y-N YNH2
     NYN                NN                  Ny                         N             N                N
       NH2                   NH2H           ....      H              NH2                NH2               N                  NH2
          HN          N       NH 2     N      N         NHHN           N NH2 N              N NH2 HN N            HN2
                                                                                                                 NH            N NH 2
               N         N         NN                    N    N             N      N           N       N           N     N           NYN
        OH       NH2         N        NH2                  N           2       NHNH
                                                                                  2                                     2               NH2
      HN      N     N          N
                               N                     N       NH2 HN        N     NH2HN        N     NH2N         N    NH2 HN        N     NH2
          N      N             N      N               N                  N                  NN                   N.              N     N
                  N S             NH2    S              NH2   S        .,.NNH2                        S          NH2     S          N
                   HN      N      NH2HN          N     NH 2 HN                NN      N
                                                                                 7 NH2       H       N     N       NH2HN      N      NH 2
                          YN        N'.N                 N      N        N            N       N          N       N          N     N
                           NH 2                  NH2            N                        NH2               NH2                 SN
                                                                           -68-

       C1                  Cl                 C1                  C1                   CI                 CI                 Cl
      HN     N      NH 2   N      N   NH2 HN          N    NH2 HN       N      NH 2 HN      N      NH HN        N     NH2 HN       N    N
           NYN                 NYN                NNN                NYN                  NNN                NYN                NYN
             NH2                  NH2               HN,               HN                   HN,               AN,.                AN,.
                                    NH2                                          HN                                             N
            CI                    N    N                 CI                     N "N                   CI                    N "N
   CI                                      H          AN                  H 2 NNNH            C                A        H2N     N    NH
                      HN     N     NH2                             HN      N      NH2                             HN     N    NH 2
       HN  Y-Y N     NH 2 yN    NII          N        HN     N    NH2NNN  yYY         Y-Y          HN      N     NH 2 NNY
            N     N          NH2                   CI                   HN                       CI    NNN           NCI
               N          NH2                                NH                 N                          N                  N
                           Nyj                                         Y-                                    ,
      Cl CI                  H2 N      NH           CI C C                 H N        NH         CI   C1 CI              H N       N
               N.      HN      N    NH2               N.            HN       N    NH2              N.              HN     N    NH2
       HN NYNN       NH2NN    NH2      N       .   CIHN NyN  N    NH 2 NN HN          N       .  CIHN Ny N       NH 2 NN  N        N     .   Ci
               NH2                  NH2          C                            HN           C             'N                 N             CI
                                  N    N                       -      C         N                                           N
                 H          H2N     N    NH                               H2N     N     NH                              H2N     N    NH
                 A     HN         NN                       CI       HN       NyNH2            CIHN                   N         NH2
       HN      N     NH 2      N    N            H                        N2                   HN                     N    NH      C
               NH2         N          H2Cl                 HNr                    N"       CI             N                      1
            NN       N         NH2                 CI    NN NIHN                                 CI    N     N       2N
             N    N               N     N               CIN.                    N                    C                       N          AN
                            H2N     N     NH                              H2N      N    NH                              H2N    N      NH
                 yNH2                                     y      HN             NH          N.N
               N        HN      N   NH2                             HN       N     NH2                             HNNNH2
                  2
        N.      HN     N2 N
                      NH          N                   HN     N    NH2 N.N                           HN     N     NH2 N       N
            N     N           NH2                      H       N           HN                          NN                 N
                H2                          CI              HN                                          ANN.                            CI
                    N
[001101 In other emboidments, dihydrotriazine compounds of Formula III may be used in
connection with the compositions and methods of the disclosure. Substituent defintions, unless
otherwise indicated, are the same as provided with reference to Formula I.
                                                                     - 69-

                                                   R9 R10
                                                  NXN
                                              N      N    N
                                               I      I      I
                                              R,     R3     R4
                                                     III
wherein:
        R1, R2, R3 , R4, R5 , R 9, and Rio, are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., a C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl,
SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C4 to
C12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N, inlcuding a C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl
(e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
including a C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the
heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea);
optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally
substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl,
NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain
alkynyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH,
0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl);
        optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted
naphthyl); optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted); optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R1 and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
                                                    -70-

         or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[001111      In certain embodiments, 0-Rx may be selected from: 0-C 1 to C8 straight chain or
branched chain alkyl; O-C 3 to C7 cycloalkyl; O-C 4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; 0-acyl; O-esters; and
0-thioesters.
[001121      In other embodiments, optional substitutions may include, e.g., OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S
alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl. Further, an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, etc. may be substitued with an oxygen,
silicon, sulphur, etc. to form a heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, etc.
[001131      In certain aspects, each of: R 3 or R 3, R 4, R 5, and Rio, or ,R 3, R4, R5 , R 9 and Rio, or R 2 ,
R3 , R4, R5, R 9 and Rio may be independent selected from:
         H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
and each of the remaining substitutent groups: R 1 , R2 , R 4, R 5, R 9, and RIO, or R 1, R 2, and R 9, or
R 1 and R 2 , or R 1 , respectively, are independently selected from:
         H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0
alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain
or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or
optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted
alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted
with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl);
heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from
0, S, or N, including C 2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the
heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C 3 to CII
alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the
nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea); aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted
phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl); alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl,
                                                    -71-

oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally
substituted); alkylheteroaryl;
          or R 1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
          or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[00114]        Exemplary compounds and substiuents of R1 , R2 , R 3,R 4, R5, R 9, and RIO of Formula
III are shown below. However, additional combinations of selections of substituents of R 1 , R 2 ,
R 3, R 4, R5 , R 9, and Rio are envisioned.
          N     N          N                   N                             0N             N   N
    H2N      N    NH2   N    N  NH2          N   N  NH2          N    N    NH2            N   N   NH2
             H           |   H               H   H               H    H                   H   H
            .0 H
     HO                N      N                N      H0         N        N    CN     NN
                      N jNNNH         0
                                    '"'--'  2 NNNH
                                               1  )   H          N,N~ NH,         ~    NA1,NA)NJ
                      H    H                 H   H              H    H                  H   H   H
                                                    -72-

       N 1-1   NNN                             N~N               N1     N             N'N                N l N
 H4N'kN' 'NH,        'N'      N   NH,    HN-' NA NH,         'NN'        NH2     'N       N    N-      HN'N
         H              H     H                   I            JH                   HH        H        HI
        N'N       N-          NANN             N--N           N                      N-1 N        N      WN
                                                 N'      N~ 3iN~.              N                          -NLNN
    NANA NH,           -M'N-           N
        II               I H      H              I    H       II         H             H HI           II         I
      N-KN                N    N               N*N               N    N               N'    N            NJN
HNA N-ANH, -NkNA NH 2
                       H      H
                                         H44kNA
                                                 IJ
                                                      Nfl H2 N A    N' 'NH2
                                                                       H
                                                                                ' NIN
                                                                                  H      H
                                                                                              N-
                                                                                               H
                                                                                                    -N-kN-NH,
                                                                                                      H      I
        H
       NI N                 N*N               NI NN                N               N*N                  N-IN
                -WkN     -H2-NJ -R         -- jN-!NA    N          AN-   -   N          N    NNAN-.            -
         ~K~ANH                 HH               jH          IIH                 jHI
                                                                                           1
              NN            N-V-N              N>VN                N   N               N'                 N)ZN
 HAN) NNH 2           -N-kN -NH      2    HN<N~wlNH 2        'N<     N-!NH2       -NAJ NAN-' 'NAJN               NH,
          H             H     H                                      H              H     H     H      H
            /-~N             N-N               N>       ~        NN                  N    N              N-N
    NAJNA NH,          'NJN        '      'N~    A    N    N<          ANN               NA N~      '-NAN--N
            II            j       H                   H                  H              HI                 I
 H2 N)NA NH 2 'N
          H             H     H
                                NNH 2     HNA'N!NH2
                                                   jH
                                                               N11       N AN  NH N
                                                                                  2
                                                                                     H    H
                                                                                              ~'WN
                                                                                                H
                                                                                                      N1'NNH,
                                                                                                       H
  '~~'NW'N       H     ' N'A NA N        NAA ' ~             ~NN             N ~          NA N-     -~N--LNA!N
            II           I        H               IH                     H        IHI                      I
                                                           -73   -

          HN             N     N            NXN                  N    N           N     N           N     N
H 2N    N     NH 2   N      N     NH 2  H2N    N    NH 2    N      N    NH 2   N      NN9        N    N      NH 2
        H            H      H               N          2           H           H     H    H      H     I
           N N     NH        N            N
            N             N     N                N             N     N                   N    N       N N
 H2N       N NH2       N     N      H2 N NN        NH2      N      N    NH    N       NN      N     NN           N NH
         H             H     HH                                         H         H         H           |
       NH N               N      N                N               N   N            N N               N     N
            N N      2N      N     NH2   HN     N    NH,       N    N    NH2   N     NN         N            NH
         H             H         H                  H        |      H           H     H    H      H
                                 N           NyN                 N    N          NN                 N     N
                           N
     N'ilN INH2       -NA1N'LN~            WNlN AN"       "'N AIN kN'        ~N  11,N 9N-       NIN AN"N
                                                                                                      I
          H                   H HH                  H        II         H     IHI
                                                         -74-

  N'N                   N      N                N     N                    N      N
N lN        NH        N     N     NH2         N    N     NH 2           N"lN         NH2
   NA    N)NH2           N     N     NH2         N     N     NH 2           N 1N        NH2
   H     H            H        H              H        H                H        H
  N      N              N      N                N     N                    N      N
N    N      NH        N     N     NH2         N 1,NN     NH 2           N      N     NH2
H
                  2
                    I          H         I             H          I           H|
     N      N               N      N               N      N                    N      N
   N     N      N       N      N     N           N    N     2N
                                                                            NH     N    N
   H     H      H       H      H     H           H    H      H              H      H    H
  N      N              N      N                N     N                    N       N
N    N      NH 2      N     N     NH2         N    N      NH2           N      N     NH 2
      IN     N           IN        N
                                                    N     N
                                                                               N      N
   N)kN         N"       N      N    N           N    N N                   N      N     N
   I     H      H         I     H    H           I     H     H              I      H     H
  N      N              N      N                 N    N                    N       N
NlkN 1      N         NlkN        N           NlkN        N             N ilN        N
H      I    H         H      I    H           H     I     H             H      I     H
      N     N                N     N                N     N                    N      N
   N     N1     N"       N     N1    N"          Nk    N     N"             N      N    N,
   H     H      I        H     H     |           H     H     |              H      H     |
   N     N              N      N                 N    N                     N      N
NAN KN                N     N      N          Nk    N    N          N    N     N      N
       I    H                I     H             I        H                 I         H
      N      N               N     N                N     N                    N      N
   N     NA N            N      N    N           N     N     N              N      N    N
   I     H                I     HI               I     HI                   I      HI
   N     N               N     N                 N     N                    N      N
                      N INA        N          N     NA N              N  ANAN         N
N     N      N.
H      |              H         I |           H     I     |              H      I     |
       N     N               N     N                N     N                    N      N
   NAN          N        N      N    N           N     N     N              N      N     N
   I      I     I         I     I     I          I     I     I              I      I      I
                                           -75-

         NNNH 2               N             N      2                 N         NH2              N            NH2
                Nl    NH2    N il     N        9 NH2                NN       N) NH2 N                 NIlN) NH2
     N        N                         N       N
 NN          NH2               N                NH                               H                         H      2
  H      H          2     1                 H                                H                     I      H
       NIN                          H        N                        N        N                     N      N
    N N                     N N N                  NNNH2              N      N                   N     N       NH 2
H          I                          H I                          H               H            H            I
      N N                              N        N            N              N   N                       N      N
     NNH                             N                N             NI        NHN                              N2
                        N     NN                 NN                  N N         N-               N NN
  H       H       H                  H       H      H                 H      H     H               H      H       H
       N N                             N       N                        NN                            N     N
N     N               N         N                           N        N N        NH2              N      N      NH 2
       N    N                                   N N                     N      N                        N      N
  N-NN                                  N        N                    N      N     N               N      N     ,Nl
   I H            H                           H      H                       H     H                I      H      H
        N     N                      NN                   N                N     N
   N      N    N                        N       N          N           N      N0N                   N       NN
H     I        H          I             I        H                  H    I      H     N                I       H
           N                          N        N             N             N    N                           N N
       kNN N            -            N      N     'NN                  NN                 N   -    N N NN
  H       H     I                    H       |                        H          |                 H      |
        N     N                       NN                  N                N     N
   N      N    N                 N      'N      N                      NN NANlNl                 NJ N N N
    I         H       I           I       I        H                I I                            I      I     H
                        NIIN              N-N                N   6            N
   I      HI              N'          I         H    I                     I   H        N            I        HI
                      -   NNIN                              N      N                  N     N
                        I                                            N'N'
           H                          I                H                HI               I        HI
  CNN                                          I                "                   NNN
                                                                                     ' (:N'l                       N
Q'NAN N'~                                   y---"        IJIN t        NIilN
                                                               -76-

                  /-     -      -O                                      r-O        /-                        0/0
0 ,               0                  0
                      ,
                                          ,                 0    '                0   l                 0         )01
                         HN..-N               HN..-N                 HNrN                 HNYN                 HN-,N                    Ny
     HN-N
          NH,                  NH 2              IHN,                  HN~l                    N,                     ,                  1N
  ON                 0N             0N                   0                      06                    0                    0
          H N     N           N >N           I N      N     ~       .N   N              H N >N               -N>.       N         -       _
           HNN                HN> 'N               >IN               HN&                       N               HN>        N              \J-N
            HN                  HN                 YHN                  HN                         N                      N)-N
                                                                                                  - N 0 -o      -     N          0     -N
               0~    ~          ~                       /-     2    -0H   -    N -    N 0-o
     H N >N              N> N            H N >N              .N>N                     H N >N                N> N                    N .. N>N
        HNN                  NIN            N y            N                 H            N                 HN r
        H2N                H2 N             IHN\                    HN                   .N                  .NN
                                                                                                         00
     <-              0-                0                   <
                             0-                              0\       ~*                        \0       0\                  0\/
     H N     N<         HNN                 HN                     IN .NY<                  N>_N                    NN              HN
        HN   .. N         HN                  HN                      HN -rN                HN                 HN
                                                                            y yN      yNY-,N                          >yN                 yN
            NH 2           H2 N                H2 N                         NH,              H2 N               HN
                                                                                                           00
        <\/000                           o
                                                              0\                        \0         0      0      -             0     \
    HN     N Y'         HN-N              HIN -'I                          -Nr,              N      N         -N-                       N     _
       HN     -N         H                                             HN     IN             HN                   HN
                                                      N                INy                       yN                   y    N                y
                            N>N                 yN
           N,               -N       ~N                                                          N                 .NN
                                                                         -77-

    HO                HO                  HO                  HO                  HO                   HO                HO
HO                HO                 HO                   HO                  HO                    HO               HO
    HN     N__          NyN                 HN      NN                   N T       HN        ~N                  N          N          r
       HN -N             HN yN                 HN      N           HN      N          HN         N         HN      N            NN
           NH 2                NH 2               HN,                 HN                      N                  NN
     HOH           HO    OH         HOOH                HOOH                HOOH                  HOOH             HOOH
  HO6              HO               HO                  HO                  HO                    HO               HO
           HN >-N           -N      N-        HN     N           -N \N         N2HN N                   -N \N             -N >_N
             HN N             H                 H     N              N             H        N              HN                     N
                    N                 N          H      N              yN                       N                  N                 N
             H 2N              H2 N               HN                 HN                 .- N                  -N              -N
   HO    OH         HQ     OH       HOH                  H      OH             Ho    OH            HO   OH           HO     OH
                                          HN _N              -N                   HNN                   N-N              -N     _N
       HN >-Nr         -NN
         HN               HN                    N               HN                  HN                      N                   N
                 N                 N            yNN                 yN                         N                 N                  N
          H2 N             H 2N               HN                  HN                  .- N               -N                  -N
                                                                                      OH            H                 H
                        OH             HO
                             OH      HO                             Ol              \OH            HO       I        HO\
       HN      N        HN                   HN                           N          . HN       N           NHN
         HN      N         HN                  HNN                   HNyN                HNN               HNN
              NH 2          H2 N                H2 N                      NH 2            H2 N              H2 N               -N
                                     HO                                                              HO                HO
                       OH                  -OH-
                                                                                                    HO                HO
                            OH      HO                     HOH
HO_                &                                       HO0
     HN                HN>N                HN>N                     NYN                  -N      N        -NN                  N    N
        HN      N        HN                  HN                      HN                   HN y N             HN >yN              NN
                 y           yN                  y N                      YN                                                       YN
             N            .- N                .- N                         N               ..- N               -N                -N
                                                                        -78-

H N_          H(            H N7_         H N_            H N?        HN(?           H     N$_
  HN    -,r HNYN~_r
              N    Hy                           HNyl HN._I<
                                             _NY..      _N      HNyN-<-    NNyr
                                                                           HN             AYN,
                                                                                            NN
       HY           NyN         HNYN            HYN            HNyN        HNy                  NY
       NH,            NH2          HNK             HN,,I,
  HNYN,,r         >Ny~ly        HNyNl        y~       N           N<       YN<                 NN<
    HN    -N        HYN          HN,N            HN   -N       HN    -N     HN    yN            IN     N
        NH2            NH2          HN,,            HNK            l           ,NI,
    HN-Ne                                          HNN Hy.,,      HN-N       HN
       HNYN          HNyN          HNYN             NN           HY              'rN               Ny
  H       NH2     H      NH2   H     HM-,      H     HNN,     H           H      ,N,        H       ,,
  N               N                    N                      N           NN
  HNYI Kr         _NyNll<      HNyN.~r        _NNY.           HNyN..     ~N                ,~    NN
    HN    -,N       H~y          HN   -N         HN   -N       HN    -N     HN    -IrN         INYN
        NH2            NH2          HN.,            HN,   ,
  HNyN -NyNH,                  HN    y -)_      Ny__ -N          ,NT      Ny                 KNT
       Hy           NyN         HyN             Hy             HNfN        HNyN               ,Ny
     s NH2      s     NH2          HN,,            HN,,                                  s
   HNyN~r                         HN          Ny,<           HNN._<     _KNN..<        -KyK.
  HNYN            HN fN        HN yN           HNYN           HNf-N       HN yN             ,NyN
      NH2            NH2                  HN        . K          NN,
                                                     -79-

                  HN               HN_              HN                  HN               HN                HN    .
HN
 HNY-N,,              NY-N,          HN     N,        ,N       N,,-       HNyNr           -N   N     y   N   1 N-    N,,
    HNYN               HNYN             HN-N              HN      N          HN .N            HNYN                 NYN
        NH
        NH2                 NHNN
                            NH 2           HN                HHN                  N                N                 N
                                                                           0   I
 HN      N,         - N     N        HN      N-        .N       N     -HN         N          N     N           N     N
    HNYN               HN       N       HN      N         HN       N         HN      N        HN     N          IN       N
         NH2                NH 2           HNs                HN,                 NNN
                                                                         S                                   S
  HN  Y     N          N yN            H y     N        HN  YN                N  Y,,
                                                                                   N      'NyHN     -N          N     N
     HNYN                      H Y         N     N            HNN                     N       H NN                      N
                        HN
         NH2                 NH2         H   N                  NH               HN                    H            H      2
   N                  N                N                N        N           HN                           N
      Y
     HN        N            Y
                         HN-N             Y
                                         HN     N         HNyNN                   Y
                                                                               HNYN             Y
                                                                                               HN N                 Y
                                                                                                                  HN N
          NH 2                NH2           I NH                 NH 2              NH 2           I NH                NH 2
   H                   H
   N                   N               0                 0                    0N
     HN-     N         HN    -N         HN    -N           HN      N           HN-     N        HN -N              HNN
          NH   2                               NH 2              NH 2              IN                NH 2               NH2
      00                              0                0                      S                                  s
  HN             HN HN N    Y-
                            I      N     NY<           HNyN,<                HNYN             N    NY,,        HNYN,<
                                                               N             HN     N         HN y    N         HN       N
                   HN    N          HN     N         HN y
                       NH 2             NH 2            /  N,,NH                     2
                                                                                                   NH 2       S      N,
                                                                 -80-

 H   N\,,      N\N,     HN\                N            N                 N             N
  HN-N        HN-N       HNYN           HN yN       HN yN              HNYN         'IN 'rN
     NH2          NH2       HN,            HN,
 HNY,.<      ,NyN,,,,   HNY,<            ~NY,,      HN        N,,<   'INNY,,<      ,NyN
   HN    -N    HN   -N    HN     -N      HN    -N     HN      -N        HN    -N       "N     N
       NH2         NH,       HN.N           HNN           ,N,                                   N
 HNYN.<T      NN>          HNyY<           NY,,<     HN N,r         ~N>NY,<-             ~NNT
   HN YN       HN   -H    HN    y N      HN    -H     HN     -N         HNY           'IN NH
       NH2         NH2       HNN,           HNN          'INN
      H           H           H              H             H                H              H
      N           N           N              N             N                N              N
HNYNT,,     N     NT,, HN    N,,T,  'IN     NT,    HNNT,,           'INNY,>,              ,NyY,
  HN    -N    HN   yN    HN    -N       HN    -HN   HH      -N         HNYN       ~~
     NH2          NH2       HNH            HN,         'IN,,             'II,
      0           0          0               0             0                0              0
HN   N,,<   ,NyNH<     HNyNT,,      ~HN     NT        HN NT,,      ~N         NT,  ~N       NT,
  HNYN        HN yN      HN yN          HN yN       HNYN               HN y N       'IN y
     NH2          NH2       HNN,           HN,          I.N,,                            IN,
               s s            s              s-81-

HN      NN                NN                   HN\                                                               HNN\ HNN N \
  HN-N               HN-N              HN-N                HN-N               HN-N               HN-N            N-N
       NH 2               NH 2            HN.                 HN                   NN
   HNYN               HNYN              HNYN                HNYN                HNYN             HNYN             NyN
        NH 2               NH 2            HNN                 HN,                   N                N
HN     N ,           NyN,,          HNyN,                  N     Nr         HNyN                   N              N N
   HN      N          HN     N          HN     N            HN      N          HN      N         HN    -N
       NH 2                NH 2            HN.N                HN                   N                 N              N
HN   y NY,        'N    YN_         HN       N--     NN
        H                  H                 H                   N
                                                                 H HNyNN            H,   ,  N 'HN    YNY
                                                                                                      HH     HN    YN,
   HN      N         HNYN              HNYN                 HNYN               HNYN              HNYN NH2       H
                                                                                    N
                                                                 N
        /!              1/N               1/N              r-1                    1/               1
        N
   HN     N          HN     -N         HN     -N            HN    -N           HN    -N          HN     N       HN    -N
       NH 2               NH 2              N                   NH 2               NH 2              N              NH 2
      H                 H                                    N      T  N   HN      N,,        HN     N,,      N     N
  N NN            1 HN N                      HN
                        N              N     N                        N                   N
             r1kr~l                                      /        /P/                               1/-              /
   HN     N          HN      N         HN    -N            HN      N          HN    -N          HN      N       HN     N
       NH 2                                 NH 2                NH 2             "N"                 NH 2           NH2
      0                 0                  0                   0SSS
    HNNr                                                                                                     HN     N,
        7'<        HNY,             'IN      N,,<,      HNYNy                                  H7y              N,~
           N    N           HN    N              N                    H     N          N       N          HN  N
           HN              HN   N    N            HN     NN             HN      N          HN        N N     HNN
                NH2               NH2             N    s                    NH2                NH2           N
                                                                  -82-

                   Hr/    HI/          H               /      HN/                     H     /           HN /              H
HN     yT_       _                       HIyy                  AYN           HNHyy                      _YN,<               ,NyN,,<
                                                                 N     N                N       N         N     N             N
                    HN             N N HN N
                                                                                                                                         7
 HNNNN                                                                  HNyN             HNyN              HNyN                 NUN
     NH 2     -          NH 2       -        HNs          ..          HN,          --          N     .,        . -.   N           N
             0/                    0/                    0/                       0                                       /
           HNNy                    NN                 HNyN                       NYN                HNN                NyN<            AN
              HNyN                  HNYN                  HNYN                    HNyN                  HN        N     HNXN               NyN
                 -  NH2      -.-         NH2       --          HN-,           -        HN                   N.               ,NN
       S/                  S/                   S/                       S/                      S?               S                 S?
           HN      N HN NyN
        HN                                                    -,         _NN              ,      HNy         ,-     HNN -N -       _NyN N.NY
   H    HNYN           H    HNyN            H     HN yN              H      HN        N     H     HNN        H      HNN         H      NN
             NH 2                  NH2                HN N                      HN.         N         N      N          N
 HNyN)                N_                                                                          N     N            N NNN N
   HNYN                HN       N            HNYN                     HNYN                    HNYN            HNYN                NYN
        NH2     0          NH    2    a        HN                       HN                       N                 NN
                                                                                                                                          4
          HlyN-)_-                    <Nl_,               HN        -     -)-          NyNY,         HNyly,           _NyN-Y<           _   Nl<,
             HN      N.    ~         NYN<                HN        N               NN                H
                HNyN                                         HN       N              HNyN                HNyN             HNyN              NyN
                     NH 2                  NH2                   HNN                    HN                   NN
      HNyNy )                  N       y       HNyNy                            N y              HNyN               NyN              N    N
          HNYN                HNN                   HNYN                      HNYN                 HNN              HNyN                NyN
              NH 2                  NH 2                HN.                      HN                     NN
                                                                                 -83-

HN/             HN/                                      HN/                HN/             HN/               H    /
HN    NY          N    NY          HNy N                  .N                HN N              NN
   HMN             HN    -N           HN      N             HN       N         MN-N            HNNN                N yN
      NH2              NH 2     -        HN,                   HN.          N                               _N  -      N      _
           0/                0/                   0/                  0/               0/                0/                0/
          HN    N             NyN               HN       N                N N         HN      N          N yN              N     N
             HN-N         MNHN                  N HN                 N HN            MN N              N HN N                 Ny N
           -     NM                N  2           -                          NN        -y     NN
                NH2       -        NH 2        -      HN              M       H           N                  N                N
     HN     N          N      N          HN        N            N      N         HN    N            N    N          0     N
        HNYN            HN       N           HN yN               HN yN              HNYN             HN      N        MN-N
    H       NH2      H        NH2       H       HN,           H      HN         H      N          H      NIN,
 HN     N                NY              HN-N              HN      NM              NN                  NY         HNN
                                                                                                HN
    HN    N          HNyN               HN       N            HN      N         HN      N             HN N           HN     N
        NH2H             NH2H             .. N,     H              NH2              NH2                NNH2
          HN     N         N         N           HN      N              N    N        HN       N          HN     N            N    N
             HN y   N          HN       N           MN      N             MNHN                N HN           HN MNYN           HN   -N
                 NH2               NH2 NM2       0    N\                     NM2           --- N,        S       NH 2      S        NH2
      HN     N         HN       N                   NMNHN                   N      MN     N               NN             HNyN
         HN     N          MN      N           HN        N           N     -N        HN     -N          HN y      N        HN    -N
                           N NH2       S             NH2              .                   NH2      s         NH2      s         N,
                  HN    N             N      N           HN        N          H
                    HN yN              HN       N           HN      N            HN    N           HN      N          HN     N
                          NM2                NH 2               N                    NH2                NH 2              N,
                                                                        -84-

      C1                  C1                CI                   CI                Cl                 CI                  CI
                                           HNyN                HNN,              HNyN                 NYN                 N     N
     HN     N,            NN
        HN     N           HN     N           HN       N          HN     N           HN     N          HN        N           N    N
            NH2                 NH2              HN                  HN                  N                    N                 N
                  CN               N                    CI                   N'"NH                 C                      N    N
   C                      H2N      N    NH    CI                               NANH        CI                             N    N   H
                     HN    N                                     HN      N                                     HN     N
      HNYNY            HNNN                         HN              N                            N     N           HNYN
         HNYN              NI- 2                 CI    HNyN            HN                     C1 HNyN                                    Cl
              NH2                                           NH                                      'NN
                   C                                           C             HN                                           NN
        CI                    N     N            C1 CCI                              NH C       C        I                N    N NH
           ~-    N        H2N      N ! NHC,                                "   N)NH C1             ~                         H
                      HN    N                                     HNY,,             N                           HN     N,<           N
      HNY N              HNYN                       HN      NY        HNYN                     HNY N,,             HNyN
         HN      N          NH2                  CI    HNYN             HN                    CI HNyN                  N                 C1
              NH2                         C              HN
                                                                                         HN
                       C   HN1       CN       C                   H             CI                               I             I
                              H lN               C          NN          HCI                                NC              NA1N
                N         H2N     N     NH                                     N         C                                       H
            CN        HN     N           NH                       HNC1                 N              1         y    NyN         CN
      HN     N,          HNYN                                        HN N       HN      N
         HN      N          NH 2                 C1 HNHN                HN                           N    N            N
               N2                                        HN~ rH                  J      CI            N ,N                        N
        HN     N           N                         H                HNYN                      HN      NT"         HNYN
                                 Ni   N                  C1                  N- NH                   C1
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                          AL I
                                                                                                                               Nl H N
                                                  ,N
                                    H                                             'N
       N               HNY-N<                        N              HNY   N                     N                 HNY-N,,Y             N
       HN YN     I"    N N            N             HN     -N Y        HNYN                   N   Y        ,,       HN.-,N
          HN    -N           NH2                        HNYN             HN r                     HN-,N                               ci
              NH2                          ci              HNrC
[00115]      In other embodiments, 7-ring series compounds of Formula IV may be used in
connection with the compositions and methods of the disclosure. Substituent definitions, unless
otherwise indicated, are the same as provided with reference to Formula I.
                                                                    -85-

                                               R 12    R1 3
                                             R11           R14
                                              N         N
                                       R2,/    N               RN
                                                    R3      R4
                                                   IV
wherein:
        wherein R3, R4 , R5, R6, R7, R8 and R9 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl,
propyl or isopropyl;
        and wherein R1 and R2, and are independently selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., a C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl,
SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C4 to
C12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N, inlcuding a C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl
(e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
including a C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the
heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea);
optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally
substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl,
NH2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain
alkynyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH,
O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl);
        optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted
naphthyl); optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted); optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R1 and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
                                                  -86-

[00116]         In other embodiments, optional substitutions may include, e.g., OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S
alkyl, NH 2 , NH-alkyl. Further, an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, etc. may be substitued with an oxygen,
silicon, sulphur, etc. to form a heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, etc.
[00117]         In certain aspects, each of: R 2, R 3, R4, R5 , Rjj, R 12, R 13 and R 14 are independently
selected from:
           H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
and R1 is selected from:
           H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0
alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NI- 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain
or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or
optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted
alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted
with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl);
heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from
0, S, or N, including C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the
heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C3 to C 11
alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the
nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea); aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted
phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl); alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally
substituted); alkylheteroaryl;
           or R 1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[00118]         Exemplary compounds and substituents of R 1, R 2, R3, R4, R5, R11, R 12, R 13 and R 14 of
Formula IV are shown below. However, additional combinations of selections of substituents of
R 1, R 2 , R 3 , R 4 , R 5, Rij, R 12 , R 13 and R 14 are envisioned.
                                                            -87-

                                                                                        N       N       O-NN
                       N HN       NH2                    N   NH2            >1N                    NH2                     N H
HN    N     NH,       N     H                        NN                               H                                 H
                  H                                  H H                                                              H
       OH               N      NN                    N     N           0               N       N                N      N
 HO                   /N                 Il
                          H l N                       N  H                           NH         H                      H
                                                                                                                       N       '
                   / N- N
                   H,                                 H
                                       H2    H -N N N2 NN      N                 NH2     N N      NH2               N     N      H
           NH2    N'      N NNNNHN                            H N NH2                N       HN H                       N
                              HN NH       H   N    N NN N HN NN H NH2                 N
                                                                                      \H     N      NH2        \H                 2N NN
        HNH                   HN                    H                  HN                     HN                    HN
                   N-- NH2        N -       - H N'NN N NH N) NN N              -- H2-N -N        N'-! NN H 2 N N N H
                                HN/H               I HN        --.       H/               .  HN                 b4HN
                                       HN NH  N NH N N NN    HN N-N2   H NH2              N NH NH 2           - N H N
      N N NH2        '    N        NH2
    N 4    N4                   H                                   N     N                N       NN                    N
                                                                        H                    H                      H
                2
  HNN         H
             HH        -N     N     H  2     -N     H   N          -. N.-         H                         H
                                       N            H        HN         H     NH23     -       N3          NH      N       3
    N      N              N      N                >N
           NI..H          H         ..              H    NH             H            HN       H            N      H      NH
      V\     N
        N N--...    HN ,K      /-N'N,-'NH2      ,  H2N NH-     N8             N-.NN                  N-...   HNN         NH
         HH                                                    NN           N-.,    HN      N-..           N   N N N N N
                                  N>
                                                                         YN2         -NV -             HN
                                   /, H2 ' - 'Y 'N          -88-H

        N        N            N      N
     HN     N      NH2    -N     N     NH2    HN                 HN   N       NH2    -N     N    NH2      HN      N
                                                                                      0     H              0      H   I
                                               HN H               0   H
      HN H                 0     H
          Cl         OH         CI        OH       CI         OH     CI          OH       Cl         OH         CI        OH
                        OH           -      OH          -       OH           .     OH          -       OH                  OH
     N     N     N       H2N           N-    H2N          NH                  N      H2N      N           H2N         NH
        N       N             N      N           N      N           N      N             N     N                N    N
                  HO      OH            HO     OH           HO     OH          HO     OH         HO       OH          HO    OH
                 N  N               N     N           N        N          N       N         N      N                    NH
                      NN2N                 N      H2N     N      H                 N     H2N         N        HN
             N      N              N      N           N       N          N       N           N     N               N    N
                 JN-        HN   ~jN-
                                                0)
                                                          H2NH            N
                                                                           /
                                                                                     H2           N-        HN          NH
                                                           H    NHH       H                           NH.        H
       ~N      N    N-.      HyN       N N-.    H2N    N NH             N      N       H2 Ny       -      H   2  N>NH
                     >N-           NN            N       N          N       N         NH             N-       HN         NH
[00119]         In certain embodiments, the compounds of Formulas I, IA, II, III or IV may include an
asymmetric center or centers, and may be in the form of a composition of a racemic mixture, a
diastereoisomeric mixture, a single enantiomer, an enantiomeric diastereomer, a meso
compound, a pure epimer, or a mixture of epimers thereof, etc. Further, the compounds of
Formulas I, IA, II, III or IV may have one or more double bonds, and may be in a form of a
cis/trans, E/Z mixture or an E or Z geometric isomer thereof.
                                                                    -89-

[001201     The compounds of Formulas I, IA, II, III, and IV may also be prepared as a salt form,
e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salts, including suitable acid forms, e.g., salt forms selected
from hydrochloride, hydrobromide, acetate, propionate, butyrate, sulphate, hydrogen sulphate,
sulphite, carbonate, hydrogen carbonate, phosphate, phosphinate, oxalate, hemi-oxalate,
malonate, hemi-malonate, fumarate, hemi-fumarate, maleate, hemi-maleate, citrate, hemi-citrate,
tartrate, hemi-tartrate, aspartate, glutamate, etc.
[001211     In one embodiment, the compounds of the disclosure may be prepared as a three
component salt form including the components A, B, and C wherein:
         A is the protonated form of a natural or unnatural amino acid;
         B is the dianion of an acid; and
         C is the protonated form of a Compound of Formulas I, IA, II, III or IV.
 [00122]    In certain aspects, stoichiometric amounts of A, B, and C may be included wherein:
         A is the protonated form of a natural amino acid selected from alanine, aspartic acid,
         asparagine, arginine, glycine, glutamine, glutamic acid lysine, phenylalanine, tyrosine,
         serine, threonine, tryptophan, leucine, isoleucine, histidine, methionine, proline, cysteine,
         or cystine;
         B is the dianion of an acid selected from oxalic, malonic, citric, maleic, fumaric, tartaric,
         aspartic, glutamic acids and the like; and
         C is the protonated form of a compound of Formulas I, IA, II, III or IV.
Synthesis of the Compounds
[00123]     Compounds described herein may be synthesized using standard synthetic techniques
known to those of skill in the art or using methods known in the art in combination with methods
described herein. In additions, solvents, temperatures and other reaction conditions presented
herein may vary according to the practice and knowledge of those of skill in the art.
[00124]     The starting material used for the synthesis of compounds described herein can be
obtained from commercial sources, such as Aldrich Chemical Co. (Milwaukee, Wis.), Sigma
Chemical Co. (St. Louis, Mo.), or the starting materials can be synthesized. The compounds
described herein, and other related compounds having different substituents can be synthesized
using techniques and materials known to those of skill in the art, such as described, for example,
                                                  -90-

in March, ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4th Ed., (Wiley 1992); Carey and Sundberg,
ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4th Ed., Vols. A and B (Plenum 2000, 2001), and
Green and Wuts, PROTECTIVE GROUPS IN ORGANIC SYNTHESIS 3rd Ed., (Wiley 1999)
(all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety). General methods for the preparation
of the compounds as disclosed herein may be derived from known reactions in the field, and the
reactions may be modified by the use of appropriate reagents and conditions, as would be
recognized by the skilled person, for the introduction of the various moieties found in the
formulae as provided herein.
[00125]    Additional biguanide and related heterocyclic compounds and synthesis methods and
schemes for the compounds described herein can be found in U.S. Application Ser. No.
 12/593,479 (published as U.S. 2010/0130498); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/593,398 (published
as U.S. 2010/0184796); U.S. Pat. No. 7,829,299; U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/578,013
(published as U.S. 2010/0056621); U.S. Pat. No. 7,416,867; U.S. Application Ser. No.
 11/455,693 (published as U.S. 2007/0037212); U.S. Application Ser. No. 13/059,730 (published
as U.S. 2011/0143376), U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/996,670 (published as U.S. 2011/0311991),
U.S. Pat. No. 7,811,788; U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/182,942 (published as U.S.
2006/0019346); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/993,542 (published as U.S. 2011/0086138), U.S.
Application Ser. No. 12/373,235 (published as U.S. 2010/0055209); International Application
Ser. No. PCT/IL2007/000454 (published as WO 2007/116404); U.S. Application Ser. No.
10/472,056 (published as U.S. 2004/0138189); U.S. Pat. No. 5,891,919; U.S. Pat. No. 6,376,657;
U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/554,982 (published as U.S. 2007/0104805); U.S. Application Ser.
No. 11/926,745 (published as U.S. 2008/0108604); International Application Ser. No.
PCT/CA2009/001688 (published as WO 2010/060198); U.S. Application 'Ser. No. 12/735,557
(published as U.S. 2010/0330205); International Application Ser. No. PCT/CA2007/001066
(published as WO 2008/000063); U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/438,204 (published as U.S.
2006/0269617); U.S. Application Ser. No. 10/563,713 (published as U.S. 2006/0172020); U.S.
Application Ser. No. 10/902,352 (published as U.S. 2006/0024335); U.S. Application Ser. No.
10/538,038 (published as U.S. 2006/0275765), U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/555,617 (published
as U.S. 2008/0187936); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/739,264 (published as U.S.
2010/0316736); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/215,609 (published as U.S. 2009/0042813); U.S.
Application Ser. No. 11/893,088 (published as U.S. 2008/0050499); U.S. Pat. No. 7,807,204;
                                                -91-

U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/811,166 (published as U.S. 2008/0003268); U.S. Pat. No.
6,376,657; International Application Ser. No. PCT/US2011/041183 (published as WO
2011/163183); International Application Ser. No. PCT/EP2011/059814 (published as WO
2011/157692); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/790,292 (published as U.S. 2011/0293753);
International Application Ser. No. PCT/JP2009/071700 (published as WO 2010/076879); U.S.
Application Ser. No. 13/032,530 (published as U.S. 2011/0217394); International Application
Ser. No. PCT/EP201 1/000110 (published as WO 2011/085979); International Application Ser.
No. PCT/US2010/058467 (published as WO 2011/068814); U.S. Application Ser. No.
13/060,996 (published as U.S. 2011/0152361); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/09,253 (published
as U.S. 2011/0124609); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/687,962 (published as U.S.
2011/0119499); and International Application Ser. No. PCT/EP2010/004623 (published as WO
2011/012298); each of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
[00126]     Other known biguanide and related compounds include:
[00127]     Chlorhexidine, a compound with antiseptic properties:
                                         NHH   IN
[00128]     Cycloguanil, a compound with anti-malarial properties:
CtN                  NH2
           H2 N
[00129]    Polyhexamethylene biguanide, a compound with antiseptic properties:
      NH    hH
   N     N      N
   H     H      H
[00130]    A compound designated JPC-2067-B, known as Toxoplasma Gondi Inhibitor:
                                              - 92-

                                                                                                NH
                                                                                                     2
                                                                                  l             N    NH
                   FgCOa  H     H     HF                                3001
 FSCO          CI JPC-2056                      Invivo metabolism               JPC-2067-B
[00131]      These and other biguanide and related heterocyclic compounds are envisioned as
within the scope of the disclosure. In further embodiments, a biguanide and related heterocyclic
compound is metformin or a salt thereof.
Metformin
[001321      Metformin has low bioavailability in terms of circulating blood concentrations as
compared to many other orally administered drugs. For example, metformin is reported to have
an average systemic bioavailability of 30% to 60% while many comparably small molecules
have bioavailability of greater than 60%. See, e.g., Tucker et al., "Metformin kinetics in healthy
subjects and in patients with diabetes mellitus" Br. J. Clin. Pharmacol. 1981, 12(2) 235-246. It
has been reported that administration of metformin increases release of GLP- 1 from the L cells
located in the gut. However, GLP- 1 release from the L cells (and activation of enteroendocrine
cells) is triggered by the luminal signals on the epithelial aspect of the gut. There are no known
examples of blood-borne or circulating signals that can activate enteroendocrine cells to release
their hormonal contents. Thus, it is contemplated that metformin does not act through its
presence in the plasma circulation per se. Metformin may cause activation of enteroendocrine
cells (e.g., by binding to a bitter receptor on the L cell or other enteroendocrine cell), including
GLP- 1 release from L cells through an interaction with the luminal or epithelial aspect of L cells.
Minimizing systemic exposure
[00133]      Provided herein, in certain embodiments, are compositions of a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin or a salt thereof, adapted to minimize the systemic
bioavailability of the compound, e.g., by delivery to the gut. In some embodiments, the
compositions of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin or a salt thereof,
adapted for delivery to enteroendocrine cells described herein minimize metformin plasma
absorption in a subject. In other embodiments, the compositions of a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin or a salt thereof, minimize plasma Cmax and/or AUC
levels. In other embodiments, the compositions of a biguanide or related heterocyclic
                                                  - 93 -

compound, e.g., metformin or a salt thereof, have negligible metformin plasma absorption, Cmax
and/or AUC levels. It other embodiments, Cmax, and/or AUC levels of the biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound, e.g., metformin or a salt thereof, are what was previously considered
sub-therapeutic for the described compositions as compared to reported Cmax and/or AUC levels
of known formulations of the compounds.
[00134]    In preferred embodiments, the compositions described herein are adapted to reduce or
minimize systemic bioavailability of the compound, e.g., minimize the circulating plasma
concentration of the biguanide compound in the patient and/or reduce the average systemic
bioavailabilityof the compound, e.g., when compared to a immediate release composition having
an equivalent amount of the compound.          In some embodiments, the minimized circulating
plasma concentration is below about 5 [tg/mL, 4 [tg/mL, 3 gg/mL, 2 [tg/mL, 1 [tg/mL, 0.5
[tg/mL or 0.25 [tg/mL in subjects with normal or impaired renal function. In other embodiments,
an adapted compound composition provides 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, or 20% less relative
bioavailability of the compound compared to an immediate release composition having the same
amount of the compound.
[00135]    Negligible or sub-therapeutic metformin plasma Cmax and/or AUC levels include 50
%, 40 %, 30 %, 20 % and 10 % of reported Cmax and/or AUC levels of known metformin
formulations (e.g., GLUMETZA, GLUCOPHAGE, GLUCOPHAGE XR, RIOMET,
FORTAMET, OBIMET, GLUFORMIN, DIANBEN, DIABEX, DIAFORMIN, Metformin IR,
Metformin SR, and the like). For example, a known extended release metformin formulation,
GLUMETZA, has mean Cmax values that are 473  145, 868  223, 1171               297, and 1630 
399 ng/mL for single doses of 500, 1000, 500, and 2500 mg, respectively. For AUC, the mean
values for GLUMETZA are 3501 796, 6705  1918, 9299               2833, and 14161 4432 ng-hr/mL
for single doses of 500, 1000, 1500, and 2500 mg, respectively (GLUMETZA product label).
[001361    In further embodiments, the compositions of metformin or a salt thereof have reduced
average systemic bioavailability. Reduced average systemic bioavailability, in some
embodiments, is lower average systemic bioavailability as compared to an immediate release
metformin formulation (relative bioavailability) having an equivalent amount of metformin. In
other embodiments, reduced average systemic bioavailability is when the average systemic
bioavailability, e.g., relative bioavailability is less than 40%, 30%, less than 25%, less than 15%,
                                                   - 94-

less than 10% and less than 5%. In certain instances, the average systemic bioavailability is less
than 15%.
[00137]    To achieve these effects, delivery of metformin is designed for modified release that,
for example, is retained in the gastro-intestinal tract, and/or releases metformin dosages in
amounts that minimize plasma absorption. The delivery of metformin to one or more regions of
the intestine is via any known method including, e.g., oral, rectal, nasogastric tube, parenterally
injection such as intraluminal intestinal injection. In some instances, the delivery is oral. Oral
delivery of metformin compositions are described in the modified release formulations section
and include timed release systems, enteric coatings and pH dependent systems, gastro-retentive
systems, floating systems, bioadhesive systems, swelling systems and the like. In some
embodiments, the metformin compositions described herein utilize a multicomponent system
where metformin is delivered to several places in the gastrointestinal tract such as the duodenum,
jejunum, ileum, lower intestine or combinations thereof following administration. For example,
a metformin composition can deliver to the small intestine by use of immediate release and timed
or delayed (enteric) release components. Multicomponent systems of metformin compositions
can be in unitary dosage forms such as bi- or tri- or multiple-layer tablets or multi-particulate
forms such as encapsulated micro-tablets or as separate dosage forms, e.g., separate tablets taken
together or at a periodic interval.
[00138]     In some embodiments, a composition of metformin or a salt thereof adapted for
delivery to one or more regions of the intestine comprises two components for delivering
metformin where the first component is immediate release and the second component is an
immediate release or timed release covered with an enteric coating. The second component
releases after an onset desired pH, due to the enteric coating. pHs contemplated include about
pH 5.0, about pH 5.5, about pH 6.0, about pH 6.5 and about pH 7.0. After an onset of a desired
pH, the second component begins release. Second components that comprise immediate release
metformin in about 15 minutes, about 20 minutes, about 25 minutes or about 30 minutes after the
onset of the desired pH, while second components comprising timed, extended or slow release
over the course of a longer time period such as about 1 hour, about 2 hours, about 3 hours, about
4 hours, about 5 hours, about 6 hours, about 7 hours or about 8 hours. The exemplary two
component metformin delivery system can be, in some embodiments, a bilayer tablet. Three,
four and additional components are contemplated within the embodiments. For example, a third
                                                 -95-

or forth component may include a gastro-retentive component or one that delivers and releases
metformin specifically to the lower intestine.
 [001391    For compositions comprising metformin or a salt thereof, dosages of metformin can
range from about 1 mg to about 2000 mg, about 10 mg to about 1500 mg, about 50 mg to about
 1000 or about 100 mg or about 500 mg per day. In some instances, the dosage of metformin or a
salt thereof is about 2000 mg, about 1500 about 1000 mg, about 800 mg, about 600 mg, about
 500 mg, about 400 mg, about 300 mg, about 250 mg, about 200 mg, about 150 mg, about 100
mg, about 75 mg, about 50 mg, about 25 mg, about 10 mg or about I mg per day. In some
embodiments, the dosage of metformin or a salt thereof is less than 400 mg. In some
embodiments, the dosage of metformin or a salt thereof is 250 mg.
 [00140]    Salts of metformin include, but are not limited to, hydrochloride, phosphate, sulfate,
hydrobromide, salicylate, maleate, benzoate, succinnate, ethanesulfonate, fumarate, glycolate,
pamoate, oratate, acetate, isobutyrate, acetylsalicylate, nicotinic acid, adamantoate, zinc
chlorophylin, carboxylic acid, benzoic acid, dichloroacetic acid, theophylin-7-acetate, clofibrate,
tartate, oxalate, tannate and hydroxyl acid salts. In certain instances, the metformin salt is
metformin hydrochloride.
 [00141]    The compositions of metformin or a salt thereof adapted for delivery to one or more
regions of the intestine, in some embodiments, are administered or combined with additional
agents, such as anti-obesity and/or anti-diabetic agents described herein. Notable agents for
combinations with the metformin compositions described herein include DPP-IV inhibitors (e.g.,
sitagliptin, saxagliptin, berberine, vildagliptin, linagliptin, alogliptin, and the like),
thiazolidinediones (e.g., pioglitazone, rivoglitazone, rosiglitazone, troglitazone, and the like),
sulfonylureas (e.g., glipzide, glibenclamide (glyburide), gliquidone, glyclopyramide, glimepiride,
gliclazide, acetohexamide, carbutamide, chlorpropamide, tolbutamide, tolazamide, and the like),
and Dual PPAR agonists (aleglitazar, muraglitazar, tesaglitazar, and the like).
[001421     In further embodiments, a chemosensory receptor modifier is administered with a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to alter or change the activity of a receptor toward
the compound. In yet further embodiments a chemosensory receptor enhancer is administered
with a biguanide or related heterocyclic compoundto enhance, potentiate or multiply the effect of
the compound.       In certain instances, modifiers and/or enhancers are administered prior to
                                                  -96-

administration of a compound enhance, potentiate or multiply the effect of the compound. In
other instances, modifiers and/or enhancers are administered with a compound together to
enhance, potentiate or multiply the effect of the compound.
[00143]    Modulators and enhancers can be specific to a chemoreceptor type and/or multiple
chemoreceptor types. Specific chemoreceptor modulators and enhancers can include, but are not
limited to, umami receptor modulators and enhancers, sweet receptor modulators and enhancers,
bitter receptor modulators and enhancers, fat receptor modulators and enhancers, bile acid
receptor modulators and enhancers, sour receptor modulators and enhancers, and the like.
 [00144]    In some embodiments, a bitter receptor enhancer is selected from enhancer
compounds described herein or known in the art. Bitter receptor enhancers include, but are not
limited to, sweet receptor ligands in sub-bitter quantities, i.e., quantities that do not elicit a bitter
taste response.    In some embodiments, a bitter receptor enhancer is a silver salt. Silver salts
include silver acetate and silver lactate.
Combinations
[00145]     The biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds can be administered alone or in
combination with each other. Dosages for each biguanide or related heterocyclic compound can
be determined via methods known in the art. Maximal response doses and maximum tolerated
doses can be determined via animal and human experimental protocols as described herein.
Additional relative dosages, represented as a percent of maximal response or of maximum
tolerated dose, are easily obtained via the protocols.
[00146]    In an exemplary dose-response experiment, biguanide or related heterocyclic
compounds are individually administered in an animal model (e.g. diabetic or obese rat model) to
determine the optimum doses for each biguanide or related heterocyclic compound. biguanide
or related heterocyclic compounds are administered individually at increasing amounts
(mg/kg/min), where each subject is administered a set mg/kg/min dose and the dose is
maintained at this set level for a defined period. Blood samples are collected at frequent
intervals (e.g., every 1, 2, or 5 minutes) throughout the period and assayed for hormone
concentrations. Hormones assayed include CCK, GIP, GLP-1, oxyntomodulin, PYY, insulin, C
peptide, and GLP-2. 50% of maximal response dose and 50% of the maximum tolerated dose
are determined for each biguanide or related heterocyclic compound.
                                                 -97 -

[001471     In some embodiments, at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is
administered at a concentration that is 50% of the maximal response dose. In other
embodiments, at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is administered at a
concentration that is 50% of the maximum tolerated dose. biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound s can be administered as 5%, 10%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%,
60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 100%, of the maximum response or maximum
tolerated dose, inclusive of all integers therein.
 [001481     The combinations of biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds can be administered
in a single composition or in multiple compositions. Multiple compositions may be administered
simultaneously or at different times. The compositions may be administered in different delivery
forms (i.e., tablets, powders, capsules, gels, liquids, nutritional supplements, edible food
preparations (e.g., medical foods, bars, gels, sprinkles, gums, lozenges, candies, liquids, etc.) and
in any combination of such forms.
 [001491     In one non-limiting example, a tablet containing at least one biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound is administered simultaneously with another tablet containing at least one
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound to provide the desired dosage. In a further example,
the two tablets are administered at different times. In another non-limiting example, a tablet
containing the desired combination of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s) is
administered to provide the full dosage. Any combination of delivery forms, compositions, and
delivery times are contemplated herein.
[001501     The constituents of the compositions provided by the invention can be varied both
with respect to the individual constituents and relative proportions of the constituents.              In
embodiments, the relative proportion of the constituents is optimized to produce the desired
synergistic activity from the drug combination. For example, in a composition comprising, or a
method comprising administering, two constituents, e.g., two biguanide or related heterocyclic
compounds, or as another nonlimiting example, a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
and a chemosensory receptor ligand, the constituents can be present in ratios of or about, e.g.,
 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:8, 1:9, 1:10, 1:15, 1:20, 1:25, 1:30, 1:35, 1:40, 1:45, 1:50, 1:60,
 1:70, 1:80, 1:90, 1:100, 1:200, 1:300, 1:400, 1:500, 1:1000, etc. In a composition comprising, or
a method comprising administering, three constituents, for example two biguanide or related
                                                    -98-

heterocyclic compounds, and a metabolized chemosensory receptor ligand, the constituents can
be present in ratios of or about, e.g., 1:1:1, 2:1:1, 2:2:1, 3:1:1, 3:3:1, 3:2:2, 3:3:2, 3:2:1, 4:1:1,
4:4:1, 4:2:2, 4:4:2, 4:2:3, 4:3:3, 4:4:3, 4:2:1, 5:1:1, 5:5:1, 5:2:1, 5:3:1, 5:3:2, 5:3:4, 5:5:2, 5:5:3,
5:5:4, 10:1:1, 10:10:1, etc.
 [00151]    When more than one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is used in
combination with at least one other chemosensory receptor ligand or compound, it is understood
that the combination treatment regimen encompasses treatment regimens in which administration
of one compound is initiated prior to, during, or after treatment with a second or additional agent
in the combination, and continues until any time during treatment with any other agent in the
combination or after termination of treatment with any other agent. Treatment regimens also
include those in which the agents being used in combination are administered simultaneously or
at different times and/or at decreasing or increasing intervals during the treatment period.
Combination treatment includes periodic treatments that start and stop at various times to assist
with the clinical management of the patient.
Indications
 [00152]    Among the conditions that are contemplated for treating using the compositions and
methods of the embodiments herein are metabolic syndrome, diabetes type I, diabetes type II,
obesity, binge eating, undesired food cravings, food addiction, a desire to reduce food intake or
to lose weight or maintain weight loss, desire to maintain healthy weight, desire to maintain
normal blood glucose metabolism, anorexia, pre-diabetes, glucose intolerance, gestational
diabetes mellitus (GDM), impaired fasting glycemia, (IFG), post-prandial hyperglycemia,
accelerated gastric emptying (dumping syndrome), delayed gastric emptying, dyslipidemia, post
prandial dyslipidemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, post hypertriglyceridemia, insulin
resistance, bone loss disorders, osteopenia, osteoporosis, muscle wasting disease, muscle
degenerative disorders, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFL), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), immune disorders of the gut (e.g., celiac
disease), bowel irregularity, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), or inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD), including, e.g., ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, and short bowel syndrome, peripheral
neuropathy (e.g., diabetic neuropathy). In certain embodiments, the methods comprise treating a
subject having sadness, stress, grief, anxiety, anxiety disorder (e.g., generalized anxiety disorder,
                                                 -99-

obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder or social anxiety
disorder or a mood disorder (e.g., depression, bipolar disorder, dysthymic disorder and
cyclothymic disorder) by administering a composition comprising a biguanides or related
heterocyclic compositions provided herein. In certain embodiments, the methods comprise
methods of inducing feelings of happiness, well-being or contentment in subjects by
administering a composition comprising biguanide or related heterocyclic composition provided
herein.
 [00153]   Additionally, the compositions and methods described herein may be used for the
dietary management of conditions listed above. In some embodiments, the compositions and
methods provided herein are indicated for treatment, prevention and or maintenance of a
metabolic disorder, disease or defect. Metabolic disorders, diseases or defects can include
disorders, diseases or defects in energy homeostasis and disorders, diseases or defects in fuel
homeostasis.
 [00154]   In certain embodiments, the compositions and methods provided herein are indicated
for treatment, prevention and or maintenance of disorders, diseases and defects associated with
energy homeostasis. Energy homeostasis generally relates to the signally pathways, molecules
and hormones associated with food intake and energy expenditure. Disorders, diseases and
defects associated with energy homeostasis include but are not limited to diabetes type I,
diabetes type II, prediabetes, impaired fasting glycemia (IFG), impaired post-prandial glucose,
and gestational diabetes. In some instances the compositions and methods provided herein are
indicated for treatment, prevention and or maintenance of diabetes type I or type II.
[00155]    In certain embodiments, the compositions and methods provided herein are indicated
for treatment, prevention and or maintenance of disorders, diseases and defects associated with
fuel homeostasis. Disorders, diseases and defects associated with fuel homeostasis include but is
not limited to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFL), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
hyperlipidemia, post hypertriglyceridemia, hypertriglyceridemia, insulin resistance and
polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
[00156]    The embodiments also provide compositions and methods useful for treating
conditions in which an increase in insulin secretion or control of glucose concentrations resulting
from modulation of enteroendocrine cell hormones (e.g., GLP-1 or GIP) would be beneficial.
                                                -100-

These conditions include, but are not limited to, metabolic syndrome, diabetes type 1, diabetes
type II, gestational diabetes, glucose intolerance, and related conditions including those in which
patients suffer from glucose intolerance.
[001571     The embodiments also provide compositions and methods for modulating growth
(proliferation), and/or generation (neogenesis), and/or prevention of cell death (apoptosis) of
insulin producing and secreting cells (Beta cells) through the release of neural and hormonal
signals emanating from the gut in response to luminal chemosensory stimulation. Gut hormones
such as GLP-1, PYY, GLP-2 and gastrin have all been implicated in the process of beta cell
preservation or beta cell mass expansion. In one aspect, chemosensory stimulation provides a
hormonal signal coupled to a neural signal. The hormonal signal can occur before, after or at
similar timeframes as the neural signal.
 [00158]    The embodiments also provide compositions and methods for treating conditions in
which appetite suppression resulting from modulation of, e.g., PYY, oxyntomodulin, and/or
CCK, would be beneficial. These conditions include, but are not limited to, obesity, binge
eating, undesired food cravings, a desire to reduce food intake or to lose weight or maintain
weight loss, and related conditions.
 [00159]    Further provided are compositions and methods for treating conditions in which
proliferation of gut cells resulting from modulation of, e.g., GLP-2, would be beneficial, such as,
short bowel syndrome, Crohn's disease, inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis, and other
conditions resulting in bowel damage, including osteoporosis.
Methods of Treatment
Disorders of Glucose Metabolism
[00160]     The embodiments described herein provide compositions and methods for treating and
preventing disorders of glucose metabolism and their associated conditions.
[00161]     For example, provided herein are methods for treating mammalian subjects with
diabetes, including primary essential diabetes such as Type I Diabetes or Type II Diabetes
(NIDDM) and secondary nonessential diabetes, comprising administering to the subject at least
one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound as described herein. In accordance with the
method of this invention a symptom of diabetes or the chance of developing a symptom of
                                                -101-

diabetes, such as atherosclerosis, obesity, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease,
nephropathy, neuropathy, retinopathy, foot ulceration and cataracts, each such symptom being
associated with diabetes, can be reduced.
 [00162]    The methods and compositions provided by the invention are useful for preventing or
ameliorating diseases and symptoms associated with hyperglycemia and insulin resistance or low
insulin concentrations. While a cluster of signs and symptoms associated may coexist in an
individual patient, it many cases only one symptom may dominate, due to individual differences
in vulnerability of the many physiological systems affected by insulin resistance. Nonetheless,
since hyperglycemia and insulin resistance are major contributors to many disease conditions,
agents that address these cellular and molecular defects are useful for prevention or amelioration
of virtually any symptom in any organ system that may be due to, or exacerbated by
hyperglycemia and insulin resistance.
 [001631    Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of metabolic abnormalities including abdominal
obesity, insulin resistance, glucose intolerance, diabetes, hypertension and dyslipidemia. These
abnormalities are known to be associated with an increased risk of vascular events.
 [001641    In addition to the metabolic disorders related to insulin resistance indicated above,
disease symptoms secondary to hyperglycemia also occur in patients with NIDDM. These
include nephropathy, peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy, microvascular disease, ulceration of the
extremities, and consequences of nonenzymatic glycosylation of proteins, e.g. damage to
collagen and other connective tissues. Attenuation of hyperglycemia reduces the rate of onset
and severity of these consequences of diabetes. Because compositions and methods of the
invention help to reduce hyperglycemia in diabetes, they are useful for prevention and
amelioration of complications of chronic hyperglycemia.
 [00165]    Elevated triglyceride and free fatty acid concentrations in blood affect a substantial
fraction of the population and are an important risk factor for atherosclerosis and myocardial
infarction. Provided herein are compositions and methods useful for reducing circulating
triglycerides and free fatty acids in hyperlipidemic patients. Hyperlipidemic patients often also
have elevated blood cholesterol concentrations, which also increase the risk of cardiovascular
disease. Cholesterol-lowering drugs such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ("statins") can be
administered to hyperlipidemic patients in addition to biguanide or related heterocyclic
                                                 - 102-

compound compositions of the invention, optionally incorporated into the same pharmaceutical
composition.
                                                                                         also known as
[001661     A substantial fraction of the population is affected by fatty liver disease,
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH); NASH is often associated with obesity and diabetes.
Hepatic steatosis, the presence of droplets of triglycerides with hepatocytes, predisposes the liver
to chronic inflammation (detected in biopsy samples as infiltration of inflammatory leukocytes),
which can lead to fibrosis and cirrhosis. Fatty liver disease is generally detected by observation
of elevated serum concentrations of liver-specific enzymes such as the transaminases ALT and
AST, which serve as indices of hepatocyte injury, as well as by presentation of symptoms which
include fatigue and pain in the region of the liver, though definitive diagnosis often requires a
biopsy. The anticipated benefit is a reduction in liver inflammation and fat content, resulting in
attenuation, halting, or reversal of the progression of NASH toward fibrosis and cirrhosis.
[001671     Hypoinsulinemia is a condition wherein lower than normal amounts of insulin
circulate throughout the body and wherein obesity is generally not involved. This condition
includes Type I diabetes.
[001681     Type 2 Diabetes or abnormal glucose metabolism may be caused by a variety of
factors and may manifest heterogeneous symptoms. Previously, Type 2 Diabetes was regarded
as a relatively distinct disease entity, but current understanding has revealed that Type 2 Diabetes
(and its associated hyperglycemia or dysglycemia) is often a manifestation of a much broader
underlying disorder, which includes the metabolic syndrome as noted above. This syndrome is
sometimes referred to as Syndrome X, and is a cluster of cardiovascular disease risk factors that,
in addition to glucose intolerance, includes hyperinsulinaemia, dyslipidaemia, hypertension,
visceral obesity, hypercoagulability, and microalbuminuria.
[001691     Also provided herein are compositions and methods for treating obesity, comprising
administering to the subject at least one biguanide or related heterocyclic compound as described
herein in an amount effective to treat the condition. The agent can be administered orally, and
alternatively, other routes of administration that can be used in accordance with this invention
include rectally, and parenterally, by injection (e.g., by intraluminal intestinal injection).
[00170]     Both human and non-human mammalian subjects can be treated in accordance with
the methods of this invention. In embodiments, the present invention provides compositions and
                                                  - 103 -

methods for preventing or treating diabetes in a wide range of subject mammals, in particular, a
human patient that has, has had, is suspected of having, or who is pre-disposed to developing
diabetes. Diabetes mellitus is selected from the group consisting of insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus (IDDM or type I diabetes) and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM, or
type II diabetes). Examples of disorders related to diabetes mellitus have been described and
include, but are not limited to, impaired glucose tolerance (IGT); maturity-onset diabetes of
youth (MODY); leprechaunism (insulin receptor mutation), tropical diabetes, diabetes secondary
to a pancreatic disease or surgery; diabetes associated with a genetic syndrome (e.g., Prader
Willi syndrome); pancreatitis; diabetes secondary to endocrinopathies; adipositas; and metabolic
syndrome (syndrome X).
[00171]     Diabetic subjects appropriate for treating using the compositions and methods
provided by the invention can be easily recognized by the physician, and are characterized by,
e.g., fasting hyperglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance, glycosylated hemoglobin, and, in some
instances, ketoacidosis associated with trauma or illness. Hyperglycemia or high blood sugar is a
condition in which an excessive amount of glucose circulates in the blood plasma. This is
generally a blood glucose level of 10+ mmol/L, but symptoms and effects may not start to
become noticeable until later numbers such as 15-20+ mmol/L. NIDDM patients have an
abnormally high blood glucose concentration when fasting and delayed cellular uptake of
glucose following meals or after a diagnostic test known as the glucose tolerance test. NIDDM is
diagnosed based on recognized criteria (American Diabetes Association, Physician's Guide to
Insulin-Dependent (Type I) Diabetes, 1988; American Diabetes Association, Physician's Guide
to Non-Insulin-Dependent (Type II) Diabetes, 1988). The optimal dose of a particular biguanide
or related heterocyclic compound composition for a particular subject can be determined in the
clinical setting by a skilled clinician.
Chronic Kidney Disease, Diabetic Nephropathy, Macular Degeneration and Diabetes-Associated
Conditions
[00172]     The compositions and methods provided herein can be used to prevent or treat kidney
diseases. Diabetes is the most common cause of chronic kidney disease and kidney failure,
accounting for nearly 44 percent of new cases. Even when diabetes is controlled, the disease can
lead to chronic kidney disease and kidney failure. Most people with diabetes do not develop
                                                -104-

chronic kidney disease that is severe enough to progress to kidney failure. Nearly 24 million
people in the United States have diabetes, and nearly 180,000 people are living with kidney
failure as a result of diabetes. High blood pressure, or hypertension, is a major factor in the
development of kidney problems in people with diabetes.
[001731     Accumulation of the glomerular mesangial extracellular matrix (ECM) leading to
glomerulosclerosis is a common finding in diabetic nephropathy and other chronic kidney
diseases. Several lines of evidence indicate that ECM accumulation in such chronic renal
diseases results from both increased synthesis and decreased degradation of ECM components
and it is widely accepted that ECM degradation in glomeruli and glomerular cells is mediated by
a plasminogen activator-plasmin-matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP)-2 cascade. In addition, a
variety of studies have reported decreased plasminogen activator (PA) activity, decreased
plasmin activity, or increased concentrations of PA inhibitor I (PAI-1; the major PA inhibitor),
in glomeruli obtained from animals with experimentally induced glomerular injuries known to
result in mesangial matrix accumulation (Baricos, et al., "Extracellular Matrix Degradation by
Cultured Mesangial Cells: Mediators and Modulators" (2003) Exp. Biol. Med. 228:1018-1022).
[00174]     Macular degeneration (AMD) is the loss of photoreceptors in the portion of the central
retina, termed the macula, responsible for high-acuity vision. Degeneration of the macula is
associated with abnormal deposition of extracellular matrix components and other debris in the
membrane between the retinal pigment epithelium and the vascular choroid. This debris-like
material is termed drusen. Drusen is observed with a funduscopic eye examination. Normal eyes
may have maculas free of drusen, yet drusen may be abundant in the retinal periphery. The
presence of soft drusen in the macula, in the absence of any loss of macular vision, is considered
an early stage of AMD.
[00175]     Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) commonly occurs in macular degeneration in
addition to other ocular disorders and is associated with proliferation of choroidal endothelial
cells, overproduction of extracellular matrix, and formation of a fibrovascular subretinal
membrane. Retinal pigment epithelium cell proliferation and production of angiogenic factors
appears to effect choroidal neovascularization.
[001761     Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is an ocular disorder that develops in diabetes due to
thickening of capillary basement membranes and lack of contact between pericytes and
                                                -105-

endothelial cells of the capillaries. Loss of pericytes increases leakage of the capillaries and leads
to breakdown of the blood-retina barrier.
[00177]    Proliferative vitreoretinopathy is associated with cellular proliferation of cellular and
fibrotic membranes within the vitreous membranes and on the surfaces of the retina. Retinal
pigment epithelium cell proliferation and migration is common with this ocular disorder. The
membranes associated with proliferative vitreoretinopathy contain extracellular matrix
components such as collagen types I, II, and IV and fibronectin, and become progressively
fibrotic.
 [00178]   Compositions of the embodiments described herein can be, as needed, administered in
combination with one or more standard therapeutic treatments known in the art. For example, for
treatment of diabetic nephropathy, compounds of the present invention can be administered in
combination with, for example, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBS) or any
other conventional therapy such as, for example, glucose management.
Obesity and Eating Disorders
 [00179]   Further provided herein are compositions and methods that can be used for weight loss
or to prevent or treat obesity. Central obesity, characterized by its high waist to hip ratio, is an
important risk for metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome, as described above, is a
combination of medical disorders which often includes diabetes mellitus type 2, high blood
pressure, high blood cholesterol, and triglyceride concentrations (Grundy SM (2004), J. Clin.
Endocrinol. Metab. 89(6): 2595-600).       Obesity and other eating disorders are described in, e.g.,
U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009/0062193, "Compositions and Methods for the Control, Prevention
and Treatment of Obesity and Eating Disorders."
[00180]    "Overweight" and "obesity" are both labels for ranges of weight that are greater than
what is generally considered healthy for a given height. The terms also identify ranges of weight
that have been shown to increase the likelihood of certain diseases and other health problems.
An adult who has a BMI of between 25 and 25.9 is generally considered overweight. An adult
who has a BMI of 30 or higher is generally considered obese. However, anyone who needs or
wishes to reduce body weight or prevent body weight gain can be considered to be overweight or
obese. Morbid obesity typically refers to a state in which the BMI is 40 or greater. In
embodiments of the methods described herein, subjects have a BMI of less than about 40. In.
                                                 -106-

embodiments of the methods described herein, subjects have a BMI of less than about 35. In
embodiments of the methods described herein, subjects have a BMI of less than about 35 but
greater than about 30. In other embodiments, subjects have a BMI of less than about 30 but
greater than about 27. In other embodiments, subjects have a BMI of less than about 27 but
greater than about 25. In embodiments, the subject may be suffering from or be susceptible to a
condition associated with eating such as binge eating or food cravings.
[001811    Conditions, disorders or diseases relating to mental health, such as sadness, stress,
grief, anxiety, anxiety disorder (e.g., generalized anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive
disorder, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder or social anxiety disorder or a mood
disorder (e.g., depression, bipolar disorder, dysthymic disorder and cyclothymic disorder), may
be diagnosed by mental health professionals. Similarly, measures of feelings of happiness, well
being or contentment may be made by mental health professionals.
[001821    A "subject' may include any mammal, including humans. A "subject" may also
include other mammals kept as pets or livestock (e.g., dogs, cats, horses, cows, sheep, pigs,
goats). Subjects who may benefit from the methods provided herein may be overweight or
obese; however, they may also be lean. Subjects who may benefit from the methods provided
herein may be desirous of losing weight or may have an eating disorder, such as binge eating, or
an eating condition, such as food cravings. Subjects who may benefit from the methods provided
herein may be desirous of modifying food preferences. They may have a metabolic disorder or
condition in addition to these conditions. Exemplary metabolic disorders include diabetes,
metabolic syndrome, insulin-resistance, and dyslipidemia. Subjects can be of any age.
Accordingly, these disorders can be found in young adults and adults (e.g., those aged 65 or
under) as well as infants, children, adolescents, and the elderly (e.g., those over the age of 65).
[001831    By "metabolic rate" is meant the amount of energy liberated/expended per unit of
time. Metabolism per unit time can be estimated by food consumption, energy released as heat,
or oxygen used in metabolic processes. It is generally desirable to have a higher metabolic rate
when one wants to lose weight. For example, a person with a high metabolic rate may be able to
expend more energy (and bum more calories) to perform an activity than a person with a low
metabolic rate for that activity.
                                                 -107-

[00184]    As used herein, "lean mass" or "lean body mass" refers to muscle and bone. Lean
body mass does not necessarily indicate fat free mass. Lean body mass contains a small
percentage of fat (roughly 3%) within the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord), marrow
of bones, and internal organs. Lean body mass is measured in terms of density. Methods of
measuring fat mass and lean mass include, but are not limited to, underwater weighing, air
displacement plethysmograph, x-ray, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scans, MRIs
and CT scans. In one embodiment, fat mass and lean mass is measured using underwater
weighing.
 [00185]    By. "fat distribution" is meant the location of fat deposits in the body. Such locations
of fat deposition include subcutaneous, visceral and ectopic fat depots.
 [00186]    By "subcutaneous fat" is meant the deposit of lipids just below the skin's surface. The
amount of subcutaneous fat in a subject can be measured using any method available for the
measurement of subcutaneous fat. Methods of measuring subcutaneous fat are known in the art,
for example, those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,530,886.
 [00187]    By "visceral fat" is meant the deposit of fat as intra-abdominal adipose tissue. Visceral
fat surrounds vital organs and can be metabolized by the liver to produce blood cholesterol.
Visceral fat has been associated with increased risks of conditions such as polycystic ovary
syndrome, metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases.
[00188]    By "ectopic fat storage" is meant lipid deposits within and around tissues and organs
that constitute the lean body mass (e.g., skeletal muscle, heart, liver, pancreas, kidneys, blood
vessels). Generally, ectopic fat storage is an accumulation of lipids outside classical adipose
tissue depots in the body.
[00189]    Fat mass can be expressed as a percentage of the total body mass. In some aspects, the
fat mass is reduced by at least 1%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, or at least
25% over the course of a treatment. In one aspect, the subject's lean mass is not decreased over
the course of a treatment.
[00190]    In another aspect, the subject's lean mass is maintained or increased over the course of
a treatment. In another aspect, the subject is on a reduced calorie diet or restricted diet. By
"reduced calorie diet" is meant that the subject is ingesting fewer calories per day than compared
                                                 -108-

to the same subject's normal diet. In one instance, the subject is consuming at least 50 fewer
calories per day. In other instances, the subject is consuming at least 100, 150 200, 250, 300,
400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000 fewer calories per day. In some embodiments, the method
involves the metabolism of visceral fat or ectopic fat or both at a rate of at least about 5%, 10%,
 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, or 50%, greater than for subcutaneous fat. In one aspect, the
methods result in a favorable fat distribution. In one embodiment, favorable fat distribution is an
increased ratio of subcutaneous fat to visceral fat, ectopic fat, or both. In one aspect, the method
involves an increase in lean body mass, for example, as a result of an increase in muscle cell
mass. In one embodiment, the amount of subcutaneous fat is reduced in a subject by at least
about 5%. In certain embodiments, the amount of subcutaneous fat is reduced by at least about
 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30% 40%, or 50% compared to the subject prior to administration of a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition.
 [001911    The methods described herein can be used to reduce the amount of visceral fat in a
subject. In one instance, the visceral fat is reduced in a subject by at least about 5%. In other
instances, the visceral fat is reduced in a subject by at least about 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%
40%, or 50% compared to the subject prior to administration of a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound composition. Visceral fat can be measured through any means available
to determine the amount of visceral fat in a subject. Such methods include, for example,
abdominal tomography by means of CT scanning and MRI. Other methods for determining
visceral fat are described, for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,864,415, 6,850,797, and 6,487,445.
 [00192]    In one embodiment, a method for preventing the accumulation of ectopic fat or
reducing the amount of ectopic fat in a subject is provided, wherein the method comprises
administering, to a subject in need thereof, a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
composition effective to prevent accumulation of ectopic fat or to reduce the amount of ectopic
fat in the subject. It is understood that a treatment can be a series of individual doses, or a
treatment regimen, provided to the subject over a period of time. In one instance, the amount of
ectopic fat is reduced in a subject by at least about 5% compared to the untreated subject. In
other instances, the amount of ectopic fat is reduced by at least about 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%
40%, or 50%. Alternatively, the amount of ectopic fat is proportionally reduced 5%, 10%, 15%,
20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or 100% in comparison to subcutaneous fat
                                                 -109-

in a subject. Ectopic fat can be measured in a subject using any method available for measuring
ectopic fat.
                                                                                     e.g., waist
[001931     In another embodiment, methods for altering anthropometric parameters,
circumference, hip circumference, and waist-to-hip ratio are provided. Waist circumference is a
measure of abdominal obesity. In one embodiment, methods for reducing waist circumference of
a subject are provided, wherein the method comprises administering, to a subject in need thereof,
a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition in an amount effective to reduce the
waist circumference of the subject. In one embodiment, the waist circumference of the subject is
reduced by at least about 1%. In certain embodiments, the waist circumference of the subject is
reduced by at least about 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%. 9% or 10% compared to the subject
prior to administration of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition provided
herein. In one embodiment, the waist circumference of the subject is reduced by at least about 1
cm. In other embodiments, the waist circumference of the subject is reduced by at least about 2
cm, 3 cm, 4 cm, 5 cm, or 6 cm compared to the subject prior to administration of a biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound composition.
 [001941    In another embodiment, methods for reducing hip circumference of a subject are
provided, wherein the method comprises administering, to a subject in need thereof, a biguanide
or related heterocyclic compound composition provided herein in an amount effective to reduce
the hip circumference of the subject. In one embodiment, the hip circumference of the subject is
reduced by at least about 1%. In certain embodiments, the waist circumference of the subject is
reduced by at least about 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, or 6% compared to the subject prior to administration
of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition. In one embodiment, the waist
circumference of the subject is reduced by at least about 1 cm. In certain embodiments, the waist
circumference of the subject is reduced by at least about 2 cm, 3 cm, 4 cm, 5 cm, or 6 cm
compared to the subject prior to administration of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
composition.
 [001951    Also provided are methods to reduce weight in a morbidly obese subject by first
reducing the subject's weight to a level below that of being morbidly obese, then administering
an effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition to further
reduce the subject's weight. Methods for reducing a subject's weight to being below that of
                                                -110-

morbid obesity include reducing caloric intake, increasing physical activity, drug therapy,
bariatric surgery, such as gastric bypass surgery, or any combinations of the preceding methods.
In one aspect, administering the treatment results in reduced caloric intake, which further reduces
the weight of the subject. In another embodiment, methods are provided for reducing the body
mass index (BMI) in a subject having a BMI of 40 or less by administering a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound composition in an amount and regimen effective to further reduce the
subject's weight. In another embodiment, methods are provided for reducing the body mass index
(BMI) in a subject having a BMI of 35 or less by administering a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound composition in an amount and regimen effective to further reduce the
subject's weight.
[00196]     In embodiments, methods for reducing the risk of developing metabolic disorders are
provided, where the method comprises administering to the subject a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound composition in an amount effective to reduce the weight or control the
blood glucose of a subject. Also provided herein, are methods for maintaining a healthy or
normal weight and/or glucose concentrations, where the method comprises administering to the
subject a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition in an amount effective
maintaining a healthy or normal weight and/or glucose concentrations.
[00197]     In another embodiment, methods for controlling or modifying eating behaviors are
provided, wherein the methods comprise administering, to a subject in need thereof, a biguanide
or related heterocyclic compound composition effective to control or modify an eating behavior
by the subject. In one embodiment, methods for controlling binge eating are provided, where the
methods comprise administering, to a subject in need thereof, a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound composition in an amount effect to control or curb binge eating by the subject. In one
embodiment, a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition is administered at times
of the day when the subject is most likely to binge eat. In one aspect, binge eating is
characterized by 1) eating, in a discrete period of time (e.g., within any 2-hour period), an
amount of food that is definitely larger than most people would eat during a similar period of
time and under similar circumstances and 2) a sense of lack of control over eating during the
episode (e.g., a feeling that one cannot stop eating or control what or how much one is eating).
The reduction of binge eating includes a reduction in the frequency of binge eating episodes, the
duration of binge eating episodes, the total amount consumed during a binge eating episode,
                                                -111-

difficulty in resisting the onset of a binge eating episode, and any combination thereof, as
compared to as compared to such frequency, duration, amount and resistance in the absence of
the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition. For example, in one embodiment,
a method may comprise a reduction in the frequency of binge eating episodes. In another
embodiment, a method may comprise a reduction in the duration of binge eating episodes. In yet
another embodiment, a method may comprise a reduction in the total amount consumed during a
binge-eating episode. In yet another embodiment, a method may comprise a reduction in
difficulty resisting the onset of a binge-eating episode.
[00198]     Some of the signs of binge eating include eating large amounts of food when not
physically hungry, rapid eating, hiding of food because the person feels embarrassed about how
much he or she is eating, eating until uncomfortably full, or. any combination thereof. Many
binge eaters are emotional eaters, i.e. their binge eating is triggered by their emotional state (e.g.,
some binge eaters eat when they are sad, some eat when they are happy, and some eat when they
are under stress). A large number of binge eaters suffer from anxiety disorders, such as
obsessive-compulsive disorder; impulse control problems; or personality disorders, such as
borderline personality disorder or depression. In one embodiment, the binge eating is in response
to stressed conditions. Other binge eaters are substance abusers, such as drug abusers or alcohol
abusers. Not everyone who has a binge eating disorder is overweight, such as those binge eaters
diagnosed with bulimia.
[00199]     Subjects who binge eat often do so at particular times of the day, and thus treatment
should be adjusted according to when the subject is most likely to binge eat. For example, if the
subject binge eats mostly after 7 p.m. at night, the subject should be administered a biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound composition at or shortly before 7 p.m. In one embodiment, the
subject is administered a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition at the time
they are susceptible to binge eating. In certain embodiments, the subject is administered a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition at least about 5 minutes, at least about
15 minutes, at least about 30 minutes, at least about 45 minutes, at least about 1 hour, at least
about 1 hour and 30 minutes, or at least about 2 hours before they are susceptible to binge eating.
An effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition in this
embodiment is an amount effective to curb or control the subject's desire to binge eat. Therefore,
the effective amount of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition will change
                                                 -112-

dependent upon the subject and the level of their desire to binge eat. Furthermore, if a subject's
desire to binge eat is less at one point in the day than at another, the dosage can be adjusted
accordingly to provide a lower dose at the times of the day the subject has a lower desire to binge
eat, and to provide a higher dose at the times of the day the subject has a higher desire to binge
eat. In one embodiment, the subject is administered a peak dosage of a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound composition at the time they have a high desire to binge eat. In certain
embodiments, the subject is administered a peak dosage of a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound composition at least about 5 minutes, at least about 15 minutes, at least about 30
minutes, at least about 45 minutes, at least about I hour, at least about I hour and 30 minutes, or
at least about 2 hours before they have a high desire to binge eat.
[00200]     In another embodiment, methods for modifying food preferences in a subject are
provided, wherein methods comprise administering, to a subject in need thereof, a biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound composition in an amount effective to modify food preferences in
the subject. The chemosensory receptor targeted by a composition can influence the subject's
desire to eat the corresponding food.
[00201]     The modifications in food preferences may include a decrease in a preference for such
foods, a decrease in the amount of intake of such foods, an enhancement of a preference of one
food type over another food type, changes in frequency of cravings for such foods, duration of
cravings for such foods, intensity of cravings for such foods, difficulty in resisting cravings for
such foods, frequency of eating in response to cravings for such foods, and any combination
thereof, as compared to such frequency, duration, intensity, or resistance in the absence of
treatment. In yet another embodiment, a method may comprise reducing a subject's preference
for sweet foods, savory foods, high fat foods, salty foods, sour foods, and any combination
thereof.
[002021     In one embodiment, a method may comprise reducing a subject's frequency of
cravings for sweet foods, savory foods, high fat foods, salty foods, sour foods, and any
combination thereof. In another embodiment, a method may comprise reducing a subject's
duration of cravings for sweet foods savory foods, high fat foods, salty foods, sour foods, and
any combination thereof, etc. In yet another embodiment, a method may comprise reducing a
subject's intensity of cravings for sweet foods, savory foods, high fat foods, salty foods, sour
                                                 -113-

foods, and any combination thereof. In yet another embodiment, a method may comprise
reducing a subject's difficulty in resisting cravings for sweet foods, savory foods, high fat foods,
salty foods, sour foods, and any combination thereof. In yet another embodiment, a method may
comprise reducing a subject's frequency of eating in response to cravings for sweet foods, savory
foods, high fat foods, salty foods, sour foods, and any combination thereof. In yet another
embodiment, a method may comprise reducing a subject's intake of sweet foods, savory foods,
high fat foods, salty foods, sour foods, and any combination thereof
Treatment of Bowel Damage
 [00203]    The compositions and methods provided herein can be used for the treatment of short
bowel syndrome and compromised intestinal function (e.g., small bowel resection, colitis,
enteritis, inflammatory bowel syndrome, ischemic bowel, and chemotherapeutic injury to the
intestine). Short bowel syndrome refers to the collection of symptoms caused by intestinal
resection. Its symptoms include intractable diarrhea, dehydration, malabsorption of
macronutrients, weight loss, malabsorption of vitamins and trace elements and malnutrition.
GLP-2 is known to slow gastric emptying, increase intestinal transit time and inhibit sham
feeding-induced gastric acid secretion. Patients with jejunostomy often have impaired meal
stimulated GLP-2 responses, and thus impaired absorption. Administration of GLP-2 in patients
with jejunostomy has been shown to improve intestinal absorption of energy and intestinal wet
weight absorption as well as prolong gastric emptying of solids and liquids. See Jeppesen, P.B.,
2003, "Clinical significance of GLP-2 in short-bowel syndrome," Journal of Nutrition 133 (11):
3721-4. GLP-2 is also reported to stimulate intestinal growth in addition to inhibiting gastric
secretion and gastric motility. Burrin et al., 2001, "Glucagon-like peptide 2: a nutrient
responsive gut growth factor," Journal of Nutrition 131 (3): 709. Modulation of GLP-2 secretion
through the administration of the compositions described herein can provide for the treatment of
short bowel syndrome and compromised intestinal function, including but not limited to, small
bowel resection, colitis, enteritis, inflammatory bowel syndrome, ischemic bowel, and
chemotherapeutic injury to the intestine.
Delivery to Specific Intestinal Locations
[002041     The density of L-cells increases along the length of the intestine with the lowest
density at the level of the duodenum and greatest in the rectum. There is an approximately 80
                                                 -114-

fold increase in L-cell density from the duodenum to rectum as assessed by peptide YY content.
See Adrian et al., Gastroenterology 1985; 89:1070-77. Given that nutrients or bile salts would
not be expected to reach the colon much less the rectum, the mechanism of these L-cells in the
regulation of metabolism is not completely clear. While speculative, it is possible that products
produced by the colonic flora could inform the gut of the microbial mass and composition via L
cell sensors and in turn this information could be relayed to the CNS via hormonal and neural
signals emanating from the colonic and rectal area which is innervated quite differently than the
small intestine. Regardless of the role of neuroendocrine cells in the colon and rectum, the basis
of this invention is to stimulate these cells wherever they may be (for example, different
individuals, and patients with diabetes, might be expected to have different distributions and
numbers of these cells) via the presentation of one or more stimuli of taste and/or nutrient
receptors and other stimulants for the purpose of treating metabolic disorders.
 [00205]    The upper intestine has different EECs than the lower intestine. For example, CCK
and GIP are released from the upper and not typically from the lower intestine, corresponding to
I- and K-cells predominantly being located in the upper gut. Conversely, L-cells are located
predominantly in the lower intestine. Hormonal release patterns are not only chemosensory
receptor ligand- and combination-specific but also site-specific in the intestine.
 [00206]    In embodiments, it is contemplated that sensing and/or metabolism of nutrients in the
upper intestine amplifies certain responses from the lower intestine. Moreover, L-cells located in
the upper intestine can behave differently than those in the lower region providing another level
control for targeting biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds. For example, in
embodiments, certain biguanide or related heterocyclic compound combinations or biguanide
and chemosensory receptor ligand combinations delivered to the upper intestine may be more
favorable to a hormonal release pattern for the treatment of one disorder, e.g., diabetes, whereas
that same combination delivered to the lower intestine may be more appropriate for a different
disorder, e.g., obesity. It is also contemplated that the same combination can produce a more
favorable hormonal profile when presented to both the upper and lower intestine.
 [00207]    Thus, the embodiments described herein provide a treatment method comprising a
combination of biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds that is engineered to deliver certain
                                                -115-

of the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds to one or more locations of the intestine, for
example, to optimize hormonal patterns achieved.
 [00208]    In some of the embodiments provided herein, the biguanide or related heterocyclic
compounds are delivered to one or more regions of the intestine. In some of the embodiments
provided herein, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are delivered to one or more
regions downstream or distal of the stomach. In certain embodiments, the biguanide or related
heterocyclic compounds are delivered to one or more regions of the upper intestine. In certain
embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are delivered to the duodenum,
jejunum, ileum, or a combination thereof In certain embodiments, the biguanide or related
heterocyclic compounds are delivered to one or more regions of the lower intestine. In certain
embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are delivered to the caecum,
colon, rectum, or a combination thereof. In yet other embodiments, the biguanide or related
heterocyclic compounds are delivered downstream or distal of the duodenum. In additional
embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are delivered downstream or
distal of the jejunum.
 [002091    In yet other embodiments, biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are delivered
to one or more regions of the upper intestine and one or more regions of the lower intestine. For
example, biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds can be delivered to the duodenum and the
colon. In another non-limiting example, biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds can be
delivered to the duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon. More embodiments are described under
Formulations.
[00210]     Administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds to certain regions or
locations of the intestine is achieved by any known method. In certain embodiments, enteral
administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds is performed, e.g., in rodents or
man. Intubation/cannulation is performed in lightly anaesthetized patients with silastic tubing.
Tubing is placed in the post-pyloric region and in the rectum and advanced as deeply as possible.
These locations are explored separately and together as foods sensed in the upper intestine can
provide signals to the lower intestine and vice versa. In certain embodiments, biguanide or
related heterocyclic compounds are formulated in a modified release composition for oral
delivery that delivers the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds to targeted regions or
                                                -116-

locations of the intestine. In yet other embodiments, biguanide or related heterocyclic
compounds are formulated for rectal delivery as a suppository, douche, wash, or the like for
delivery to targeted regions or locations of the intestinal tract, e.g., rectum or colon.
[00211]     When delivery of biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds is to two or more
regions of the gastrointestinal tract, the compounds delivered may be in any proportion and
manner. In some embodiments, certain biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are be
targeted and delivered to specific regions, such as for example, one compound to the ileum and
another compound to the colon or, in another example, compound(s) to the stomach, different
compound(s) to the duodenum and other compound(s) to the colon. In certain embodiments,
biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are delivered in certain proportions in each region
of the gut.
Administration
Combination therapies
[00212]     The compositions of the embodiments described herein may be co-administered with
known therapies for the treatment of any of the conditions described herein. Co-administration
can also provide for additive or synergistic effects, resulting in the need for lower dosages of a
known therapy, the compositions described herein, or both. Additional benefits of co
administration include the reduction in toxicities associated with any of the known therapies.
[002131     Co-administration includes simultaneous administration in separate compositions,
administration at different times in separate compositions, or administration in a composition in
which both agents are present. Thus, in some embodiments, compositions described herein and a
known therapy are administered in a single treatment. In some embodiments, the compositions
described herein and a known therapy are admixed in a resulting composition. In some
embodiments, compositions described herein and the known therapy are administered in separate
compositions or administrations.
[00214]     Administration of compositions described herein and known therapies described
herein may be by any suitable means. Administration of a composition described herein and a
second compound (e.g., diabetes drug or obesity drug) may be by any suitable means. If the
compositions described herein and a second compound are administered as separate
                                               -117-

compositions, they may be administered by the same route or by different routes. If the
compositions described herein and a second compound are administered in a single composition,
they may be administered by any suitable route such as, for example, oral administration. In
certain embodiments, compositions of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound and second
compounds can be administered to the same region or different regions of the gastrointestinal
tract. For example, biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds can be administered in
combination with an anti-diabetic drug to be delivered to the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, or
colon.
[00215]     Therapies, drugs and compounds useful for the treatment of diabetes, metabolic
syndrome (including glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia), and/or diseases
or conditions associated therewith may be administered with the biguanide or related
heterocyclic compounds. Diabetic therapies drugs and compounds include, but are not limited
to, those that decrease triglyceride concentrations, decrease glucose concentrations, and/or
modulate insulin (e.g. stimulate insulin production, mimic insulin, enhance glucose-dependent
insulin secretion, suppress glucagon secretion or action, improve insulin action or insulin
sensitizers, or are exogenous forms of insulin).
 [00216]    Drugs that decrease triglyceride level include but are not limited to ascorbic acid,
asparaginase, clofibrate, colestipol, fenofibrate mevastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin, fluvastatin,
or omega-3 fatty acid. Drugs that decrease LDL cholesterol level include but are not limited to
clofibrate, gemfibrozil, and fenofibrate, nicotinic acid, mevinolin, mevastatin, pravastatin,
simvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, cholestyrine, colestipol or probucol.
[00217]     In another aspect, compositions of the embodiments described herein may be
administered in combination with glucose-lowering compounds.
 [00218]    The medication classes of thiazolidinediones (also called glitazones), sulfonylureas,
meglitinides, biguanides, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, DPP-IV inhibitors, and incretin mimetics
have been used as adjunctive therapies for hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus (type 2) and
related diseases.
 [002191    Drugs that decrease glucose level include but are not limited to glipizides, glyburides,
exenatide (Byetta@), incretins, sitagliptin (Januvia@), pioglitizone, glimepiride, rosiglitazone,
metformin, vildagliptin, saxagliptin (OnglyzaTM), sulfonylureas, meglitinide (e.g., Prandin@)
                                                 -118-

glucosidase inhibitor, biguanides (e.g., Glucophage@), repaglinide, acarbose, troglitazone,
nateglinide, natural, synthetic or recombinant insulin and derivatives thereof, and amylin and
amylin derivatives.
[00220]     When administered sequentially, the combination may be administered in two or more
administrations. In an alternative embodiment, it is possible to administer one or more biguanide
or related heterocyclic compounds and one or more additional active ingredients by different
routes. The skilled artisan will also recognize that a variety of active ingredients may be
administered in combination with one or more biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds that
may act to augment or synergistically enhance the control prevention, amelioration, attenuation,
or treatment of obesity or eating disorders or conditions.
 [00221]   According to the methods provided herein, when co-administered with at least one
other obesity reducing (or anti-obesity) or weight reducing drug, a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound(s) may be: (1) co-formulated and administered or delivered
simultaneously in a combined formulation; (2) delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate
formulations; or (3) by any other combination therapy regimen known in the art. When
delivered in alternation therapy, the methods provided may comprise administering or delivering
the active ingredients sequentially, e.g., in separate solution, emulsion, suspension, tablets, pills
or capsules, or by different injections in separate syringes. In general, during alternation therapy,
an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially, i.e., serially, whereas
in simultaneous therapy, effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered
together. Various sequences of intermittent combination therapy may also be used.
[00222]    In certain embodiments, compositions provided herein may be used with other
commercially available diet aids or other anti-obesity agents, such as, by way of example, PYY
and PYY agonists, GLP-1 and GLP-1 agonists, a DPP-IV inhibitor, CCK and CCK agonists,
exendin and exendin agonists, GIP and GIP agonists, amylin and amylin agonists, ghrelin
modulators (e.g., inhibitors such as but not limtied to Cortistatin-8, AEZ-123 (JMV2959) under
development by AEtema Zentaris Inc., [D-Arg(1),D-Phe(5),D-Trp(7,9),Leu( 11)]-substance P, D
Lys3-GHRP-6, YIL-781 and YIL870 under development by Bayer (see, e.g., Esler et al. (2007)
Endocrinology 148:5175-85), and EX-1350 under development by Elixer Pharmaceuticals) and
leptin and leptin agonists. In certain instances, biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
                                                -119-

                                                                                        or mimetics.
compositions provided herein are used in combination with amylin, anylin agonists
Exemplary amylin agonists or mimetics include pramlintide and related compounds. In certain
instances, biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions provided herein are used in
combination with leptin, leptin agonists or mimetics. Additional leptin agonists or mimetics can
be identified using the methods described by U.S. Pat. No. 7,247,427 which is incorporated by
reference herein. In further instances, biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions
provided herein increase leptin sensitivity and increase effectiveness of leptin, leptin agonists or
mimetics.
[00223]     Additional anti-obesity agents for use in the methods provided that are in current
development are also of interest in the methods of the present invention. Other anti-obesity
agents include alone or any combination of phentermine, fenfluramine, sibutramine, rimonabant,
topiramate, zonisamide bupropion, naltrexone, lorcaserin, and orlistat. Therapies, drugs and
compounds useful for the treatment of weight loss, binge eating, food addictions and cravings
may be administered with the compositions described herein. For example, the subject may
further be administered at least one other drug which is known to suppress hunger or control
appetite. Such therapies drugs and compounds include but are not limited to phenteramines such
as Meridia@ and Xenical. Additional therapies, drugs and compounds are known in the art and
contemplated herein.
[00224]     As such, in one aspect, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds may be used
as part of a combination therapy for the control, prevention or treatment of obesity or eating
disorders or conditions. Compounds used as part of a combination therapy to treat obesity or
reduce weight include, but are not limited to, central nervous system agents that affect
neurotransmitters or neural ion channels, including antidepressants (bupropion), noradrenalin
reuptake inhibitors (GW320659), selective serotonin 2c receptor agonists, selective 5HT 2c
receptor agonists, antiseizure agents (topiramate, zonisamide), some dopamine antagonists, and
cannabinoid-1 receptor antagonists (CB-1 receptor antagonists) (rimonabant);
leptin/insulin/central nervous system pathway agents, including leptin analogues, leptin transport
and/or leptin receptor promoters, ciliary neurotrophic factor (Axokine), neuropeptide Y and
agouti-related peptide antagonists, pro-opiomelanocortin and cocaine and amphetamine
regulated transcript promoters, .alpha.-melanocyte-stimulating hormone analogues,
melanocoritin-4 receptor agonists, and agents that affect insulin metabolism/activity, which
                                                -120-

include protein-tyrosine phosphatase-IB inhibitors, peroxisome proliferator activated receptor
.gamma. receptor antagonists, short-acting bromocriptine (ergoset), somatostatin agonists
(octreotide), and adiponectin/Acrp30 (Famoxin or Fatty Acid Metabolic Oxidation Inducer);
gastrointestinal-neural pathway agents, including those that increase cholecystokinin activity
(CCK), PYY activity, NPY activity, and PP activity, increase glucagon-like peptide-1 activity
(exendin 4, liraglutide, dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors), and those that decrease ghrelin
activity, as well as amylin analogues (pramlintide); agents that may increase resting metabolic
rate (selective p-3 stimulators/agonist, uncoupling protein homologues, and thyroid receptor
agonists); other more diverse agents, including melanin concentrating hormone antagonists,
phytostanol analogues, functional oils, P57, amylase inhibitors, growth hormone fragments,
synthetic analogues of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, antagonists of adipocyte 11B
hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 activity, corticotropin-releasing hormone agonists,
inhibitors of fatty acid synthesis (cerulenin and C75), carboxypeptidase inhibitors,
indanone/indanols, aminosterols (trodusquemine/trodulamine), and other gastrointestinal lipase
inhibitors (ATL962); amphetamines, such as dextroamphetamine; other sympathomimetic
adrenergic agents, including phentermine, benzphetamine, phendimetrazine, mazindol, and
diethylpropion.
[00225]      Other compounds include ecopipam; oxyntomodulin (OM); inhibitors of glucose
dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP); gastrin-releasing peptide; neuromedin B;
enterostatin; amfebutamone, SR-5861 1; CP-045598; AOD-0604; QC-BT16; rGLP-1; 1426
(HMR-1426); N-5984; ISIS-1 13715; solabegron; SR-147778; Org-34517; melanotan-II;
cetilistat; c-2735; c-5093; c-2624; APD-356; radafaxine; fluasterone; GP-389255; 856464; S
2367; AVE-1625; T-71; oleoyl-estrone; peptide YY [3-36] intranasal; androgen receptor
agonists; PYY 3-36; DOV- 102677; tagatose; SLV-319; 1954 (Aventis Pharma AG);
oxyntomodulin, Thiakis; bromocriptine, PLIVA; diabetes/hyperlipidemia therapy, Yissum;
CKD-502; thyroid receptor beta agonists; beta-3 adrenoceptor agonist; CDK-A agonists; galanin
antagonist; dopamine D1/D2 agonists; melanocortin modulators; verongamine; neuropeptide Y
antagonists; melanin-concentrating hormone receptor antagonists; dual PPAR alpha/gamma
agonists; CGEN-P-4; kinase inhibitors; human MCH receptor antagonists; GHS-R antagonists;
ghrelin receptor agonists; DG70 inhibitors; cotinine; CRF-BP inhibitors; urocortin agonists;
UCL-2000; impentamine; .beta.-3 adrenergic receptor; pentapeptide MC4 agonists;
                                                - 121 -

trodusquemine; GT-2016; C-75; CPOP; MCH-1 receptor antagonists; RED-103004;
aminosterols; orexin-1 antagonists; neuropeptide Y5 receptor antagonists; DRF-4158; PT-15;
PTPase inhibitors; A37215; SA-0204; glycolipid metabolites; MC-4 agonist; produlestan; PTP
 1B inhibitors; GT-2394; neuropeptide Y5 antagonists; melanocortin receptor modulators; MLN
4760; PPAR gamma/delta dual agonists; NPY5RA-972; 5-HT2C receptor agonist; neuropeptide
Y5 receptor antagonists (phenyl urea analogs); AGRP/MC4 antagonists; neuropeptide Y5
antagonists (benzimidazole); glucocorticoid antagonists; MCHR1 antagonists; Acetyl-CoA
carboxylase inhibitors; R-1496; HOBI modulators; NOX-B 11; peptide YY 3-36 (eligen); 5-HT
 1 modulators; pancreatic lipase inhibitors; GRC- 1087; CB-I antagonists; MCH- 1 antagonists;
LY-448 100; bombesin BRS3 agonists; ghrelin antagonists; MC4 antagonists; stearoyl-CoA
desaturase modulators; H3 histamine antagonists; PPARpan agonists; EP-01492; hormone
sensitive lipase inhibitors; fatty acid-binding protein 4 inhibitors; thiolactone derivatives; protein
tyrosine phosphatase lB inhibitors; MCH-1 antagonist; P-64; PPAR gamma ligands; melanin
concentrating hormone antagonists; thiazole gastroprokinetics; PA-452; T-226296; A-331440;
immunodrug vaccines; diabetes/obesity therapeutics (Bioagency, Biofrontera Discovery GmbH);
P-7 (Genfit); DT-01 I M; PTPIB inhibitor; anti-diabetic peptide conjugates; KATP agonists;
obesity therapeutics (Lexicon); 5-HT2 agonists; MCH-1 receptor antagonists; GMAD-1/GMAD
2; STG-a-MD; neuropeptide Y antagonist; angiogenesis inhibitors; G protein-coupled receptor
agonists; nicotinic therapeutics (ChemGenex); anti-obesity agents (Abbott); neuropeptide Y
modulators; melanin concentrating hormone; GW-594884A; MC-4R agonist; histamine H3
antagonists; orphan GPCR modulators; MITO-3108; NLC-002; HE-2300; IGF/IBP-2-13; 5
HT2C agonists; ML-22952; neuropeptide Y receptor antagonists; AZ-40140; anti-obesity
therapy (Nisshin Flour); GNTI; melanocortin receptor modulators; alpha-amylase inhibitors;
neuropeptide Y 1 antagonist; beta-3 adrenoceptor agonists; ob gene products (Eli Lilly & Co.);
SWR-0342-SA; beta-3 adrenoceptor agonist; SWR-0335; SP-18904; oral insulin mimetics; beta
3 adrenoceptor agonists; NPY-1 antagonists; .beta.-3 agonists; obesity therapeutics (7TM
Pharma); 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD) 1 inhibitors; QRX-431; E-6776; RI-450;
melanocortin-4 antagonists; melanocortin 4 receptor agonists; obesity therapeutics (CuraGen);
leptin mimetics; A-74498; second-generation leptin; NBI-103; CL-314698; CP-1 14271; beta-3
adrenoceptor agonists; NMI-8739; UCL-1283; BMS-192548; CP-94253; PD-160170; nicotinic
agonist; LG-100754; SB-226552; LY-355124; CKD-71 1; L-751250; PPAR inhibitors; G-protein
                                                -122-

therapeutics; obesity therapy (Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc.); BW-1229; monoclonal antibody
(ObeSys/CAT); L-742791; (S)-sibutramine; MBU-23; YM-268; BTS-78050; tubby-like protein
genes; genomics (eating disorders; Allelix/Lilly); MS-706; GI-264879A; GW-409890; FR-79620
analogs; obesity therapy (Hybrigenics SA); ICI-198157; ESP-A; 5-HT2C agonists; PD-170292;
AIT-202; LG-100641; GI-181771; anti-obesity therapeutics (Genzyme); leptin modulator;
 GHRH mimetics; obesity therapy (Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.); SB-251023; CP
 331684; B1BO-3304; cholesten-3-ones; LY-362884; BRL-48962; NPY-1 antagonists; A-71378;
 .RTM.-didesmethylsibutramine; amide derivatives; obesity therapeutics (Bristol-Myers Squibb
 Co.); obesity therapeutics (Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc.); LY-226936; NPY antagonists; CCK-A
 agonists; FPL-14294; PD-145942; ZA-7114; CL-316243; SR-58878; R-1065; BIBP-3226; HP
 228; talibegron; FR-165914; AZM-008; AZM-016; AZM-120; AZM-090; vomeropherin; BMS
 187257; D-3800; AZM-131; gene discovery (Axys/Glaxo); BRL-26830A; SX-013; ERR
 modulators; adipsin; AC-253; A-71623; A-68552; BMS-210285; TAK-677; MPV-1743; obesity
 therapeutics (Modex); GI-248573; AZM-134; AZM-127; AZM-083; AZM-132; AZM-115;
 exopipam; SSR-125180; obesity therapeutics (Melacure Therapeutics AB); BRL-35135; SR
 146131; P-57; AZM-140; CGP-71583A; RF-1051; BMS-196085; manifaxine; beta-3 agonists;
 DMNJ (Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology); BVT-5182; LY-255582;
 SNX-024; galanin antagonists; neurokinin-3 antagonists; dexfenfluramine; mazindol;
 diethylpropion; phendimetrazine; benzphetamine; amfebutmone; sertraline; metformin; AOD
 9604; ATL-062; BVT-933; GT389-255; SLV319; HE-2500; PEG-axokine; L-796568; and ABT
 239.
 [00226]    In some embodiments, compounds for use in combination with a biguanide or related
 heterocyclic compound composition provided herein include rimonabant, sibutramine, orlistat,
 PYY or an analog thereof, CB-I antagonist, leptin, phentermine, and exendin analogs.
 Exemplary dosing ranges include phentermine resin (30 mg in the morning), fenfluramine
 hydrochloride (20 mg three times a day), and a combination of phentermine resin (15 mg in the
 morning) and fenfluramine hydrochloride (30 mg before the evening meal), and sibutramine (10
 20 mg). Weintraub et al. (1984) Arch. Intern. Med. 144:1143-1148.
 [00227]    In further embodiments, compounds for use in combination with a biguanide or related
 heterocyclic compound composition provided herein include GPR1 19 agonists (e.g.,
 anandamide; AR-231, 453; MBX-2982; Oleoylethanolamide; PSN-365,963; PSN-632,408;
                                               - 123 -

                                                                                      not limited
palmitoylethanolamide), GPR120 agonists (e.g., omega-3 fatty acids including, but
to, a-linolenic acid, docosapentaenoic acid, docosahexaenoic acid, eicosatrienoic acid,
eicosatetraenoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, heneicosapentaenoic acid, hexadecatrienoic acid,
stearidonic acid, tetracosahexaenoic acid and tetracosapentaenoic acid), and GPR 40 agonists
(e.g., free fatty acids including short-, medium-, and long-chain saturated and unsaturated fatty
acids).
[00228]      In some embodiments, a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition
provided herein is used as an adjunctive therapy to a bariatric surgical procedure. Bariatric
surgery is a procedure for weight loss and relates to modifications with the gastrointestinal tract
and includes such procedures as gastric banding, sleeve gastrectomy, GI bypass procedure (e.g.,
roux en Y, biliary duodenal bypass, loop gastric bypass), intragastric balloon, vertical banded,
gastroplasty, endoluminal sleeve, biliopancreatic diversion, and the like. In certain instances, a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition is adjunctive to gastric banding. In
certain instances, a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition is adjunctive to GI
bypass procedures. In yet other instances, a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
composition is adjunctive to sleeve gastrectomy. In certain embodiments, a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound composition as an adjunctive therapy to bariatric surgery is administered
prior to the bariatric procedure. In certain embodiments, a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound composition as an adjunctive therapy to bariatric surgery is administered after the
bariatric procedure. In certain instances, when used as adjunctive therapy, the dosage and
amounts of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition may be adjusted as
needed with respect to the bariatric procedure. For example, amounts of a biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound composition administered as an adjunct therapy to a bariatric procedure
may be reduced by one-half of normal dosages or as directed by a medical professional.
 [00229]     Combination therapy can be exploited, for example, in modulating metabolic
syndrome (or treating metabolic syndrome and its related symptoms, complications and
disorders), wherein biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions provided herein
can be effectively used in combination with, for example, the active agents discussed above for
modulating, preventing or treating diabetes, obesity, hyperlipidemia, atherosclerosis, and/or their
respective related symptoms, complications and disorders.
                                                -124-

Formulations
 [00230]    Formulations for the compositions provided herein include those suitable for oral or
rectal administration, and administration although the most suitable route can depend upon for
 example the condition and disorder of the recipient. The formulations can conveniently be
presented in unit dosage form and can be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art
 of pharmacy. All methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with
the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients.
 [00231]    Formulations suitable for oral administration can be presented as discrete units such as
 capsules, cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient; as a
powder or granules; as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid or a non-aqueous liquid;
 or as an oil-in-water liquid emulsion or a water-in-oil liquid emulsion.
 [002321    Composition preparations which can be used orally include tablets, push-fit capsules
made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer, such as
glycerol or sorbitol. Tablets can be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or
more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets can be prepared by compressing in a suitable
machine the active ingredient in a free-flowing form such as a powder or granules, optionally
mixed with binders (e.g., povidone, gelatin, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose), inert diluents,
preservative, disintegrant (e.g., sodium starch glycolate, cross-linked povidone, cross-linked
sodium carboxymethyl cellulose) or lubricating, surface active or dispersing agents. Molded
tablets can be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound
moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets can optionally be coated or scored and can be
formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein. Tablets
can optionally be provided with an enteric coating, to provide release in parts of the gut other
than the stomach. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such
administration. The push-fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler
such as lactose, binders such as starches, and/or lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate
and, optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds can be dissolved or suspended
in suitable liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition,
stabilizers can be added. Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose,
concentrated sugar solutions can be used, which can optionally contain gum arabic, talc,
                                                  - 125-

polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer
solutions, and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments can be added
to the tablets or Dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of
active compound doses.
[00233]     For buccal or sublingual administration, the compositions can take the form of tablets,
lozenges, pastilles, or gels formulated in conventional manner. Such compositions can comprise
the active ingredient in a flavored basis such as sucrose and acacia or tragacanth. Such
compositions can be formulated to delivery biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds to a
desired area in the gastrointestional system.
[00234]     It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned
above, the compounds and compositions described herein can include other agents conventional
in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question, for example those suitable for oral
administration can include flavoring agents.
[002351     The compositions described herein can also contain biguanide or related heterocyclic
compounds in a form suitable for oral use, for example, as tablets, troches, lozenges, aqueous or
oily suspensions, dispersible powders or granules, emulsions, hard or soft capsules, or syrups or
elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use can be prepared according to any method known to
the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions, and such compositions can contain
one or more agents selected from, by way of non-limiting example, sweetening agents, flavoring
agents, coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and
palatable preparations.
[00236]     Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with pharmaceutically acceptable
excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients can be, for
example, inert diluents, such as calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, lactose, calcium phosphate
or sodium phosphate; granulating and disintegrating agents, such as microcrystalline cellulose,
sodium crosscarmellose, corn starch, or alginic acid; binding agents, for example starch, gelatin,
polyvinyl-pyrrolidone or acacia, and lubricating agents, for example, magnesium stearate, stearic
acid or talc. The tablets can be un-coated or coated by known techniques to mask the taste of the
drug or delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a
sustained action over a longer period. For example, a water soluble taste masking material such
                                                -126-

as hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose or hydroxypropylcellulose, or a time delay material such as
ethyl cellulose, or cellulose acetate butyrate can be employed as appropriate. Formulations for
oral use can also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed
with an inert solid diluent, for example, calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate or kaolin, or as
soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with water soluble carrier such as
polyethyleneglycol or an oil medium, for example peanut oil, liquid paraffin, or olive oil.
[002371 In various embodiments, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
compositions provided herein are in liquid form. Liquid forms include, by way of non-limiting
example, neat liquids, solutions, suspensions, dispersions, colloids, foams and the like. In certain
instances, liquid forms contain also a nutritional component or base (e.g., derived from milk,
yogurt, shake, or juice). In some aspects, the biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are
micronized or as nanoparticles in the liquid form. In certain instances, the biguanide or related
heterocyclic compounds are coated to mask the tastant properties. In other instances, the
biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds are coated to modify delivery to the intestine and
colon.
[002381 Aqueous solutions or suspensions contain the active ingredient(s) in admixture with
excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending
agents, for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl
cellulose, sodium alginate, polyvinyl-pyrrolidone, gum tragacanth and gum acacia; dispersing or
wetting agents can be a naturally-occurring phosphatide, for example lecithin, or condensation
products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids, for example polyoxyethylene stearate, or
condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols, for example
heptadecaethylene-oxycetanol, or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters
derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate, or
condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol
anhydrides, for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous solutions or
suspensions can also contain one or more preservatives, for example ethyl, or n-propyl p
hydroxybenzoate, one or more coloring agents, one or more flavoring agents, and one or more
sweetening agents, such as sucrose, saccharin or aspartame. In certain instances, the flavoring
agents are biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds.
                                                -127-

[002391     Oily suspensions can be formulated by suspending the active ingredient(s) in a
vegetable oil, for example arachis oil, olive oil, sesame oil or coconut oil, or in mineral oil such
as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions can contain a thickening agent, for example beeswax,
hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above, and'flavoring
agents can be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions can be preserved
by the addition of an anti-oxidant such as butylated hydroxyanisol or alpha-tocopherol.
[002401     Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous solutions or
suspension by the addition of water provide the active ingredient in admixture with a dispersing
or wetting agent, suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting
agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional
excipients, for example sweetening, flavoring and coloring agents, can also be present. These
compositions can be preserved by the addition of an anti-oxidant such as ascorbic acid.
[00241]     Compositions can also be in the form of an oil-in-water emulsion. The oily phase can
be a vegetable oil, for example olive oil or arachis oil, or a mineral oil, for example liquid
paraffin or mixtures of these. Suitable emulsifying agents can be naturally-occurring
phosphatides, for example soy bean lecithin, and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids
and hexitol anhydrides, for example sorbitan monooleate, and condensation products of the said
partial esters with ethylene oxide, for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The
emulsions can also contain sweetening agents, flavoring agents, preservatives and antioxidants.
[00242]     Syrups and elixirs can be formulated with sweetening agents, for example glycerol,
propylene glycol, sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations can also contain a demulcent, a
preservative, flavoring and coloring agents and antioxidant.
[002431     Compositions can also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or
retention enemas, e.g., containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter,
polyethylene glycol, or other glycerides. These compositions can be prepared by mixing the
inhibitors with a suitable non-irritating excipient which is solid at ordinary temperatures but
liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such
materials include cocoa butter, glycerinated gelatin, hydrogenated vegetable oils, mixtures of
polyethylene glycols of various molecular weights and fatty acid esters of polyethylene glycol.
                                                -128-

 [002441     The composition can, for example, be in a form suitable for oral administration as a
tablet, capsule, cachet, pill, lozenge, powder or granule, sustained release formulations, solution,
liquid, or suspension. The pharmaceutical composition can be in unit dosage forms suitable for
single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a
conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and the compound according to the invention as
an active ingredient. In addition, it can include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents,
 carriers, adjuvants, etc.
 [002451     Suitable carriers include inert diluents or fillers, water and various organic solvents.
The compositions can, if desired, contain additional ingredients such as flavorings, binders,
 excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration, tablets containing various excipients, such
 as citric acid can be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch or other
 cellulosic material, alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as
sucrose, gelatin and acacia. Additionally, lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate, sodium
lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Other reagents such as an inhibitor,
surfactant or solubilizer, plasticizer, stabilizer, viscosity increasing agent, or film forming agent
can also be added. Solid compositions of a similar type can also be employed in soft and hard
filled gelatin capsules. Materials include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight
polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the
active compound therein can be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents, coloring
matters or dyes and, if desired, emulsifying agents or suspending agents, together with diluents
such as water, ethanol, propylene glycol, glycerin, or combinations thereof.
[00246]      Also contemplated within the invention are food compositions, including medical food
compositions and formulations containing the compositions of the invention described herein, as
well as nutritional or dietary supplements incorporating the compositions of the invention.
Foods, such as medical foods, incorporating biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
compositions include edible forms such as bars, candies, powders, gels, snacks, soups, and
liquids. Chewing gums are also contemplated within the scope of food compositions. Medical
food biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions can be formulated to control the
amounts and types of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s) as well as the content of
other edible additives and ingredients (e.g., carbohydrates, proteins, fats, fillers, excipients).
Exemplary medical food compositions include, but are not limited to, bars with defined and/or
                                                  -129-

limited biguanide or related heterocyclic compounds. Food compositions can be packaged ready
to-serve or ready-to-consume where a set amount of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
is present at a predefined dosage. Examples include frozen food products, yoghurts, shakes and
the like. In another aspect, food compositions can be "semi-finished" where an individual
assembles various components such as flavorings, sauces, extracts, etc. into a finished
consumable product, e.g., soup base, pre-packaged noodles, dessert gelatin. The biguanide or
related heterocyclic compounds can be present in one or more components of a semi-finished
food composition adapted for mixing in biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s) during
food preparation or sprinkling them on the finished, prepared food.
Modified Release Formulations
 [00247]    In various embodiments, the methods and compositions directed to the biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound are provided in the form of controlled, sustained, or extended
release formulations, known collectively as "modified release" formulations. Compositions can
be administered by modified release means or by delivery devices that are well known to those
of ordinary skill in the art. Examples include, but are not limited to, those described in U.S. Pat.
Nos. 3,845,770; 3,916,899; 3,536,809; 3,598,123; 4,008,719; 5,674,533; 5,059,595; 5,591,767;
5,120,548; 5,073,543; 5,639,476; 5,354,556; and 5,733,566. Such dosage forms can be used to
provide modified release of one or more active ingredients using, for example,
hydropropylmethyl cellulose, other polymer matrices, gels, permeable membranes, osmotic
systems, multilayer coatings, microparticles, liposomes, microspheres, or a combination thereof
to provide the desired release profile in varying proportions. Suitable modified release
formulations known to those of ordinary skill in the art, including those described herein, can be
readily selected for use with the active ingredients of the invention. The invention thus
encompasses single unit dosage forms suitable for oral administration such as, but not limited to,
tablets, capsules, gelcaps, and caplets that are adapted for controlled- or sustained-release.
[00248]    Many strategies can be pursued to obtain modified release in which the rate of release
outweighs, if any, the rate of metabolism of the compound and/or the location of the release is
controlled. For example, modified release can be obtained by the appropriate selection of
formulation parameters and ingredients (e.g., appropriate controlled release compositions and
coatings). Examples include single or multiple unit tablet or capsule compositions, oil solutions,
                                                 -130-

suspensions, emulsions, microcapsules, microspheres, nanoparticles, patches, and liposomes.
The release mechanism can be controlled such that the compounds are released at period
intervals, the release could be simultaneous, a delayed release of one of the agents of the
combination can be affected, when the early release of one particular agent is preferred over the
 other, or the location of the release is controlled. Different delivery systems described herein can
 also be combined to release at an onset of multiple period intervals (e.g., about 30 minutes, about
 120 minutes, about 180 minutes and about 240 minutes after oral administration) or at different
 locations (e.g., release in the lower intestine tract, upper intestine tract, the duodenum, jejunum,
 ileum, caecum, colon, and/or rectum) or a combination thereof. For example, a pH dependent
 system can be combined with a timed release system or any other system described herein to
 achieve a desired release profile.
 [002491     In some embodiments, the modified release systems are formulated to release a the
 compound at a duration of about 75 minutes, about 80 minutes, about 90 minutes, about 100
minutes, about 110 minutes, about 120 minutes, about 130 minutes, about 140 minutes, about
 150 minutes, about 160 minutes, about 170 minutes, about 180 minutes, about 190 minutes,
about 200 minutes, about 210 minutes, about 220 minutes, about 230 minutes, about 240
minutes, about 250 minutes, about 260 minutes, about 270 minutes, about 280 minutes, about
290 minutes, about 300 minutes, about 310 minutes, about 320 minutes, about 330 minutes,
about 340 minutes, about 350 minutes, about 360 minutes, about 370 minutes, about 380
minutes, about 390 minutes, about 400, about 400, about 410, or about 420 minutes subsequent
to onset of the release. In embodiments with multiple releases, modified release systems are
formulated to release at more than one durations of time at different time points.
 [002501      In various embodiments, the compound compositions(s) are provided in the form of
modified release formulations coupled with an immediate release component in a unitary dosage
form. The immediate release component can be formulated by any known method such as a layer
that envelops the modified release component or the like. Exemplary ratios of immediate release
("IR") of an active agent to a modified release ("MR") of an active agent are about 10% IR to
about 90% MR, about 15% IR to about 85% MR, about 20% IR to about 80% MR, about 25%
IR to about 75% MR, about 30% IR to about 70% MR, about 35% IR to about 65% MR, about
40% IR to about 60% MR, about 45% IR to about 55% MR, or about 50% IR to about 50% MR.
In certain embodiments, the immediate release of an active agent to modified release of an active
                                                  -131-

agent is about 25% IR to about 75% MR. In certain embodiments, the immediate release of an
active agent to modified release of an active agent is about 20% IR to about 80% MR. Unitary
dosage forms with an IR and MR component include any known formulation including bilayer
tablets, coated pellets, and the like.
Timed release systems
[00251]     In one embodiment, the release mechanism is a "timed" or temporal release ("TR")
system that releases an active agent, for example a biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound(s), at certain timepoints subsequent to administration. Timed release systems are well
known in the art and suitable timed release system can include any known excipient and/or
coating. For example, excipients in a matrix, layer or coating can delay release of an active
agent by slowing diffusion of the active agent into an environment. Suitable timed release
excipients, include but are not limited to, acacia (gum arabic), agar, aluminum magnesium
silicate, alginates (sodium alginate), sodium stearate, bladderwrack, bentonite, carbomer,
carrageenan, Carbopol, cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, ceratonia, chondrus, dextrose,
furcellaran, gelatin, Ghatti gum, guar gum, galactomannan, hectorite, lactose, sucrose,
maltodextrin, mannitol, sorbitol, honey, maize starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch,
gelatin, sterculia gum, xanthum gum, Glyceryl behenate (e.g., Compritol 888 ato), Gylceryl
distearate (e.g. Precirol ato 5), polyethylene glycol (e.g., PEG 200-4500), polyethylene oxide,
adipic acid, gum tragacanth, ethyl cellulose (e.g., ethyl cellulose 100), ethylhydroxyethyl
cellulose, ethylmethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxyethylmethyl
cellulose (e.g., K100LV, K4M, K15M), hydroxypropyl cellulose, poly(hydroxyethyl
methacrylate), cellulose acetate (e.g. cellulose acetate CA-398-10 NF), cellulose acetate
phthalate, cellulose acetate propionate, cellulose acetate butyrate, hydroxypropyl methyl
cellulose acetate succinate, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose phthalate, cellulose butyrate,
cellulose nitrate, oxypolygelatin, pectin, polygeline, povidone, propylene carbonate,
polyandrides, methyl vinyl ether/maleic anhydride copolymer (PVM/MA), poly(methoxyethyl
methacrylate), poly(methoxyethoxyethyl methacrylate), hydroxypropyl cellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, sodium carboxymethyl-cellulose (CMC), silicon dioxide, vinyl
polymers, e.g. polyvinyl pyrrolidones(PVP: povidone), polyvinyl acetates, or polyvinyl acetate
                                                -132-

phthalates and mixtures, Kollidon SR, acryl derivatives (e.g. polyacrylates, e.g. cross-linked
polyacrylates, methycrylic acid copolymers), Splenda@ (dextrose, maltodextrin and sucralose) or
combinations thereof. The timed release excipient may be in a matrix with active agent, in
another compartment or layer of the formulation, as part of the coating, or any combination
thereof. Varying amounts of one or more timed release excipients may be used to achieve a
 designated release time.
 [002521    In some embodiments, the timed release systems are fonnulated to release a biguanide
 or related heterocyclic compound(s) at an onset of about 75 minutes, about 80 minutes, about 90
minutes, about 100 minutes, about 110 minutes, about 120 minutes, about 130 minutes, about
 140 minutes, about 150 minutes, about 160 minutes, about 170 minutes, about 180 minutes,
 about 190 minutes, about 200 minutes, about 210 minutes, about 220 minutes, about 230
minutes, about 240 minutes, about 250 minutes, about 260 minutes, about 270 minutes, about
280 minutes, about 290 minutes, about 300 minutes, about 310 minutes, about 320 minutes,
about 330 minutes, about 340 minutes, about 350 minutes, about 360 minutes, about 370
minutes, about 380 minutes, about 390 minutes, about 400, about 400, about 410, or about 420
minutes subsequent to administration. In embodiments with multiple releases, timed release
systems are formulated to release at more than one time point. In certain embodiments, the
timed release systems are formulated to release at an onset of about 120 minutes, about 180
minutes and about 240 minutes after administration. In certain embodiments o the timed release
systems are formulated to release at an onset of about 5 to about 45 minutes, about 105 to about
 135 minutes, about 165 to about 195 minutes, about 225 to about 255 minutes or a combination
of times thereof following administration to a subject.
[00253]     In various embodiments, the methods and compositions directed to biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound(s) are provided in the form of timed release formulations coupled
with an immediate release component in a unitary dosage form. The immediate release
component can be a can be formulated by any known method such as a layer that envelops the
timed release component or the like. The timed release component can be formulated to release
at exemplary times previously described. Exemplary ratios of immediate release ("IR") of an
active agent to a timed release ("TR") of an active agent are about 10% IR to about 90% TR,
about 15% IR to about 85% TR, about 20% IR to about 80% TR, about 25% IR to about 75%
TR, about 30% IR to about 70% TR, about 35% IR to about 65% TR, about 40% IR to about
                                              -133-

60% TR, about 45% IR to about 55% TR, or about 50% IR to about 50% TR. In certain
embodiments, the immediate release of an active agent to timed release of an active agent is
about 25% IR to about 75% TR. In certain embodiments, the immediate release of an active
agent to timed release of an active agent is about 20% IR to about 80% TR.
Enteric coatings and pH Dependent Systems
[00254]    The formulation may also be coated with an enteric coating, which protects an active
agent, for example a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s), from degradation in an
acidic environment, such as the stomach, and allows a delayed release into a target area, for
example the duodenum, for uptake.
 [00255]   The enteric coating may be, as a non-limiting example, wax or wax like substance,
such as carnauba wax, fatty alcohols, hydrogenated vegetable oils, zein, shellac, sucrose, Arabic
gum, gelatin, dextrin, psyllium husk powder, polymethacrylates, anionic polymethacrylates,
mixtures of poly(methacrylic acid, methyl methacrylate), polymers or copolymers derived from
acrylic and/or methacrylic acid esters, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate trimelliate,
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate (HPMCP), cellulose propionate phthalate, cellulose
acetate maleate, polyvinyl alcohol phthalate, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate
(HPMCAS), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose hexahydrophthalate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate,
mixtures of poly(methacrylic acid, ethyl acrylate), ethylcellulose, methylcellulose,
propylcellulose, chitosan succinate, chitosan succinate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate (PVAP),
polyvinyl acetate polymers carboxymethylethyl cellulose and compatible mixtures thereof. In
addition, an inactive intermediate film may be provided between the active agent, for example, a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s), and the enteric coating to prevent interaction of
the active agent with the enteric coating.
[00256]    The enteric coatings can be formulated to release the active agent, for example, a
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s), at a desired pH using combinations of enteric
polymers. It is well-known that different locations of the gastrointestinal system have specific
pHs. For example, the duodenum may correspond to a pH 5.5 environment and the jejunum may
correspond to pH 6.0 environment. In some embodiments, the enteric coatings are formulated to
release a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s) at an onset of a pH including about pH
                                               -134-

5, about pH 5.5, about pH 6, about pH 6.5, or about pH 7. In embodiments with multiple
releases, the enteric coatings are formulated to release at an onset of two or more pH values. In
certain embodiments, the enteric coatings are formulated to release at an onset of pH 5.5, 6.0, 6.5
and 7.0. In certain embodiments, the enteric coatings are formulated to release at an onset of pH
5.5, 6.0 and 6.5. In certain embodiments, the enteric coatings are formulated to release at the
duodenum, jejunum, ileum, and lower intestine. In yet other embodiments, the enteric coatings
are used in combination with other release systems such as a timed release system.
 [002571    In yet other embodiments, the enteric coatings are used in combination with an
immediate release/modified release unitary dosage forms. For example, an unitary dosage form,
such as a bilayer tablet with a 20% IR/80% MR component of biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound(s) can be coated with an enteric coating that releases at pH 6.5 so that the release is
delayed until the dosage form reaches a pH of 6.5, thereby releasing the IR component
immediately and the MR component according to its MR release properties. In certain instances,
the enteric coatings are used in combination with an immediate release/timed release unitary
dosage forms.
Microcapsule Gastroretentive Systems
[002581     The microcapsules gastroretentive systems described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,022,562,
5,846,566 and 5,603,957, can be used in the sustained release delivery methods described herein.
Microparticles of an active agent or drug are coated by spraying with a material consisting of a
mixture of a film-forming polymer derivative, a hydrophobic plasticizer, a functional agent and a
nitrogen-containing polymer. The resulting microcapsules are less than or equal to 1000 microns
(gm) in size, and in certain cases such microcapsules are between 100 and 500 microns. These
microcapsules remain in the small intestine for at least 5 hours.
[002591     Film-forming polymer derivatives used in such microcapsules include, but are not
limited to, ethylcellulose, cellulose acetate, and non-hydrosoluble cellulose derivates. The
nitrogen-containing polymers include, but are not limited to, polyacrylamide, poly-N
vinylamide, poly-N-vinyl-lactam and polyvinylpyrrolidone. The plasticizer used in such
microcapsule include, but are not limited to, glycerol esters, phthalates, citrates, sebacates,
cetylalcohol esters, castor oil and cutin. The surface-active and/or lubricating agent used in such
                                                 -135-

microcapsule include, but are not limited to, anionic surfactants, such as by way of example the
alkali metal or alkaline-earth metal salts of fatty acids, stearic acid and/or oleic acid, nonionic
surfactants, such as by way of example, polyoxyethylenated esters of sorbitan and/or
polyoxyethylenated esters of sorbitan and/or polyoxyethylenated derivatives of castor oil; and/or
lubricants such as stearates, such as by way of example, calcium, magnesium, aluminum stearate,
zinc stearate, stearylfumarate, sodium stearylfimarate, and glyceryl behenate.
Other Modified Release/Gastroretentive Systems
[002601     The following exemplary modified release and gastroretentive systems are useful for
the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions. In one non-limiting example,
chitosan and mixtures of chitosan with carboxymethylcellulose sodium (CMC-Na) have been
used as vehicles for the sustained release of active ingredients, as described by Inouye et al.,
Drug Design and Delivery 1: 297-305, 1987. Mixtures of these compounds and agents of the
combinations of the invention, when compressed under 200 kg/cm2, form a tablet from which
the active agent is slowly released upon administration to a patient. The release profile can be
changed by varying the ratios of chitosan, CMC-Na, and active agent(s). The tablets can also
contain other additives, including lactose, CaHPO4 dihydrate, sucrose, crystalline cellulose, or
croscarmellose sodium.
[002611     In another non-limiting example, Baichwal, in U.S. Pat. No. 6,245,356, describes
sustained release oral, solid dosage forms that includes agglomerated particles of a
therapeutically active medicament in amorphous form, a gelling agent, an ionizable gel strength
enhancing agent and an inert diluent. The gelling agent can be a mixture of a xanthan gum and a
locust bean gum capable of cross-linking with the xanthan gum when the gums are exposed to an
environmental fluid. Preferably, the ionizable gel enhancing agent acts to enhance the strength of
cross-linking between the xanthan gum and the locust bean gum and thereby prolonging the
release of the medicament component of the formulation. In addition to xanthan gum and locust
bean gum, acceptable gelling agents that may also be used include those gelling agents well
known in the art. Examples include naturally occurring or modified naturally occurring gums
such as alginates, carrageenan, pectin, guar gum, modified starch,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, methylcellulose, and other cellulosic materials or polymers, such
                                                -136-

as, for example, sodium carboxymethylcellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose, and mixtures of
the foregoing.
[002621     In another non-limiting formulation useful for the combinations of the invention,
Baichwal and Staniforth in U.S. Pat. No. 5,135,757 describe a free-flowing slow release
granulation for use as a pharmaceutical excipient that includes from about 20 to about 70 percent
or more by weight of a hydrophilic material that includes a heteropolysaccharide (such as, for
example, xanthan gum or a derivative thereof) and a polysaccharide material capable of cross
linking the heteropolysaccharide (such as, for example, galactomannans, and most preferably
locust bean gum) in the presence of aqueous solutions, and from about 30 to about 80 percent by
weight of an inert pharmaceutical-filler (such as, for example, lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol,
xylitol, fructose or mixtures thereof). After mixing the excipient with a tricyclic
compound/corticosteroid combination, or combination agent, of the invention, the mixture is
directly compressed into solid dosage forms such as tablets. The tablets thus formed slowly
release the medicament when ingested and exposed to gastric fluids. By varying the amount of
excipient relative to the medicament, a slow release profile can be attained.
[002631     In another non-limiting example, Shell, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,007,790, describes
sustained-release oral drug-dosage forms that release a active ingredient in solution at a rate
controlled by the solubility of the active ingredient. The dosage form comprises a tablet or
capsule that includes a plurality of particles of a dispersion of a limited solubility active
ingredient in a hydrophilic, water-swellable, crosslinked polymer that maintains its physical
integrity over the dosing lifetime but thereafter rapidly dissolves. Once ingested, the particles
swell to promote gastric retention and permit the gastric fluid to penetrate the particles, dissolve
active ingredient and leach it from the particles, assuring that active ingredient reaches the
stomach in the solution state which is less injurious to the stomach than solid-state active
ingredient. The programmed eventual dissolution of the polymer depends upon the nature of the
polymer and the degree of crosslinking The polymer is nonfibrillar and substantially water
soluble in its uncrosslinked state, and the degree of crosslinking is sufficient to enable the
polymer to remain insoluble for the desired time period, normally at least from about 4 hours to 8
hours up to 12 hours, with the choice depending upon the active ingredient incorporated and the
medical treatment involved. Examples of suitable crosslinked polymers that may be used in the
invention are gelatin, albumin, sodium alginate, carboxymethyl cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, and
                                                - 137-

 chitin. Depending upon the polymer, crosslinking may be achieved by thermal or radiation
treatment or through the use of crosslinking agents such as aldehydes, polyamino acids, metal
 ions and the like.
 [002641    In an additional non-limiting example, Silicone microspheres for pH-controlled
 gastrointestinal drug delivery have been described by Carelli et al., Int. J. Pharmaceutics 179: 73
 83, 1999. The microspheres are pH-sensitive semi-interpenetrating polymer hydrogels made of
 varying proportions of poly(methacrylic acid-co-methylmethacrylate) (Eudragit L100 or
 Eudragit S100) and crosslinked polyethylene glycol 8000 that are encapsulated into silicone
 microspheres. Slow-release formulations can include a coating which is not readily water-soluble
 but which is slowly attacked and removed by water, or through which water can slowly
 permeate. Thus, for example, the combinations of the invention can be spray-coated with a
 solution of a binder under continuously fluidizing conditions, such as describe by Kitamori et al.,
 U.S. Pat. No. 4,036,948. Examples of water-soluble binders include pregelatinized starch (e.g.,
 pregelatinized corn starch, pregelatinized white potato starch), pregelatinized modified starch,
 water-soluble celluloses (e.g. hydroxypropylhcellulose, hydroxymethyl-cellulose,
 hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose, carboxymethyl-cellulose), polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl
 alcohol, dextrin, gum arabicum and gelatin, organic solvent-soluble binders, such as cellulose
 derivatives (e.g., cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylhcellulose phthalate,
ethylcellulose).
 [00265]    Combinations of the invention, or a component thereof, with sustained release
properties can also be formulated by spray drying techniques. Yet another form of sustained
release combinations can be prepared by microencapsulation of combination agent particles in
membranes which act as microdialysis cells. In such a formulation, gastric fluid permeates the
microcapsule walls and swells the microcapsule, allowing the active agent(s) to dialyze out (see,
for example, Tsuei et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,589,194). One commercially available sustained-release
system of this kind consists of microcapsules having membranes of acacia gum/gelatine/ethyl
alcohol. This product is available from Eurand Limited (France) under the trade name
DiffucapsTM. Microcapsules so formulated can be carried in a conventional gelatine capsule or
tabletted. A bilayer tablet can be formulated for a combination of the invention in which different
custom granulations are made for each agent of the combination and the two agents are
compressed on a bi-layer press to form a single tablet.
                                                 -138-

[00266]    When desired, formulations can be prepared with enteric coatings adapted for
sustained or controlled release administration of the active ingredient. A common type of
controlled-release formulation that may be used for the purposes of the present invention
comprises an inert core, such as a sugar sphere, coated with an inner active ingredient
containing layer and an outer membrane layer controlling active ingredient release from the inner
layer. Other formulations for targeted release of compounds in the gastrointestinal tract are also
known in the art and contemplated for use with the invention described herein. Exemplary
systems for targeting delivery of a substance to the upper and/or lower gastrointestinal tract
include the formulations of the TIMERx@ system. This controlled release formulation system
provides for altered temporal release (SyncroDoseTM) as well as biphasic release (Geminex@).
(See, for example, Staniforth & Baichwal, TIMERx@: novel polysaccharide composites for
controlled/programmed release of active ingredients in the gastrointestinal tract, Expert Opin.
Drug Deliv., 2(3): 587-89 (2005)). Using formulations such as these for the invention described
herein, compositions can be created which target the upper gastrointestinal tract, the lower
gastrointestinal tract, or both, in addition to temporally controlling the release of such
compounds in any of these locations.
 [00267]    One non-limiting example of a lower GI delivery formulation comprises a tablet for
lower GI delivery. The inner composition of the tablet comprises about 0.01% weight to about
 10.0% by weight of a suitable active ingredient; about 50% by weight to about 98% by weight of
a hydrocolloid gum obtainable from higher plants; and about 2% by weight to about 50% by
weight of a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient such as a binder. Other optional materials may
be present that will assist in establishing the desired characteristics of the pharmaceutical
composition. These include materials that may enhance absorption of the active ingredient in the
lower GI, may protect the active ingredient against degradation, may prevent dissolution, and the
like. Optionally surrounding the inner composition of the tablet is a coating that is preferably of
enteric polymeric material.
[00268]    The formulation is designed to take advantage of (1) the protective characteristics of
the hydrocolloid obtainable from higher plants in the upper GI and (2) the disintegrative
characteristics of the hydrocolloid in the lower GI. Thus, the inner composition of the tablet may
be one of several designs: (a) it may be a matrix of a therapeutically effective amount of the
active ingredient uniformly dispersed throughout in combination with a high percentage of the
                                                  -139-

hydrocolloid and a generally lesser amount of other excipients; (b) it may have a core, in which
the active ingredient is concentrated, surrounded by a layer of material that is free of the active
ingredient and that has a high percentage of the hydrocolloid and a generally lesser amount of
other excipients; (c) it may have a concentration gradient of the active ingredient such that there
is a greater amount in the core of the tablet with lesser amounts in multiple layers surrounding
the core and very little or no active ingredient in the outer layer. Whether the design of the tablet
is that of (a), (b) or (c) above, the specificity for regional delivery to the lower GI is enhanced by
enterically coating the tablet with an appropriate enteric coating material.
 [00269]    Hydrocolloids are obtainable from higher plants. By "higher plant" is meant an
organism of the vegetable kingdom that lacks the power of locomotion, has cellulose cell walls,
grows by synthesis of inorganic substances and includes the vascular plants (or tracheophytes) of
the division Spermatophyta, particularly those of the class Angiospermae. The gums may be
extracted from the roots, legumes, pods, berries, bark, etc. Representative hydrocolloid gums
obtainable from higher plants include guar gum, gum tragacanth, karaya gum (also referred to as
kadaya gum) and locust bean gum (also referred to as carob). Others may be readily apparent to
one of skill in the art. See, for example, "The Chemistry of Plant Gums and Mucilages" by Smith
and Montgomery from ACS Monograph Series, No. 141, 1959, Reinhold Publishing Company
and the 18th edition of the Merck Index. A particularly convenient and useful hydrocolloid is
guar gum which is a neutral polysaccharide and consists of long galactomannan molecules with
some side chain attachments. The hydrocolloids used in the patient invention generally have high
viscosity exhibited upon hydration, are normally linear (at least about 50% by weight of the
compound is the backbone chain), and will normally have high molecular weight, usually about
3x10 5 daltons, more usually greater than about lx1 0 6 daltons. Generally, the hydrocolloid
comes as a powdered hydrocolloid gum and exhibits a viscosity at a 1% concentration in a
neutral aqueous solution of at least about 75 centipoise per second (cps) at 250 C. after 24 hours,
using a Brookfield viscometer (model LDF) with a number 3 spindle at 90 rpms, preferably at
least lx10 3 cps and most preferably at least about 2x10 3 cps. Generally, the viscosity increases
with increasing molecular weight. See Meer Corporation, "An Introduction to
Polyhydrocolloids." Hydrocolloid gums most useful are those where the hydrocolloid is a
polysaccharide hydrocolloid which is chemically designated as galactomannan. Galactomannans
are polysaccharides consisting of long chains of (1-04) - 13-D-mannopyranosyl units to which
                                                   -140-

single unit side chains of a-D-galactopyranosyl are joined by (1-06) linkages. Galactomannans
are found in a variety of plants but differ in molecular size and the number of D-galactosyl side
chains. The galactomannans useful in this invention are commonly found in the endosperms of
the leguminosae.
[00270]    Galactomannan can be obtained, for example, from the cyamopsis tetragonolobus,
commonly referred to as guar. This exhibits a percentage mannose residue of about 64% with a
percent galactose residue of about 36%. Commercially available guar gum is about 66-82%
galactomannan polysaccharide with impurities making up the remainder of the composition.
According to the National Formulary (NF) standards the guar gum may contain up to 15% w
water, up to 10% w protein, up to 7% w acid insoluble material and up to about 1.5% ash.
Sources of commercially available guar gum are Aqualon Company, Wilmington, Del.; Meer
Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio; Stein Hall & Company and TIC Gums, Inc., Belcamp, Md.
 [00271]   Other hydrocolloids are known in the art. See for example "The Chemistry of Plant
Gums and Mucilages". by Smith and Montgomery from the A.C.S. Monograph series, #141,
 1959, Reinhold Publishing Co. and the Eighteenth Edition of The Merck Index. In general, the
amount of the hydrocolloid that will be used is an amount that allows the composition to traverse
the upper GI tract without significant disintegration and without releasing significant amounts of
active ingredient in the upper GI tract, i.e. to provide a delayed-release profile. Generally, that
amount of hydrocolloid will be more than about 50% but less than about 98%. Depending on
individual variability, whether a patient has eaten or has fasted, and other factors, a tablet will
traverse the stomach and upper intestinal tract in about 3 to 6 hours. During this time, little active
ingredient (less than 20%, preferably less than 10%) is released from the tablet of this invention.
Once the tablet reaches the lower GI, the release of the active ingredient is triggered by
enzymatic degradation of the galactomannan gum.
[00272]    One non-limiting example of a formulation for upper gastrointestinal delivery
comprises a free-flowing slow release granulation for use as a pharmaceutical excipient that
includes from about 20 to about 70 percent or more by weight of a hydrophilic material that
includes a heteropolysaccharide (such as, for example, xanthan gum or a derivative thereof) and
a polysaccharide material capable of cross-linking the heteropolysaccharide (such as, for
example, galactomannans, and most preferably locust bean gum) in the presence of aqueous
                                                 - 141 -

solutions, and from about 30 to about 80 percent by weight of an inert pharmaceutical-filler
(such as, for example, lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, xylitol, fructose or mixtures thereof).
After mixing the excipient with the compounds of the invention, the mixture is directly
compressed into solid dosage forms such as tablets. The tablets thus formed slowly release the
medicament when ingested and exposed to gastric fluids. By varying the amount of excipient
 relative to the medicament, a slow release profile can be attained.
 [00273]     One non-limiting example of a sustained gastrointestinal delivery formulation'
 comprises a plurality of particles of a dispersion of a limited solubility active ingredient in a
 hydrophilic, water-swellable, crosslinked polymer that maintains its physical integrity over the
 dosing lifetime but thereafter rapidly dissolves. Once ingested, the particles swell to promote
 gastric retention and permit the gastric fluid to penetrate the particles, dissolve active ingredient
 and leach it from the particles, assuring that active ingredient reaches the stomach in the solution
 state which is less injurious to the stomach than solid-state active ingredient. The programmed
 eventual dissolution of the polymer depends upon the nature of the polymer and the degree of
 crosslinking The polymer is nonfibrillar and substantially water soluble in its uncrosslinked state,
 and the degree of crosslinking is sufficient to enable the polymer to remain insoluble for the
 desired time period. Examples of suitable crosslinked polymers that may be used in the invention
 are gelatin, albumin, sodium alginate, carboxymethyl cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, and chitin.
Depending upon the polymer, crosslinking may be achieved by thermal or radiation treatment or
through the use of crosslinking agents such as aldehydes, polyamino acids, metal ions and the
like.
 [00274]     In another non-limiting example, Villa et al., in U.S. Pat. No. 6,773,720, describes a
modified-release system containing an inner lipophilic matrix where an active ingredient is
inglobated and an outer hydrophilic matrix in which the lipophilic matrix is dispersed. An active
ingredient, such as a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound, is first inglobated in a low
melting lipophlilic excipient or mixture of excipients while heating to soften and/or melt the
excipient itself, which thereby incorporates the active ingredient by simple dispersion. After
cooling at room temperature, an inert matrix forms, which can be reduced in size to obtain matrix
granules containing the active ingredient particles. The inert matrix granules are subsequently
mixed together with one or more hydrophilic water-swellable excipients. In this respect, when
the composition is contacted with biological fluids, a high viscosity swollen layer is formed,
                                                 -142-

which coordinates the solvent molecules and acts as a barrier to penetration of the aqueous fluid
itself inside the new structure. Said barrier antagonizes the staring "burst effect" caused by
dissolution of the active ingredient inglobated inside the inert matrix, which is in its turn inside
the hydrophilic matrix. One commercially available system of this type is from Cosmo
Technologies Limited (Italy) under the trade name MMX@ technology. The
lipophilic/hydrophilic matrices can be further enterically coated for pH specific delivery.
[002751 Formulations for upper intestinal delivery, lower intestinal delivery or both are known
in the art. Targeting of active ingredients to various regions of the gut is described, e.g., in The
Encyclopedia of Pharmaceutical Technology, by James Swarbrick and James Boylan, Informa
Health Care, 1999, at pp. 287-308. Any suitable formulation for gastrointestinal delivery for site
specific delivery and/or specific temporal delivery (i.e. delayed, controlled, extended, or
sustained release) can be used with the invention and is contemplated herein. In one non-limiting
example, a single composition comprises a first formulation for delivery of at least one the
compound to the upper gastrointestinal tract and a second formulation for delivery of at least one
compound to the lower gastrointestinal tract. Thus, a single composition can provide for delivery
of one or more biguanide or related heterocyclic compound(s) to the upper and lower
gastrointestinal tract. Additional non-limiting examples include compositions having
formulations for delivery of at least one the compounds to the upper gastrointestinal tract and
compositions having formulations for delivery of at least one the compounds to the lower
gastrointestinal tract. As described herein, different combinations of the compoundscan be
formulated for treatment of specific conditions and for delivery to specific locations in the
intestinal tract.
[002761     Any of the delivery systems described herein may be used in combination with others
to achieve multiple releases and/or specific release profiles. In some embodiments, the active
agent(s) is in a formulation that achieves multiple releases in the gastrointestinal locations
following administration. In certain embodiments, the active agent(s) is in a multiple release
formulation that releases at an onset of about 120 minutes, about 180 minutes, about 240
minutes, or combinations thereof following administration. In certain embodiments, the active
agent(s) is in a multiple release formulation that releases at an onset of about 75 minutes, about
105 to about 135 minutes, about 165 to about 195 minutes, about 225 to about 255 minutes, or
combinations thereof following administration. In certain embodiments, the active agent(s) is in
                                                 - 143 -

a multiple release formulation that releases in the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, lower intestine or
combinations thereof following administration. In yet other embodiments, the active agent(s) is
in a multiple release formulation that releases at an onset of about pH 5.5, about pH 6.0, at about
pH 6.5, about pH 7.0, or combinations thereof following administration. In yet other
embodiments, the active agent(s) is in a multiple release formulation that releases in ranges at
about pH 5.0 to about pH 6.0, about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0, about pH 7.0 to about pH 8.0, or
combinations thereof following administration. In yet other embodiments, the active agent(s) is
in a multiple release formulation that releases a fraction or portion of the active agent(s) as an
immediate release with the rest of the active agent(s) released by a modified manner described
herein.
Excipients
 [00277]    Any of the compositions or formulations described herein include any commonly used
excipients in pharmaceutics and are selected on the basis of compatibility with the active agent(s)
and release profile properties of the desired dosage form. Excipients include, but are not limited
to, binders, fillers, flow aids/glidents, disintegrants, lubricants, stabilizers, surfactants, and the
like. A summary of excipients described herein, may be found, for example in Remington: The
Science and Practice of Pharmacy, Nineteeth Ed (Easton, PA: Mack Publishing Company,
 1995); Hoover, John E., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, (Easton, PA: Mack Publishing
Co 1975); Liberman, H.A. and Lachman, L., Eds., Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms (New York,
NY: Marcel Decker 1980); and Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems,
Seventh Ed (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 1999), herein incorporated by reference in their
entirety.
[00278]     Binders impart cohesive qualities and include, e.g., alginic acid and salts thereof;
cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose (e.g., Methocel@),
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (e.g., Klucel@),
ethylcellulose (e.g., Ethocel@), and microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., Avicel); microcrystalline
dextrose; amylose; magnesium aluminum silicate; polysaccharide acids; bentonites; gelatin;
polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer; crospovidone; povidone; starch; pregelatinized
starch; tragacanth, dextrin, a sugar, such as sucrose (e.g., Dipac@), glucose, dextrose, molasses,
                                                  -144-

mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol (e.g., Xylitab@), and lactose; a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia,
tragacanth, ghatti gum, mucilage of isapol husks, polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g., Polyvidone@ CL,
Kollidon@ CL, Polyplasdone@ XL-10), larch arabogalactan, Veegum@, polyethylene glycol,
waxes, sodium alginate, and the like.
[002791    Disintegrants facilitate breakup or disintegration of oral solid dosage forms after
administration. Examples of disintegrants include a starch, e.g., a natural starch such as corn
starch or potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel@, or sodium
starch glycolate such as Promogel@ or Explotab@; a cellulose such as a wood product,
methylcrystalline cellulose, e.g., Avicel, Avicel@ PHIO, Avicel@ PH102, Avicel PH105,
Elcema P100, Emcocel@, Vivacel@, Ming Tia, and Solka-Floc, methylcellulose,
croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose
(Ac-Di-Sol), cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose; a cross
linked starch such as sodium starch glycolate; a cross-linked polymer such as crospovidone; a
cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone; alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as
sodium alginate; a clay such as Veegum@ HV (magnesium aluminum silicate); a gum such as
agar, guar, locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth; sodium starch glycolate; bentonite; a
natural sponge; a resin such as a cation-exchange resin; citrus pulp; sodium lauryl sulfate;
sodium lauryl sulfate in combination starch; and the like.
[002801    Lubricants are compounds which prevent, reduce or inhibit adhesion or friction of
materials. Exemplary lubricants include, e.g., stearic acid; calcium hydroxide; talc; sodium
stearyl fumerate; a hydrocarbon such as mineral oil, hydrogenated castor oil or hydrogenated
vegetable oil such as hydrogenated soybean oil (Sterotex); higher fatty acids and their alkali
metal and alkaline earth metal salts, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium, zinc; stearic acid,
sodium stearates, magnesium stearates, glycerol, talc, waxes, Stearowet@ boric acid, sodium
benzoate, sodium acetate, sodium chloride, leucine, a polyethylene glycol or a
methoxypolyethylene glycol such as CarbowaxTM, ethylene oxide polymers, sodium oleate,
glyceryl behenate (E.g. Compritol 888 Ato), glyceryl disterate (Precirol Ato 5), polyethylene
glycol, magnesium or sodium lauryl sulfate, colloidal silica such as SyloidTM, Carb-O-Sil@, DL
leucine, a starch such as corn starch, silicone oil, a surfactant, and the like.
                                                -145-

[00281]     Flow-aids or glidants improve the flow characteristics of powder mixtures. Such
compounds include, e.g., colloidal silicon dioxide such as Cab-o-sil@; tribasic calcium
phosphate, talc, corn starch, DL-leucine, sodium lauryl sulfate, magnesium stearate, calcium
stearate, sodium stearate, kaolin, and micronized amorphous silicon dioxide (Syloid@D)and the
like.
[00282]     Plasticizers aid in coating of oral solid dosage forms. Exemplary plasticizers include,
but are not limited to, triethyl citrate, triacetin (glyceryl triacetate), acetyl triethyl citrate,
polyethylene glycols (PEG 4000, PEG 6000, PEG 8000), Carbowax 400 (polyethylene glycol
400), diethyl phthalate, diethyl sebacate, acetyltriethylcitrate, oleic acid, glyceralmonosterate,
tributyl citrate, acetylated monoglycerides, glycerol, fatty acid esters, propylene glycol, and
dibutyl phthalate and the like.
[00283]     The aforementioned excipients are given as examples only and are not meant to
include all possible choices. Other suitable excipient classes include coloring agents, granulating
agents, preservatives, anti-foaming agents, solubulizers and the like. Additionally, many
excipients can have more than one role or function, or can be classified in more than one group;
the classifications are descriptive only, and are not intended to limit any use of a particular
excipient.
Methods for Evaluating Treatment
Hormonal Profiles
[00284]     Administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition(s)
provided herein modulates hormone concentrations and/or concentrations of hormones including,
but not limited to, GLP-1, GLP-2, GIP, oxyntomodulin, PYY, CCK, glycentin, insulin, glucagon,
ghrelin, amylin, C-peptide and uroguanylin. Sampling of hormones can be performed frequently
during the administration of compounds. Test animals and subjects can be studied with and
without systemic inhibition of dipeptidyl-peptidase IV (DPP-IV) to augment the circulating half
life of the relevant hormones that can be degraded by DPP-IV.
[00285]     By way of example, certain embodiments of the methods described herein provide for
glucose lowering, wherein hormonal profiles suited for treating elevated blood glucose are
                                                   -146-

composed of, but not limited to: 1) GLP-1 with circulating concentrations over 1.5-fold basal
concentrations; 2) GIP with circulating concentrations over 1.5-fold basal concentrations and 3)
PYY 3-36 circulating concentrations over 1.5-fold basal concentrations.
 [00286]     In another example, certain embodiments of the methods described herein provide for
weight loss, wherein hormonal profiles suited for weight loss are composed of, but not limited
to: 1) PYY with circulating concentrations over 3-fold basal concentrations; 2) Oxyntomodulin
with circulating concentrations over 2-fold basal concentrations; 3) GPL-1 with circulating
concentrations over 3-fold basal concentrations; and 4) CCK with circulating concentrations over
2-fold basal concentrations.
 [002871     In another example, certain embodiments of the methods described, hormonal profiles
include: 1) PYY (total) with circulating concentrations over 3-fold basal concentrations; and 2)
GLP-1 (active) with circulating concentrations over 3-fold basal concentrations.
 [00288]     In certain embodiments described herein, methods are provided for modulating
hormone concentrations in a subject comprising the administration of a composition comprising
a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound, said composition being adapted to deliver said
compound to one or more regions of the intestine of said subject. In some embodiments,
administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition(s) as provided herein
modulates circulating hormone concentrations of at least one, at least two, at least three, at least
four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least
eleven, at least twelve, or at least thirteen hormones. In certain embodiments, administration of
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound composition(s) as provided herein increases
circulating hormone concentrations of at least one, at least two, at least three, at least four, at
least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least eleven, at
least twelve, or at least thirteen hormones. In certain embodiments, administration of biguanide
or related heterocyclic compound composition(s) as provided herein decreases circulating
hormone concentrations of at least one, at least two, at least three, at least four, at least five, at
least six, at least at least seven hormones. In some embodiments, administration of biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound compositions modulates GLP-1. In some embodiments,
administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions modulates GLP-2.
In some embodiments, administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
                                                    -147-

compositions modulates GIP. In some embodiments, administration of biguanide or related
heterocyclic compound compositions modulates oxyntomodulin. In some embodiments,
administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions modulates PYY. In
some embodiments, administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions
modulates CCK. In some embodiments, administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound compositions modulates glycentin. In some embodiments, administration of
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions modulates insulin. In some
embodiments, administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions
modulates glucagon. In some embodiments, administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic
compound compositions modulates, ghrelin. In some embodiments, administration of biguanide
or related heterocyclic compound compositions modulates amylin. In some embodiments,
administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound compositions modulates insulin.
In some embodiments, administration of biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
compositions modulates C-peptide. In some embodiments, administration of biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound compositions modulates uroguanylin.
Hormone Assays
[00289]    In embodiments, the levels of hormones assayed in association with the methods of
the invention, including, but not limited to, GLP- 1, GLP-2, GIP, oxyntomodulin, PYY, CCK,
glycentin, insulin, glucagon, ghrelin, amylin, uroguanylin, C-peptide and/or combinations
thereof are detected according to standard methods described in the literature. For example,
proteins can be measured by immunological assays, and transcription products by nucleic acid
amplification techniques. Functional assays described in the art can also be used as appropriate.
In embodiments, samples assayed comprise cultured cells, patient cell or tissue samples, patient
body fluids, e.g., blood or plasma, etc. Similarly, the levels of analytes (e.g., glucose,
triglycerides, HDL, LDL, apoB and the like) assayed in association with the methods of the
invention are detected according to any known method.
[00290]    For example, immunofluorescence can be used to assay for GLP-1. Cells can be
grown on matrigel-coated cover slips to confluent monolayers in 12-well plates at 37'C, fixed in
4% paraformaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and incubated with primary antiserum
                                               -148-

 (e.g., rabbit anti-alpha gustducin, 1:150; Santa Cruz Biotechnology, and rabbit anti-GLP-1,
 Phoenix) overnight at 4'C following permeabilization with 0.4% Triton-X in PBS for 10 minutes
 and blocking for 1 hour at room temperature. Following three washing steps with blocking
 buffer, the appropriate secondary antibody is applied (AlexaFluor 488 anti-rabbit
 immunoglobulin, 1:1000; Molecular Probes) for I hour at room temperature. After three
 washing steps, the cells can be fixed in Vectashield medium and the immunofluorescence
 visualized.
 [00291]     GLP-1 RNA isolated from cells can be assayed using RT-PCR. RT-PCR RNA
 isolation from cells can be performed using standard methodology. The RT-PCR reaction can be
 performed in a volume of 50 1 l in a Peltier thermal cycler (PTC-225 DNA Engine Tetrad Cycler;
 MJ Research), using published primer sequences (Integrated DNA Technologies). Reverse
transcription can be performed at 50'C for 30 minutes; after an initial activation step at 95'C for
 15 minutes. PCR can be performed by denaturing at 94'C for 1 minute, annealing at 55'C for 1
minute and extension at 72'C for 1 minute for 40 cycles, followed by a final extension step at
72'C for 10 minutes. Negative controls can be included as appropriate, for example, by
substituting water for the omitted reverse transcriptase or template. The control can be RNA
isolated from, e.g., rat lingual epithelium. PCR products can be separated in 2% agarose gel with
ethidium bromide, and visualized under UV light.
 [00292]    Radioimmunoassay (RIA) for total GLP-1 in patient blood samples can be performed
as described in the art, e.g., by Laferrere, et al., 2007, "Incretin Levels and Effect are Markedly
Enhanced 1 Month after Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Surgery in Obese Patients with Type 2
Diabetes, Diabetes Care 30(7):1709-1716 (using commercially available materials obtained from
Phoenix Pharmaceutical, Belmont, CA). The authors describe measuring the effect of GIP and
GLP-1 on secretion of insulin by measuring the difference in insulin secretion (area under the
curve, or AUC) in response to an oral glucose tolerance test and to an isoglycemic intravenous
glucose test.
[002931     Measurement of plasma concentrations of GLP-1, GIP, glucagon, insulin, C peptide,
pancreatic peptide, nonesterified fatty acids, glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies, and islet
antigen antibodies, is described, e.g., by Toft-Nielsen, et al., 2001, "Determinants of the
Impaired Secretion of Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 in Type 2 Diabetic Patients," J. Clin. End. Met.
                                                  -149-

86(8):3717-3723. The authors describe the use of radioimmunoassay for GLP-1 to measure
plasma concentrations of amidated GLP-1-(7-36), using antibody code no. 89390. This assay
measures the sum of GLP-1-(7-36) and its metabolite GLP-1-(9-36). The authors describe
measurement of GIP using C-terminally directed antibody code no. R65 (RIA), that reacts 100%
with a human GIP but not with 8-kDA GIP.
[00294]     GLP-1 and PYY can be directly assayed in the supernatant from venous effluents as
described by, e.g., Claustre, et al. (1999, "Stimulatory effect of p-adrenergic agonists on ileal L
cell secretion and modulation by a-adrenergic activation, J. Endocrin. 162:271-8). (See also
Plaisancie' et al., 1994, "Regulation of glucagon-like peptide-1-(7-36) amide secretion by
intestinal neurotransmitters and hormones in the isolated vascularly perfused rat colon,"
Endocrinology 135:2398-2403 and Plaisancie' et al., 1995, "Release of peptide YY by
neurotransmitters and gut hormones in the isolated, vascularly perfused rat colon," Scandinavian
Journal of Gastroenterology 30:568-574.) In this method, the 199D anti-GLP-1 antibody is used
at a 1:250 000 dilution. This antibody reacts 100% with GLP-1-(7-36) amide, 84% with GLP-1
(1-36) amide, and less than 0 1%with GLP-1-(1-37), GLP-1-(7-37), GLP-2, and glucagon.
PYY is assayed with the A4D anti-porcine PYY antiserum at a 1:800 000 dilution.
[002951     Methods for assaying GLP-1 and GIP are also described elsewhere in the art, e.g., by
Jang, et al., PNAS, 2007.
[00296]     PYY can also be assayed in blood using a radioimmunoassay as described by, e.g.,
Weickert, et al., 2006, "Soy isoflavones increase preprandial peptide YY (PYY), but have no
effect on ghrelin and body weight in healthy postmenopausal women" Journal of Negative
Results in BioMedicine, 5:11. Blood is collected in ice-chilled EDTA tubes for the analysis of
glucose, ghrelin, and PYY. Following centrifugation at 1600 g for 10 minutes at 40C, aliquots
were immediately frozen at -20 0 C until assayed. All samples from individual subjects were
measured in the same assay. The authors described measuring immunoreactive total ghrelin was
measured by a commercially available radioimmunoassay (Phoenix Pharmaceuticals, Mountain
View, CA, USA). (See also Weickert, et al., 2006, "Cereal fiber improves whole-body insulin
sensitivity in overweight and obese women," Diabetes Care 29:775-780). Immunoreactive total
human PYY is measured by a commercially available radioimmunoassay (LINCO Research,
Missouri, USA), using 1251-labeled bioactive PYY as tracer and a PYY antiserum to determine
                                                -150-

 the level of active PYY by the double antibody/PEG technique. The PYY antibody is raised in
 guinea pigs and recognizes both the PYY 1-36 and PYY 3-36 (active) forms of human PYY.
 [002971     SGLT-1, the intestinal sodium-dependent glucose transporter 1, is a protein involved
 in providing glucose to the body. It has been reported to be expressed in response to sugar in the
 lumen of the gut, through a pathway involving T1R3 (Margolskee, et al., 2007 "T1R3 and
 gustducin in gut sense sugars to regulate expression of Na+-glucose cotransporter 1," Proc Natl
 Acad Sci USA 104, 15075-15080"). Expression of SGLT-1 can be detected as described, e.g.,
 by Margolskee, et al., for example, using quantitative PCR and Western Blotting methods known
 in the art. Measurement of glucose transport has been described in the literature, e.g., by Dyer,
 et al., 1997, Gut 41:56-9 and Dyer, et al., 2003, Eur. J. Biochem 270:3377-88. Measurement of
 glucose transport in brush border membrane vesicles can be made, e.g., by initiating D-glucose
 uptake by the addition of 100 R1 of incubation medium containing 100 mM NaSCN (or KSCN),
 100 mM mannitol, 20 mM Hepes/Tris (pH 7.4), 0.1 mM MgSO4, 0.02% (wt/vol) NaN3, and 0.1
 mM D-[Ul4C]glucose to BBMV (100 Rg of protein). The reaction is stopped after 3 sec by
 addition of 1 ml of ice-cold stop buffer, containing 150 mM KSCN, 20 mM Hepes/Tris (pH 7.4),
 0.1 mM MgSO4, 0.02% (wt/vol) NaN3, and 0.1 mM phlorizin. A 0.9-ml portion of the reaction
 mixture is removed and filtered under vacuum through a 0.22-jim pore cellulose acetate/nitrate
 filter (GSTF02500; Millipore, Bedford, MA). The filter is washed five times with 1 ml of stop
 buffer, and the radioactivity retained on the filter is measured by liquid scintillation counting.
Evaluation of Treatment of Diabetes
 [002981     The effect of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound treatment of the invention
on aspects of diabetic disease can be evaluated according to methods known in the art and
common practiced by physicians treating diabetic subjects.
 [00299]    Efficacy of treatment of diabetes/metabolic syndrome and diabetes-associated
conditions with the compositions and methods described herein can be assessed using assays and
methodologies known in the art. By way of example, quantitative assessment of renal function
and parameters of renal dysfunction are well known in the art. Examples of assays for the
determination of renal function/dysfunction include serum creatinine level; creatinine clearance
rate; cystatin C clearance rate, 24-hour urinary creatinine clearance, 24-hour urinary protein
                                                 - 151  -

 secretion; Glomerular filtration rate (GFR); urinary albumin creatinine ratio (ACR); albumin
 excretion rate (AER); and renal biopsy.
 [00300]     Quantitative assessment of pancreatic. function and parameters of pancreatic
 dysfunction or insufficiency are also well known in the art. Examples of assays for the
 determination of pancreas function/dysfunction include evaluating pancreatic functions using
 biological and/or physiological parameters such as assessment of islets of Langerhans size,
 growth and/or secreting activity, beta-cells size, growth and/or secreting activity, insulin
 secretion and circulating blood levels, glucose blood levels, imaging of the pancreas, and
 pancreas biopsy, glucose uptake studies by oral glucose challenge, assessment of cytokine
 profiles, blood-gas analysis, extent of blood-perfusion of tissues, and angiogenesis within tissues.
 [003011     Additional assays for treatment of diabetes and diabetes-associated conditions are
 known in the art and are contemplated herein.
 Evaluation of Treatment of Obesity and Eating Disorders
 [003021     In treatment of obesity it is desired that weight and/or fat is reduced in a subject. By
 reducing weight it is meant that the subject loses a portion of his/her total body weight over the
 course of treatment (whether the course of treatment be days, weeks, months or years).
Alternatively, reducing weight can be defined as a decrease in proportion of fat mass to lean
mass (in other words, the subject has lost fat mass, but maintained or gained lean mass, without
necessarily a corresponding loss in total body weight). An effective amount of a biguanide or
related heterocyclic compound treatment administered in this embodiment is an amount effective
to reduce a subject's body weight over the course of the treatment, or alternatively an amount
effective to reduce the subject's percentage of fat mass over the course of the treatment. In
certain embodiments, the subject's body weight is reduced, over the course of treatment, by at
least about 1%, by at least about 5%, by at least about 10%, by at least about 15%, or by at least
about 20%. Alternatively, the subject's percentage of fat mass is reduced, over the course of
treatment, by at least 1%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, or at least 25%.
[00303]     Total body weight and fat content can be measured at the end of the dietary period. In
rats, a frequently used method to determine total body fat is to surgically remove and weigh the
                                                  -152-

 retroperitoneal fat pad, a body of fat located in the retroperitoneum, the area between the
 posterior abdominal wall and the posterior parietal peritoneum. The pad weight is considered to
 be directly related to percent body fat of the animal. Since the relationship between body weight
 and body fat in rats is linear, obese animals have a correspondingly higher percent of body fat
 and retroperitoneal fat pad weight.
 [00304]     In embodiments wherein methods of treating, reducing, or preventing food cravings in
 a subject are provided, food cravings can be measured by using a questionnaire, whether known
 in the art or created by the person studying the food cravings. Such a questionnaire would
 preferably rank the level of food cravings on a numerical scale, with the subject marking 0 if
 they have no food cravings, and marking (if on a scale of 1-10) 10 if the subject has severe food
 cravings. The questionnaire would preferably also include questions as to what types of food the
 subject is craving.
 [00305]     Binge eating can be determined or measured using a questionnaire and a Binge Eating
 Scale (BES). Binge eating severity can be divided into three categories (mild, moderate, and
 severe) based on the total BES score (calculated by summing the scores for each individual
 item). Accordingly, methods are provided for reducing the BES score of a subject comprising
 administering to a subject in need thereof a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound
 treatment in an amount effective to reduce the BES score of the subject. In some embodiments,
 administration of a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound treatment changes the BES
 category of the subject, for example, from severe to moderate, from severe to mild, or from
moderate to mild.
Pre-treatment Evaluation of Patient Hormonal Profile
 [00306]     In some embodiments, patients are pre-evaluated for expression of metabolic
hormones using methods described herein. The therapy provided to the individual can thus be
targeted to his or her specific needs. In embodiments, a patient's hormonal profile is pre
evaluated and depending on the changes that the physician desires to affect, a certain biguanide
or related heterocyclic compound/metabolite combination is administered. The evaluation
process can be repeated and the treatment adjusted accordingly at any time during or following
treatment.
                                                 - 153 -

Definitions
[003071     "Chemosensory receptor" as used herein includes, e.g., the G-protein coupled
receptors (GPCRs) that are expressed in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject. Chemosensory
receptors include the taste receptor family and are further categorized according to their taste
characteristics. They include sweet receptors, umami receptors (also known as savory
receptors), bitter receptors, fat receptors, bile acid receptors, salty receptors, and sour receptors.
A chemosensory receptor can be any receptor associated with chemosensory sensation or
chemosensory ligand triggered signal transduction, e.g., via taste receptors or taste related
receptors present in taste bud, gastrointestinal tract, etc.
[00308]     "Activity," or "functional effects" in the context of the disclosed ligands and assays
for testing compounds that modulate a chemosensory receptor, e.g., enhance a chemosensory
receptor family member mediated signal transduction such as sweet, umami, bitter, fat, bile acid,
sour or salty receptor functional effects or activity, includes the determination of any parameter
that is indirectly or directly under the influence of the particular chemosensory receptor. It
includes, without any limitation, ligand binding, changes in ion flux, membrane potential, current
flow, transcription, G protein binding, GPCR phosphorylation or dephosphorylation, signal
transduction, receptor-ligand interactions, second messenger concentrations (e.g., cAMP, cGMP,
IP3, or intracellular Ca2+), in vitro, in vivo, and ex vivo and also includes other physiologic
effects such as increases or decreases of neurotransmitter or hormone release and the
measurement of the downstream physiological effects of such release.
[003091     The term "determining the functional effect" or receptor "activity" means assays for a
compound that increases or decreases a parameter that is indirectly or directly under the
influence of a chemosensory receptor, e.g., functional, physical and chemical effects. Such
parameters also include secretion of hormones such as GIP, GLP-1, GLP-2, oxyntomodulin,
insulin, glucagon, insulin peptide C, peptide YY, and CCK. Such functional effects can be
measured by any means known to those skilled in the art, e.g., changes in spectroscopic
characteristics (e.g., fluorescence, absorbance, refractive index), hydrodynamic (e.g., shape),
chromatographic, or solubility properties, patch clamping, voltage-sensitive dyes, whole cell
currents, radioisotope efflux, inducible markers, oocyte chemosensory receptor, e.g., TIR gene
expression; tissue culture cell chemosensory receptor, e.g., TIR expression; transcriptional
                                                 -154-

activation of chemosensory receptor, e.g., TiR genes; ligand binding assays; voltage, membrane
potential and conductance changes; ion flux assays; changes in intracellular second messengers
such as cAMP, cGMP, and inositol triphosphate (IP3); changes in intracellular calcium levels;
neurotransmitter release, and the like. Also included are assays to determine increases or
decreases in hormone or neurotransmitter secretion and/or activity. Changes in hormone or
neurotransmitter secretion and/or activity can also be determined indirectly by the physiological
effects caused by changes in the secretion of hormone or neurotransmitter. Functional and
physical parameters that can be used to determine the functional effect or receptor activity
include, but is not limited to, appetite suppression and weight loss.
[003101     Chemosensory receptor ligands include metabolized chemosensory receptor ligands
that can be metabolized as an energy source, e.g. food or metabolites, as well as nonmetabolized
chemosensory receptor ligands that are not metabolized as an energy source, e.g. tastants. The
term nonmetabolized chemosensory receptor ligands, as used herein, includes chemosensory
receptor ligands that are metabolized to a small degree but are not metabolized substantially.
That is, nonmetabolized chemosensory receptor ligand includes ligands that have insignificant
caloric value. Chemosensory receptor ligands include agonists, antagonists, modifiers, and
enhancers as well as other compounds that modulate chemosensory receptors. Many
chemosensory receptor ligands are known in the art and have been reported in the literature.
[003111     "Tastants" as used herein refers to any ligand that induces a flavor or taste in a subject,
including sweet, sour, salty, bitter, umami and others. Tastants are also generally
nonmetabolized in the sense that they have no significant caloric value.
[00312]     "Metabolites" as used herein are metabolized chemosensory receptor ligands such as,
for example, glucose, glutamate salts, fatty acids and bile acids. In certain aspects, metabolites
can be derived from a food source. Metabolites can be administered as part of a chemosensory
receptor ligand composition or separately.
[00313]     Antagonists/inhibitors are compounds that, e.g., bind to, partially or totally block
stimulation, decrease, prevent, delay activation, inactivate, desensitize, or down -regulate
chemosensory receptor and/or taste transduction. Agonists/activators are compounds that, e.g.,
bind to, stimulate, increase, open, activate, facilitate, enhance activation, sensitize, or up regulate
chemosensory receptor signal transduction.
                                                 -155-

[003141     Modifiers include compounds that, e.g., alter, directly or indirectly, the activity of a
receptor or the interaction of a receptor with its ligands, e.g., receptor ligands, biguanide or
related heterocyclic compounds, and optionally bind to or interact with activators or inhibitors; G
Proteins; kinases (e.g., homologs of rhodopsin kinase and beta adrenergic receptor kinases that
are involved in deactivation and desensitization of a receptor); and arresting, which also
deactivate and desensitize receptors. Modifiers include genetically modified versions of
chemosensory receptors, e.g., TIR family members, e.g., with altered activity, as well as
naturally occurring and synthetic ligands, antagonists, agonists, small chemical molecules and
the like. In the present invention this includes, without any limitation, sweet receptor ligands,
umami receptor ligands, bitter receptor ligands, fatty acid ligands, bile receptor ligands, (agonists
or antagonists). Modifiers also include compounds that allosterically bind to a receptor and
change receptor activity. Modifiers also include enhancers. Depending on the structure,
functional and activity properties, modifiers can enhance, potentiate, induce and/or block the
physiological activity other chemosensory receptor ligands.
 [00315]    Enhancers as used herein are a type of modifier and refer to chemosensory receptor
ligands that enhance, potentiate or multiply the effect of another chemosensory receptor ligand.
For example, a sweet receptor enhancer can increase or multiply the sweetness of a
chemosensory receptor ligand composition, when used in combination with a sweet receptor
ligand (e.g., a sweetener, such as sucrose, fructose, glucose, saccharine, aspartame, sucralose,
etc.). While a sweet receptor enhancer may or may not have sweet properties at some
combinations when used in the absence of a sweet receptor ligand, sweet receptor enhancement
occurs when the sweet receptor enhancer is used in combination with another sweet receptor
ligand with the result that the resulting sweetness perceived in a subject is greater than the
additive effects attributable to the sweet receptor enhancer's own sweet properties (if any), plus
the sweetness attributable to the presence of the sweet receptor ligand.
[00316]     The terms "gastrointestinal tract" and "gut," as used herein, refer to the stomach and
intestines. The "small" or "upper" intestine includes the duodenum, jejunum and ileum and the
"large" or "lower" intestine includes the caecum, colon and rectum. "Beyond the stomach"
refers to the small and lower intestines.
                                                -156-

 [00317]    "Treating" or "treatment" of any condition, disease or disorder refers, in some
embodiments, to ameliorating the disease, disorder, or condition (i.e., arresting or reducing the
development of the disease, disorder, or condition, or at least one of the clinical symptoms
thereof). In other embodiments "treating" or "treatment" refers to ameliorating at least one
physical parameter, which may or may not be discernible by the subject, including physical
parameters that are undesired but not clinically significant. In yet other embodiments, "treating"
or "treatment" refers to inhibiting the disease, disorder, or condition, either physically, (e.g.,
stabilization of a discernible symptom), physiologically, (e.g., stabilization of a physical
parameter) or both. In yet other embodiments, "treating" or "treatment" refers to preventing or
to delaying the onset of the disease, disorder, or condition.
 [00318]    "Therapeutically effective amount" or "effective amount" means the amount of a
 composition, compound, therapy, or course of treatment that, when administered to a subject for
treating a disease, disorder, or condition, is sufficient to effect such treatment for the disease,
disorder, or condition. The "therapeutically effective amount" will vary depending on the
composition, the compound, the therapy, the course of treatment, the disease, disorder, or
condition, and its severity and the age, weight, etc., of the subject to be treated.
 [00319]    When the compounds (e.g., compounds of formulae I-IV as well as other compounds
having a described chemical structure) described herein include one or more chiral centers, the
stereochemistry of such chiral centers can independently be in the R or S configuration, or a
mixture of the two. The chiral centers can be further designated as R or S or R,S or d,D, 1,L or
d,l, D,L. Correspondingly, the amide, guanidine, biguanide and related heterocyclic compounds
of the invention, if they can be present in optically active form, can actually be present in the
form of a racemic mixture of enantiomers, or in the form of either of the separate enantiomers in
substantially isolated and purified form, or as a mixture comprising any relative proportions of
the enantiomers.
[00320]     When the amide, guanidine, biguanide and related heterocyclic compounds of the
invention, if they can be present in geometrically isomeric forms around, for example, the
guanide bond, then they can actually be present in the form of a mixture of geometric isomers
comprising any relative proportions of the isomers, or in some cases in the form of either of the
separate geometric isomers in substantially isolated and purified form.
                                                 -157-

 [003211     When the compounds (e.g., compounds of formulae I-IV as well as other compounds
having a described chemical structure) described herein include one or more isolated or linearly
 conjugated double bonds, the geometry around such double bonds can be independently a
 cis/trans, E/Z mixture or an E or Z geometric isomer thereof.
 [003221     "Alkyl" means a straight or branched chain, saturated monovalent hydrocarbon
radical. By way of example, the hydrocarbon chain may have from one to twenty carbons, one
to sixteen carbons, one to fourteen carbons, one to twelve carbons, one to ten carbons, one to
 eight carbons, one to six carbons, one to four carbons, etc. "Lower alkyl" may refer to alkyls
having, e.g., one to six carbons, one to four carbons, etc. In certain examples, an straight chain
 alkyl may have from one to six carbon atoms and a branched alkyl three to six carbon atoms,
e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, 2-propyl, butyl (including all isomeric forms), pentyl (including all
 isomeric forms), and the like. "Me" means methyl, "Et" means ethyl, and "iPr" means isopropyl.
 [003231     "Aryl" means a monovalent monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic hydrocarbon radical,
e.g., having from of 6 to 20 or 6 to 10 ring atoms e.g., phenyl or naphthyl.
 [00324]     "Alkylaryl" means a -(alkylene)-R    radical where R is aryl as defined above.
 [003251     "Cycloalkyl" means a cyclic saturated or partially saturated monovalent hydrocarbon
radical (or an alicyclic radical). By way of example, the cycloalkyl may have from three to
twenty carbon atoms, from three to sixteen carbon atoms, from three to fourteen carbon atoms,
from three to twelve carbon atoms, from three to ten carbon atoms, from three to eight carbon
atoms, from three to six carbon atoms, etc., wherein one or two carbon atoms may be replaced by
an oxo group, e.g., admantanyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl,
indanyl and the like.
[003261     "Alkylcycloalkyl" means a -(alkylene)-R      radical where R is cycloalkyl as defined
above; e.g., cyclopropylmethyl, cyclobutylmethyl, cyclopentylethyl, or cyclohexylmethyl, and
the like.
[00327]     "Heterocyclyl" or "heterocycloalkyl" means a saturated or unsaturated monovalent
monocyclic group, in which one or two ring atoms are heteroatom selected from N, 0, or S, the
remaining ring atoms being C. The heterocyclyl ring is optionally fused to a (one) aryl or
heteroaryl ring as defined herein. The heterocyclyl ring fused to monocyclic aryl or heteroaryl
                                                -158-

ring is also referred to in this Application as "bicyclic heterocyclyl" ring. Additionally, one or
two ring carbon atoms in the heterocyclyl ring can optionally be replaced by a -CO- group. More
specifically the term heterocyclyl includes, but is not limited to, pyrrolidino, piperidino,
homopiperidino, 2-oxopyrrolidinyl, 2-oxopiperidinyl, morpholino, piperazino,
tetrahydropyranyl, thiomorpholino, and the like. When the heterocyclyl ring is unsaturated it can
contain one or two ring double bonds. When the heterocyclyl group contains at least one
nitrogen atom, it is also referred to herein as heterocycloamino and is a subset of the heterocyclyl
group. When the heterocyclyl group is a saturated ring and is not fused to aryl or heteroaryl ring
as stated above, it is also referred to herein as saturated monocyclic heterocyclyl.
 [00328]    "Alkylheterocycloalkyl" means a -(alkylene)-R radical where R is heterocyclyl ring as
defined above e.g., tetraydrofuranylmethyl, piperazinylmethyl, morpholinylethyl, and the like.
 [003291    "Heteroaryl" means a monovalent monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic radical, where one
or more, preferably one, two, or three, ring atoms are heteroatom selected from N, 0, or S, the
remaining ring atoms being carbon. Representative examples include, but are not limited to,
pyrrolyl, thienyl, thiazolyl, imidazolyl, furanyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, pyridinyl,
pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, tetrazolyl, and the like.
[003301     "Oxo" or "carbonyl" means =(O) group or C=O group, respectively.
[003311     The term "substituted" means that the referenced group is substituted with one or more
additional group(s) individually and independently selected from groups described herein. In
some embodiments, an optional substituent is selected from oxo, halogen, -CN, -NH2, -OH,
NH(CH3), -N(CH3)2, alkyl (including straight chain, branched and/or unsaturated alkyl),
substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
fluoroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy,
fluoroalkoxy, -S-alkyl, -S(O)2-alkyl, -CONH((substituted or unsubstituted alkyl) or (substituted
or unsubstituted phenyl)), -CON(H or alkyl)2, -OCON(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl)2,
NHCONH((substituted or unsubstituted alkyl) or (substituted or unsubstituted phenyl)),
NHCOalkyl, -N(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl)CO(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl),
NHCOO(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl), -C(OH)( substituted or unsubstituted alkyl)2, and
C(NH2)(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl)2. In some embodiments, by way of example, an
                                                 -159-

optional substituent is selected from oxo, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, -CN, -NH2, -OH,
NH(CH3), -N(CH3)2, -CH3, - CH2CH3, -CH(CH3)2, -CF3, -CH2CF3, -OCH3, -OCH2CH3,
OCH(CH3)2, -OCF3, - OCH2CF3, - S(O)2-CH3, -CONH2, -CONHCH3, -NHCONHCH3,
COCH3, -COOH and the like. In some embodiments, substituted groups are substituted with
 one, two or three of the preceding groups. In some embodiments, substituted groups are
 substituted with one or two of the preceding groups. In some embodiments, substituted groups
 are substituted with one of the preceding groups. Further, unless stated to the contrary, a formula
 with chemical bonds shown only as solid lines and not as wedges or dashed lines contemplates
 each possible isomer, e.g., each enantiomer and diastereomer, and a mixture of isomers, such as
racemic or scalemic mixtures.
 [003321    In some embodiments, a compound of the disclosure (e.g., compounds of Formulae I
 IV as well as other compounds having a described chemical structure) is present in a
 composition as a salt. In some embodiments, salts are obtained by reacting a compound of the
disclosure with acids. In some other embodiments, pharmaceutically acceptable salts are
obtained by reacting a compound of the disclosure with a base. In other embodiments, the
compounds are used as free-acid or free-base form in the manufacture of the compositions
described herein. The type of salts, include, but are not limited to: (1) acid addition salts, formed
by reacting the free base form of the compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable: inorganic
acid, such as, for example, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid,
metaphosphoric acid, and the like; or with an organic acid, such as, for example, acetic acid,
propionic acid, hexanoic acid, cyclopentanepropionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, lactic
acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, malic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, trifluoroacetic acid,
tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, 3- (4-hydroxybenzoyl)benzoic acid, cinnamic acid,
mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 1,2-ethanedisulfonic acid, 2
hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, 2-naphthalenesulfonic
acid, 4-methylbicyclo-[2.2.2]oct-2-ene-l-carboxylic acid, glucoheptonic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis
(3-hydroxy-2-ene-l-carboxylic acid), 3-phenylpropionic acid, trimethylacetic acid, tertiary
butylacetic acid, lauryl sulfuric acid, gluconic acid, glutamic acid, hydroxynaphthoic acid,
salicylic acid, stearic acid, muconic acid, butyric acid, phenylacetic acid, phenylbutyric acid,
valproic acid, and the like; (2) salts formed when an acidic proton present in the parent
compound is replaced by a metal ion, e.g., an alkali metal ion (e.g. lithium, sodium, potassium),
                                                 -160-

an alkaline earth ion (e.g. magnesium, or calcium), or an aluminum ion. In some cases, the
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound described herein are reacted with an organic base,
such as, but not limited to, ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, tromethamine, N
methylglucamine, dicyclohexylamine, tris(hydroxymethyl)methylamine. In other cases, the
compounds described herein form salts with amino acids such as, but not limited to, arginine,
lysine, and the like. Acceptable inorganic bases used to form salts with compounds that include
an acidic proton, include, but are not limited to, aluminum hydroxide, calcium hydroxide,
potassium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, and the like.
[003331     The term "amino acid" includes any one of the twenty naturally-occurring amino acids
or the D-form of any one of the naturally-occurring amino acids. In addition, the term "amino
acid" also includes other non-naturally occurring amino acids besides the D-amino acids, which
are functional equivalents of the naturally-occurring amino acids. Such non-naturally-occurring
amino acids include, for example, norleucine ("Nle"), norvaline ("Nva"), L- or D-naphthalanine,
ornithine ("Orn"), homoarginine (homoArg) and others well known in the peptide art, such as
those described in M. Bodanzsky, "Principles of Peptide Synthesis," 1st and 2nd Revised Ed.,
Springer-Verlag, New York, N.Y., 1984 and 1993, and Stewart and Young, "Solid Phase Peptide
Synthesis," 2nd Ed., Pierce Chemical Co., Rockford, Ill., 1984, both of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
[003341     Amino acids and amino acid analogs can be purchased commercially (Sigma
Chemical Co.; Advanced Chemtech) or synthesized using methods known in the art.
[003351     In the scope of the embodiments, compounds described herein (e.g., compounds of
formula I-V and the like) include further forms of the compounds such as pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, solvates (including hydrates), amorphous phases, partially crystalline and
crystalline forms (including all polymorphs), prodrugs, metabolites, N-oxides, isotopically
labeled, epimers, pure epimers, epimer mixtures, enantiomers including but not limited to single
enantiomers and enantiomeric diastereomers, meso compounds, stereoisomers, racemic mixtures
and diasteroisomeric mixtures. Compounds described herein having one or more double bonds
include cis/trans isomers, E/Z isomers and geometric isomers. Compounds described herein can
be prepared as a pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed when an acidic proton present in the
parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion, for example an alkali metal ion, an alkaline
                                                -161-

earth ion, or an aluminum ion; or coordinates with an organic base. In addition, the salt forms of
the disclosed compounds can be prepared using salts of the starting materials or intermediates.
[003361     In some embodiments, the compounds described herein include solvent addition forms
or crystal forms thereof, particularly solvates or polymorphs. Solvates contain either
stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and may be formed during the process
of crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, and the like.
Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are formed when the solvent is
alcohol.
[00337]     In some embodiments, the compounds described herein possess one or more
stereocenters and each center exists independently in either the R or S configuration. The
compounds presented herein include all diastereomeric, enantiomeric, and epimeric forms as
well as the appropriate mixtures thereof.
[003381 In some embodiments, sites on the compounds disclosed herein are susceptible to
various metabolic reactions. Therefore incorporation of appropriate substituents at the places of
metabolic reactions will reduce, minimize or eliminate the metabolic pathways. In specific
embodiments, the appropriate substituent to decrease or eliminate the susceptibility of the
aromatic ring to metabolic reactions is, by way of example only, a halogen, deuterium or an alkyl
group.
[00339] In some embodiments, the compounds described herein are isotopically-labeled, which
are identical to those recited in the various formulae and structures presented herein, but for the
fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number
different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. In some embodiments,
one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with deuterium. In some embodiments, metabolic sites
on the compounds described herein are deuterated. In some embodiments, substitution with
deuterium affords certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, such
as, for example, increased in vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements. Throughout the
specification, groups and substituents thereof can be chosen by one skilled in the field to provide
stable moieties and compounds.
                                                -162-

                                            EXAMPLES
 Example 1
Exemplary metformin composition and its administration.
                                           Comp position A
    Chemosensory           Per oral solid dosage
  Receptor Ligand                form (mg)                    Dose (mg)              B.i.d. Daily Total
Metformin HCl                        50                          200                         400
 [00340]    A single oral solid dosage form (e.g., tablet, pill, capsule, and the like) includes the
 listed component(s). A single dose for administration is a set of 4 units of the oral solid dosage
form (e.g., 4 tablets or 4 capsules). Each of the 4 units contains identical active component(s);
however each individual unit is formulated for release at a different pH: pH 5.5, pH 6.0 or pH
6.5. One unit releases approximately 20% of its components in about 15 to about 60 mins after
encountering an intestinal pH of approximately 5.5, and releases the remaining 80% of its
components in about 2 hrs. Another unit releases approximately 20% of its components in about
 15 to about 60 mins after encountering an intestinal pH of approximately 6.0, and releases the
remaining 80% of its components in about 4 hrs. A third unit releases approximately 20% of its
components in about 15 to about 60 mins after encountering an intestinal pH of approximately
6.5, and releases the remaining 80% of its components in about 4 hrs. A fourth unit releases
approximately 20% of its components in about 15 to about 60 mins after encountering an
intestinal pH of approximately 6.0, and releases the remaining 80% of its components in about 7
hrs. B.i.d. dosing occurs at mealtime, typically breakfast or the first meal of the day and dinner
or the third meal of the day.
Bilayer tablet of Composition A
[00341]     The biguanide or related heterocyclic compound of Composition A (metformin) are
formulated into bilayer tablet cores with the excipients as indicated in the following table
(expressed in proportional units).
                                            IR           CR7        CR4        CR2
                  Metformin HCl            60.29         65.2       65.2       65.2
                  Prosol HD90
                                           28.71         9.6        12.0       15.6
                  Pruv
                   P ru v_                  3 .0         3 .0       3 .0        3 .0
                                                 - 163 -

                    Croscarmelose
                    Sodium                    4.0         -
                    Methocel K4M
                                               -         11.0        8.6       5.0
                    Klucel EXF
                                              4.0        4.0         4.0      4.0
 [003421     The IR column of the above table refers to 20% of the mass of the bilayer tablet that
 releases its contents in about 15 to about 60 minutes. CR2, CR4, and CR7 refer to the remaining
 80% of the components that release over approximately 2, 4 or 7 hrs. A bilayer tablet core has
 an IR compound and one of the CR, CR4 or CR7 components. The purity of all ingredients is
 >99.8% and the concentrations of all impurities for all ingredients are significantly below the
 limits set under International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) guidance.
 [00343]     The bilayer tablet cores are coated with the following coating compositions for release
 at the indicated pH in the following table (expressed in proportional units).
                    Composition             IR/CR      IRICR       IR/CR    IR/CR
                                              2hr        4hr        4hr       7hr
                                            pH 5.5     pH 6.0      pH 6.5   pH 6.0
                   Eudragit L30 D55          833.4     750.06      625.05   750.06
                   Eudragit FS 30D             0        83.34      208.35    83.34
                   Talc                                       125.0
                   Triethylcitrate                            25.0
                   Water                                      1016
 Example2
 [00344]    Exemplary metformin composition combined with additional chemosensory receptor
 ligands and its administration.
                                            Composition D
    Chemosensory           Per oral solid dosage
  Receptor Ligand                form (mg)                   Dose (mg)             B.i.d. Daily Total
Rebaudioside A                       200                        800                       1600
Stevioside                           100                        400                        800
Sucralose                            100                        400                        800
Metformin HCl                        25                         100                        200
L-Glutamine                          50                         200                        400
                                                 -164-

[003451     A single oral solid dosage form (e.g., tablet, pill, capsule, and the like) includes the
listed components. A single dose for administration is a set of 4 units of the oral solid dosage
form (e.g., 4 tablets or 4 capsules). Each of the 4 units contains identical active components;
however each individual unit is formulated for release at a different pH: pH 5.5, pH 6.0 or pH
6.5. One unit releases approximately 20% of its components in about 15 to about 60 mins after
encountering an intestinal pH of approximately 5.5, and releases the remaining 80% of its
components in about 2 hrs. Another unit releases approximately 20% of its components in about
15 to about 60 mins after encountering an intestinal pH of approximately 6.0, and releases the
remaining 80% of its components in about 4 hrs. A third unit releases approximately 20% of its
components in about 15 to about 60 mins after encountering an intestinal pH of approximately
6.5, and releases the remaining 80% of its components in about 4 hrs. A fourth unit releases
approximately 20% of its components in about 15 to about 60 mins after encountering an
intestinal pH of approximately 6.0, and releases the remaining 80% of its components in about 7
hrs. B.i.d. dosing occurs at mealtime, typically breakfast or the first meal of the day and dinner
or the third meal of the day.
Bilayer tablet of Composition B
[00346]     The chemosensory receptor ligands of Composition B (Rebaudioside A, stevioside,
sucralose, Metformin HC and L-glutamine) are formulated into bilayer tablet cores with the
excipients as indicated in the following table (expressed in proportional units).
                                             IR        CR7          CR4         CR2
                   Stevioside              12.65       13.72        13.72      13.72
                   Sucralose               12.65       13.72        13.72      13.72
                   Metformin HCl
                                            3.17        3.43         3.43       3.43
                   L-Glutamine
                                            6.35        6.86         6.86       6.86
                   RebA
                                           25.38       27.45        27.45      27.45
                   Prosol HD90
                                           28.71        9.6          12.0       15.6
                   Pruv
                                             3.0        3.0          3.0         3.0
                   Croscarmelose
                                                 -165-

                    Sodium                     4.0           -          -
                    Methocel K4M
                                                -          11.0        8.6    5.0
                    Klucel EXF
                   1    _     _     _          4.0         4.0         4.0    4.0
 [003471     The IR column of the above table refers to 20% of the mass of the bilayer tablet that
 releases its contents in about 15 to about 60 minutes. CR2, CR4, and CR7 refer to the remaining
 80% of the components that release over approximately 2, 4 or 7 hrs. A bilayer tablet core has
 an IR compound and one of the CR, CR4 or CR7 components. With the exception of stevioside
 (>90 purity), the purity of all ingredients is >99.8% and the concentrations of all impurities for
 all ingredients are significantly below the limits set under International Conference on
 Harmonisation (ICH) guidance.
 [00348]     The bilayer tablet cores are coated with the following coating compositions for release
 at the indicated pH in the following table (expressed in proportional units).
                    Composition              IR/CR       IR/CR       IR/CR  IR/CR
                                               2hr         4hr         4hr    7hr
                                             pH 5.5      pH 6.0      pH 6.5 pH 6.0
                   Eudragit L30 D55           833.4      750.06      625.05 750.06
                   Eudragit FS 30D              0         83.34      208.35  83.34
                   Talc                                         125.0
                   Triethylcitrate                              25.0
                   Water                                        1016
 Example 3
 [003491    Exemplary metformin bilayer tablet composition and its administration.
                                             Composition C
                                   Per layer
   Chemosensory              IR Layer/Enteric
  Receptor Ligand                 layer (mg)               Total Dose (mg)        B.i.d. Daily Total
Metformin HCl                       50/200                        250                     500
                                                   -166-

[00350]     The biguanide or related heterocyclic compound of Composition C (metformin) is
formulated into bilayer tablet cores with the excipients as indicated in the following table
(expressed in proportional units).
                                                          IR         CR4
                               Metformin HCl             60.29       65.2
                               Prosol HD90
                                                         28.71        12.0
                               Pruv
                                                          3.0         3.0
                               Croscarmelose
                               Sodium                     4.0
                               Methocel K4M
                                                           -          8.6
                               Klucel EXF
                                                          4.0         4.0
[00351]     The IR column of the above table refers to the immediate release component of the
bilayer tablet that releases its contents (20% metformin) in about 15 to about 60 minutes. CR4
refer to the remaining 80% of the metformin that release over approximately 4 hrs. The purity of
all ingredients is >99.8% and the concentrations of all impurities for all ingredients are
significantly below the limits set under International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH)
guidance.
[00352]     Both the immediate release and extended release tablet cores of the bilayer tablet are
coated with the one of following coating compositions for release at the indicated pH in the
following table (expressed in proportional units).
                   Composition              pH 5.5      pH 6.0      pH 6.5  pH 6.0
                   Eudragit L30 D55          833.4      750.06      625.05  750.06
                   Eudragit FS 30D             0         83.34      208.35   83.34
                   Talc                                        125.0
                   Triethylcitrate                             25.0
                   Water                                       1016
Example 4
                                                 - 167-

[00353]     PLASMA ABSOPRTION OF METFORMIN IS UNNECESSARY FOR
ENTEROENDOCRINE PRODUCTION OF PYY, GLP-1A AND GLP-1T AND REDUCTION
OF GLUCOSE AND INSULIN
[00354]     Example 4.1 Materials and Methods
                                                                                               of
[003551     Population: Approximately 18 eligible male and female subjects, 18 to 65 years
age, with a BMI of 25.0 to to 35.0 kg/m 2 , were randomized in this study. To be eligible, each
subject also met the following criteria: (a) was not breastfeeding; (b) had a negative pregnancy
test result (human chorionic gonadotropin, beta subunit); (c) surgically sterile, postmenopausal,
or if of childbearing potential, practiced appropriate birth control during the entire duration of the
study; (d) had a physical examination with no clinically significant abnormalities, including but
not limited to the following conditions: (i) Hepatic disease; (ii) Renal disease;
(iii) gastrointestinal disease; (iv) Endocrine disorder, including diabetes; (v) Cardiovascular
disease; (vi) Seizure disorder; (vii) Organ transplantation; and (viii) Chronic infection; and (e) an
ability to understand and willingness to adhere to protocol requirements.
[00356]     Formulations
[003571     A metformin formulation that results in plasma absorption, EFB0026, (500 mg
metformin, no coating; labeled "Metformin" in the figures) and, a metformin formulation that
minimizes plasma absorption, EFB0027, (500 mg metformin with pH 6.5 enteric coating; labeled
"Re-Metformin" in the figures) were supplied to the site as bulk tablets packaged in screw cap
containers labeled with container number and lot number. All study medications were stored in
cool and dry conditions as indicated on the label, and used only as directed by study personnel.
[00358]     Administration
[003591     Study medication was dispensed by an unblinded site pharmacist or study personnel
according a randomization scheme at Visits 2 and 4. At the end of Visits 2 and 4, subjects were
discharged from the clinic with assigned study medications and with instructions for self
administration until they returned for their next study visit (Visit 3 or 5).
[003601     Study medication was administered orally as intact tablets (swallowed whole, not
chewed or crushed), and with water. The first dose and the last two doses of study medication for
each treatment period were administered to subjects by qualified study site personnel (first dose
                                                 -168-

at Visits 2 and 4 and last two doses at Visits 3 and 5). Subjects self-administered the assigned
study medications according to instructions until they returned for their next study visit (Visit 3
or 5).
[003611     Study site personnel contacted subjects by telephone on the second day of dosing of
each treatment period to assess compliance and adverse events through non-directed questioning.
If the subject was experiencing significant gastrointestinal symptoms, at the Investigator's
discretion, subjects were instructed not to dose escalate. Instructions for self-administration of
study medications were as follows:
         -   Take one tablet by mouth with some water tonight before bedtime, one tomorrow
morning, and one tomorrow night before bedtime
         -   Study site personnel will telephone you tomorrow (Day 2) to remind you to increase
your dose for the next day (Day 3) to two tablets in the morning and two tablets before bedtime
and, for the following day (Day 4), two tablets on the morning before you return later that day
for your next visit
         -   When you take your tablets, swallow them whole by mouth with water, and do not
crush or chew your tablets.
[00362]     The procedures performed during the study are listed in the following three tables
below.
                                                - 169-

Table 1: Study Plan (Protocol LCPOC6)
                                                              Treatment Period 1                   Treatment Period 2
                                                        Baseline     Day 2 of     End of Baseline    Day 2 of    End of Period 2    Early
                                                           of       Treatment      Period    of      Treatment                   Termination
                    Evaluation                   Screen Period 1       Period         I   Period 2     Period          Study
                                                         Visit 2 Phone Call [1] Visit 3 Visit 4 Phone Call [1] Termination
                                                                                                                      vici;t 1;
 Fast (>8 Hours Overnight)                         X        X                        X       X                           X
 Informed Consent                                  X
 Complete Medical History                          X
 Physical Examination and Height                   X
 Body Weight and Vital Signs                       X        X                        X       X                           X           X
 Chemistry, Hematology, Urinalysis                 X                                                                     X           X
 Pregnancy Test (Females) [2]                      X                                                                     X           X
 Randomization                                              X
 Timed Blood Sampling [3]                                   X                        X       X                           X
 Study Medication Administration [4]                       X                         X       X                           X
 Dispense Study Medication                                 X      |                          X
 Study Medication Compliance
 Assessment and Collection                                                           X                                   X
 Dose Escalation Phone Call                                              X       |          _|   _       X
 Concomitant Medications Assessment                X        X                        X |     X                           X            X
 [1]    Phone calls to assess compliance and adverse events through non-directed questioning and to remind subjects to dose escalate
  [2]   Pregnancy test required on all female subjects unless subject has had a hysterectomy or is postmenopausal.
 [3]    GLP-1, PYY, plasma glucose, insulin, and triglycerides at Visits 2 and 4; GLP-I, PYY, plasma glucose, insulin, triglycerides and
 metformin at Visits 3 and 5.
After meal challenge at Visit 2 and Visit 4. Evening dose on Day 4 and morning dose on Day 5 at Visit 3 and Visit 5.
                                                                    - 170-

Table 2: Schedule of Standardized Breakfast and Blood Sampling Profile at Visit 2 and Visit
                                                   4
              Time (minutes)        Collect 6-mL blood    Standardized Breakfast
                                        samples [1]         Administration [2]
                      -15                     X
                       -5                     X
                        0                                            x
                      30                      X
                      45                      X
                      60                      X
                      90                      X
                      120                     X
                      150                     X
                      180                     X
                     210                      X
                     240                      X
                     270                      X
                     300                      X
                     330                      X
            [1] 6-mL blood volume total per sampling time point for
                assessment of PYY, GLP-1, plasma glucose, insulin, and
                triglycerides.
            [2] Subjects are to be instructed to consume the standardized
                breakfast within 20 minutes.
                                             - 171 -

Table 3: Day 5 Schedule of Dosing, Standardized Breakfast and Blood Sampling Profile at Visit 3 and
                                                   Visit 5
 Time (minutes)      Collect 6-mL blood        Standardized             Dose Study     Collect 2-mL blood
                         samples [1]            Breakfast               Medication         sample [3]
                                             A               MwiniItrIn
       -245                                                                                     X
       -240                                                                 X
       -120                                                                                     X
        -15                   X
         -5        |                                                                            x
          0                                          X
         30                   X                                                                 X
         45                   X                                                                 X
         60                   X                                                                 X
         90                   X                                                                 x
        120                   X                                                                 X
        150                   X                                                                 x
        180                   X                                                                 X
        210                   X                                                                 X
        240                   X                                                                 X
        270                   X                                                                 X
        300                   X                                                                 X
        330                   X                                                                 X
        360                                                                                     X
        420                                                                                     X
        480        |X
  [1] 6-mL blood volume total per sampling time point for assessment ofPYY, GLP-1, plasma glucose, insulin,
  and triglycerides.
  [2] Subjects are to be instructed to consume the standardized breakfast within 20 minutes.
  [3]2-mL blood volume total per sampling time point for assessment of metformin,
                                                    -172-

 [00363]    Study procedures
 [00364]    Visit 1 Screening Procedures
 [003651    At Visit 1, subjects arrived at the clinic after fasting overnight for at least 8 hours and
the following procedures were performed:
         -   Signed Informed Consent form was obtained
         -   Subject eligibility based on inclusion and exclusion criteria was assessed
         -   Complete medical history, including menopausal status (females) was taken
         -   Concomitant medications were reviewed
         -   Physical examination was performed
         -   Body weight and height were measured
         -   Vital signs (sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and body
temperature) were measured
         -   Blood sample (fasting samples) for clinical chemistry and hematology was collected
         -   Urine for urinalysis was collected
         -   For female subjects of childbearing potential, serum or urine pregnancy test was
performed
 [00366]    Individuals were disqualified if results of any laboratory test are abnormal and
clinically significant as judged by the investigator or medical monitors. Individuals with an
abnormal test may have beene re-evaluated for study enrollment within 2 weeks of Screening by
having that test repeated once with acceptable results as judged by the investigator and medical
monitor (or designees).
[00367]     When all of the screening results were available, individuals were notified by
telephone or other means of their eligibility status. Those who qualifiedwere eligible return to
the clinical study site within 14 days from the start of Screening to be enrolled and randomized
at Visit 2.
[00368]     Visit 2 (Baseline of Treatment Period 1): Enrollment and Randomization
[003691     Subjects arrived at the clinic the evening prior to the standardized meal challenge. The
following procedures were performed:
        -    Study eligibility was confirmed
                                                 -173-

         -   Treatment sequence for eligible subjects were randomized
         -   Concomitant medications and adverse events were reviewed
         -   Vital signs (sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and body
temperature) and body weight were measured
         -   At t=0 min, subjects began consumption of the -1000 kcal standardized breakfast
which was completely consumed within 20 minutes
         -   Fourteen 6-mL blood samples were drawn at the following time-points relative to
administration of the standardized breakfast for PYY, GLP-1, glucose, insulin and triglycerides
 (see Table 2): t= -15, -5, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210, 240, 270, 300, and 330 min
         -   The first dose of randomized study medication (1 tablet) was administered by site
personnel following the last blood draw at 330 minutes
         -   Subjects were dispensed with assigned study medication and instructions to
 self-administer the assigned study medication until their next clinic visit
         -   Subjects returned to the study site with the remainder of their study medications on
the fourth day of the treatment period for Visit 3
 [00370]    On Day 2 of the treatment period, study site personnel madee a scheduled telephone
call to address any questions, to evaluate study medication administration, and to remind the
subject to increase the dose on Day 3 of treatment.
 [00371]    Visit 3 (End of Treatment Period 1)
 [00372]    Subjects arrived at the clinic the evening prior to the standardized meal challenge on
the fourth day of the first treatment period, before the evening dose. The following procedures
were performed at Visit 3:
         - Concomitant medications and adverse events were reviewed
         - Vital signs (sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and body
temperature) and body weight were measured
         - Dinner for the fourth day of the first treatment period was provided to subjects at the
study site
        - The evening dose for the fourth day of the treatment period was administered after
dinner at the study site
        - All unused study medications from subjects after their evening dose were collected
                                                  -174-

          - At t= -240 min the next morning, subjects were administered the last dose of assigned
 study medication for the first treatment period
          - At t-=0 min, subjects began consumption of the -1000 kcal standardized breakfast
 which should be completely consumed within 20 minutes
          - Blood was drawn at t= -245, -120, -15, -5, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210, 240, 270,
 300, 330, 360, 420, and 480 min relative to administration of the standardized breakfast, for
 metformin, and PYY, GLP-1, glucose, insulin and triglycerides (see Table 3 for details)
          - Lunch may have been provided to subjects after the 360 min blood draw
          - Subjects were discharged from the site after finishing Visit 3 procedures, and returned
 to the site for Visit 4 after a washout period of at least 7 but no more than 14 days for baseline
 assessment of Treatment Period 2
 [003731     Visit 4 (Baseline of Treatment Period 2)
 [00374]     Subjects arrived at the clinic the evening prior to the standardized meal challenge. The
 following procedures were performed:
         - Concomitant medications and adverse events were reviewed
         - Vital signs (sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and body
temperature) and body weight were measured
         -    At t=0 min, subjects began consumption of the ~1000 kcal standardized breakfast,
 which was completely consumed within 20 minutes
         -    Fourteen 6-mL blood samples were drawn at the following time-points relative to
administration of the standardized breakfast for PYY, GLP-1, glucose, insulin and triglycerides
(see Table 2): t= -15, -5, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210, 240, 270, 300, and 330 min
         -    The first dose of randomized study medication for the second treatment period (1
tablet) was administered by site personnel following the last blood draw at 330 minutes
         -    Subjects were dispensed the assigned study medication for the second treatment
period with instructions to self-administer the study medication until their next clinic visit
         -    Subjects returned to the study site with the remainder of their study medication on
the fourth day of the second treatment period for Visit 5
                                                  -175-

[00375]     On Day 2 of the treatment period, study site personnel made a scheduled telephone
call to address any questions, to evaluate study medication administration, and to remind the
subject to increase the dose on Day 3 of treatment.
[003761     Visit 5 (End of Treatment Period 2): Study Termination
[00377]     Subjects arrived at the clinic before the evening dose of the fourth day of the second
treatment period. The following procedures were performed at Visit 5:
         -   Concomitant medications and adverse events were reviewed
         -   Vital signs (sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and body
temperature) and body weight were measured
         -   Dinner for the fourth day of the second treatment period was provided to subjects at
the study site
         -   The evening dose for Day 4 of the second treatment period was administered after
dinner at the study site
         -   All unused study medications from subjects after their evening dose were collected
         -   Blood sample for clinical chemistry, hematology, and serum pregnancy test (females
of childbearing potential) was collected
         -   Urine for urinalysis was collected
         -   At t= -240 min the next morning, subjects were administered the last dose of
assigned study medication for the second treatment period
         -   At t=O min, subjects began consumption of the -1000 kcal standardized breakfast
which was completely consumed within 20 minutes
         -   Blood was collected at t= -245, -120, -15, -5, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210, 240,
270, 300, 330, 360, 420, and 480 min relative to administration of the standardized breakfast, for
metformin, and PYY, GLP-1, glucose, insulin and triglycerides (see Appendix 3 for details)
         -   Lunch may have been provided after the 360 min blood draw
                                                 -176-

 [003781    Subjects who complete all study procedures at Visit 5 were considered study
 completers.
 [003791   Early Termination
 [003801    Subjects who withdrew from the study prior to completion of Visit 5 completed early
termination procedures in a timely manner, as follows:
         -   Review of adverse events (AEs) and concomitant medications
         -   Measurement of body weight
         -   Measurement of vital signs (sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate,
and body temperature)
         -   Collection of used and unused study medication
         -  Blood sample collection for clinical chemistry, hematology, and serum pregnancy
test (females of childbearing potential)
         -  Collection of urine samples for urinalysis
 [003811   Pharmacodynamic assessments
[00382]    Blood samples were collected according to the schedules presented in Tables 1, 2, and
3, and as described above. Fasting and postprandial plasma concentrations of gut hormones
GLP- 1 and PYY, as well as concentrations of plasma glucose, insulin, and triglycerides were
measured by analytical methods. Blood samples from each visit was processed and stored at
70'C for future exploratory analysis of additional hormones.
[00383]    Pharmacokinetic assessments
[003841    Blood samples were collected according to the schedules presented in Tables 1, 2, and
3, and as described above. Plasma metformin concentrations were measured by analytical
methods. Blood samples from each visit was processed and stored at -70'C for future
exploratory analysis of additional hormones.
[00385]    Clinical Laboratory Evaluations
[00386]    Samples were collected according to the schedules presented in Tables 1, 2 and 3, and
in the preceding section.
[00387]    Chemistry
[003881    Chemistry assessments included the following: urea nitrogen, creatinine, total protein,
albumin, uric acid, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, alanine arninotransferase, aspartate
                                                -177-

aminotransferase, gamma glutamyltranspeptidase, creatine phosphokinase, glucose, sodium,
potassium, chloride, bicarbonate, phosphorus, lactate, and calcium (or other routine chemistry
panels as approved by the sponsor).
 [00389]    Hematology
 [00390]    Hematology assessments included the following: red cell count, hemoglobin,
hematocrit, white cell count, platelets, differential count, mean cell volume, mean corpuscular
hemoglobin, and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (or other routine hematology
assessments as approved by the sponsor).
 [00391]    Urinalysis
 [00392]    Urinalysis assessments included the following: pH, specific gravity, glucose, blood,
ketones, and protein (or other routine urinalysis as approved by the sponsor).
 [00393]    Pregnancy Testing
 [00394]    All female subjects, regardless of childbearing status (unless subject is post
menopausal or has had a hysterectomy), provided blood or urine for pregnancy tests. Study
medication was not administered unless a negative result is obtained.
 [00395]    Vital Signs and Other Observations Related to Safety
 [00396]    Clinically significant abnormalities in vital signs and other observations related to
safety werefollowed up by the investigator and evaluated with additional tests if necessary, until
the underlying cause is diagnosed or resolution occurred.
[00397]     Vital Signs
[0100] Vital sign measurements included sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate,
and body temperature. Vital signs were measured after the subject rested for approximately 5
minutes and with the subject in a sitting position. The blood pressure measurement was repeated
after at least 30 seconds and the average of the two readings recorded.
[00398]     EXAMPLE 4.2: Results
[00399]     The study design and event timeline are shown in FIGs. 1-2. Shown in Tables 4 and 5
below are the resulting subject disposition and population (Table 4) and the demographic and
baseline characteristics of 18 subjects (Table 5).
Table 4: Subject Disposition and Population
           Parameter                                             Result
                                                -178-

          Randomized                                            18
          Completed                                             17
          Withdrawal (positive drug test)                       1
          Evaluable Population                                  16
        2 subjects excluded from evaluablepopulation; 1 withdrawn and 1 could not complete
        test meal at end of Treatment Period2
Table 5: Demographic and Baseline Characteristics (n= 18)
       Parameter                                         Result
       Gender (M/F)                                      9/9
       Mean Age (yr)     SD                              44+ 10
       Race                                              9 caucasian, 7 hispanic, 2 black
       Mean BMI (kg/m2)  SD                             29.3  2.8
[004001      FIG. 3 demonstrates that ingestion of Re-Metformin minimizes adsoprtion of
Metformin in the plasma compared to Metformin. The area under the curve (AUC) and Cmax
values for Re-Metformin and Metformin are provided in Table 6 below.
[004011    Metformin Plasma Pharmacokinetics
                                              LS Mean Ratio                      P Value
                                            ReMet /Metformin
      Abs AUC                                       0.83                            0.02
      Abs Cmax                                      0.73                           0.003
      Incremental Cmax                             0.45                           <0.001
[00402] FIG. 4A-C shows an increase in meal-enhanced gut hormones in 16 subjects after
treatment of Re-Metformin comparable to that of Metformin, although treatment with Re
                                              -179-

Metformin minimized the systemic level of metformin compared to Metformin (FIG. 3).
Additionally, FIGs. 5A-B show a reduction in meal-enhanced glucose and insulin after treatment
with Re-Metformin in 16 subjects comparable to that of Metformin. FIG. 6 shows that treatment
with Re-Metformin results in a similar PYY response as Metformin, but has a lower systemic
exposure. FIGs. 7A-B show that the Metformin PK/PD relationship was dissociable in at least
one patient.
[004031    Example 5
[004041    Evaluate efficacy of compoundsformulatedfor release in the lower intestine,
inlcuding those which may be accompaniedby poor absorption.
[00405]    Key measurements to be taken include plasma concentrations of test compounds,
influence on GLP- 1 levels, influence on PYY levels, differences in glucose levels from an acute
glucose tolerance test as well as insulin levels and differences in composition of intestinal
microbiota as measured by 16S RNA based sequencing or chip analysis.
[004061    Materials andMethods (adapted from: Dao T-M A, Waget A, Klopp P, Serino M,
Vachoux C, Pechere L, Drucker D J, Champion S, Barth6lemy S, Barra Y, Burcelin R, S6rde E.
Resveratrol Increases Glucose Induced GLP-1 Secretion in Mice: A Mechanism which
Contributes to the Glycemic Control PLoS One 2011; 6(6): e20700).
[004071    Representative test compoundformulation and dosage
[00408]    Two versions of the representative test compounds may be prepared, namely a regular
version of 200 micron particle size solid material and a coated version, designed to release
material in the lower intestine at pH 6.5, of 200 micron particle size. Each is formulated with an
appropriate carrier (including but not limited to polysorbate 20 and polyglyceryl-3-dioleate). For
some experiments the representative test compound is mixed with the diet for animal
experiments at a dose ranging from of 1 mg /Kg/day to 60 mgs/kg/day. For other experiments a
dose ranging from 1 mg/kg to 60 mgs/kg was formulated for delivery by oral gavage in either a
solution or a as a uniform suspension of fine particles.
[004091    In addition, a 500 mg GLUCOPHAGE@ XR (metformin hydrochloride) Extended
Release tablet with a target 6% enteric coating at pH 6.5 for release in the lower intestine is
evaluated; as compared to standard non-coated GLUCOPHAGE@ XR (metformin
hydrochloride) Extended-Release tablet.
[004101   Animals and treatment
[004111    General methods
                                               -180-

[00412]    Eight week-old male C57Bl/6J wild type mice (Charles River are housed under
specific pathogen-free conditions in individual ventilated cages with a 12-/12-hour light (10
p.m.)/dark (10 a.m.) cycle and with free access to water and food. Mice are maintained on a
normal chow diet (energy content: 12% fat,28% protein, and 60% carbohydrate), or a high-fat
diet (energy content: roughly 72% fat comprising corn oil and lard, 28% protein, and ,1%
carbohydrate) for five weeks. This diet induces diabetes before the onset of obesity (see, Cani
PD, Amar J, Iglesias MA, Poggi M, Knauf C, et al. (2007) "Metabolic endotoxemia initiates
obesity and insulin resistance." Diabetes 56: 1761-1772; Cani PD, Bibiloni R, Knauf C, Waget
A, Neyrinck AM, et al. (2008) "Changes in gut microbiota control metabolic endotoxemia
induced inflammation in high-fat diet-induced obesity and diabetes in mice." Diabetes 57:
1470-1481 ; Knauf C, Cani PD, Ait-Belgnaoui A, Benani A, Dray C, et al. (2008) "Brain
glucagon-like peptide 1 signaling controls the onset of high-fat diet-induced insulin resistance
and reduces energy expenditure." Endocrinology 149: 4768-4777; Cani PD, Neyrinck AM,
Fava F, Knauf C, Burcelin RG, et al. (2007) "Selective increases of bifidobacteria in gut
microflora improve high-fat-diet-induced diabetes in mice through a mechanism associated with
endotoxaemia." Diabetologia50: 2374-2383.) Food intake, body weight, and glucose tolerance
are measured by standard methods as previously described (Riant E, Waget A, Cogo H, Arnal J,
Burcelin R, et al. (2009) "Estrogens protect against high-fat diet-induced insulin resistance and
glucose intolerance in mice." Endocrinology 150: 2109-2117). All animal experimental
procedures are carried out in an AAALAC qualified facility and are further approved by the
local animal ethical committee. Statistical significance was typically achieved by having n=6 or
greater in each arm of each study, including controls.
[004131    Acute experiments
[004141    For acute experiments the representative test compounds are formulated for oral
gavage as described above and are administered twice daily over a period of 24 to 48 hrs.
[004151    Chronic experiments
[00416]    For chronic experiments the representative test compounds are formulated in chow as
described above and are administered with chow on a twice daily basis over a 28 day period.
Where analysis of intestinal microbiota are part of the protocol, faeces are collected from each
mouse in all arms of study at end of day 1, end of day 28 and conserved for later
analysis/shipping by flash freezing at -80 0C. In addition, at the end of the experiment, caeca are
dissected from each mouse, collected and conserved for later analysis/shipping by flash freezing
at -80 0C.
[004171    Oral glucose tolerance test and insulin assays
                                               -181-

 [00418]     An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT, 2 g/kg of glucose) is performed in mice
 previously fasted for 6 h after acute or chronic treatment. Blood glucose concentrations are
 monitored from the tip of the tail vein with a standard portable glucometer (Onetouch from Life
 Scan or equivalent) at - 30, 0, 30, 60, 90 and 120 min after oral glucose administration, as
 previously described. Area under the curve (AUC) (30-90) is calculated for each group of mice.
 Plasma insulin concentration is determined by ELISA (for example Mercodia, Uppsala, Sweden)
 by using 10 [l of plasma from normal chow and HFD representative test article treated mice.
 [00419]     GLP-1 measurement in plasmafrom portal vein blood samples
 [00420]     For plasma portal vein GLP- 1 quantification, mice (in fed state) are rapidly
 anesthetized by intra-peritoneal injection (0.1 ml/ 10 mg body weight) of Ketamine (Vibrac) and
 Xylazine hydrochloride 2% RompunH (Bayer) in sodium chloride (0.9%; 2:1:7 v/v/v), dissected
 and the portal vein blood samples are collected in EDTA tubes (Sarstedt, Numbrecht, Germany)
 containing a cocktail of enzyme inhibitors including a DPP-4 inhibitor (Linco Research, St
 Charles, MO, USA). Concentrations of GLP- 1 (7-36) amide are determined using an ELISA
 method (Glucagon-Like-Peptide-1 active ELISA kit, Millipore).
 [00421]    PK measurements by LC-MS or LC-MS/MS
 [00422]    An appropriately sensitive assay is established for each of the representative test
 compounds in either plasma or whole blood, using either a PE Sciex 4000, a PE Sciex 5000
 (triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometers) or a Thermo LCQ ion trap mass spectrometer.
Blood samples are collected from the tail vein of each mouse at defined intervals.on day 1 of the
studies (both chronic and acute) and day 28 of the studies (chronic only), mixed with a cocktail
of enzyme inhibitors plus EDTA then analyzed directly (LC/MS/MS).
 [00423]    RNTA extractionand real time PCR
 [00424]    Total RNA was isolated from tissues using Trizol reagent (Life Technologies) and
quantified by NanoDrop (NanoDrop technologies Inc.). Total RNA (1 rig) is reverse transcribed
using Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase (Life Technologies) and random
primers at 42'C for 1 h. The expression of target genes is determined using the Stratagene Mx
3005p. The mRNA concentration of target genes is normalized to levels of p2-actin mRNA and
the results are expressed as relative expression levels (REL). The data are quantified by the
method of 2-DDCt.
[00425]     Intestinalmicroflora characterization
[00426]     Total DNA is isolated from caecum using Trizol reagent (Life Technologies) and is
amplified by PCR, targeting the V3 region of the 16S rRNA gene using the universal bacterial
                                                -182-

primers HDAl-GC and HDA2 (Table 1). Each reaction mixture (25 pl) contains 4 pl of DNA
diluted to 50 ng/g1, deoxynucleoside triphosphate (Sigma-Aldrich) at a concentration of 200
mM, 0.3 pM of each primer, and 0.07 pl of Taq polymerase (Sigma-Aldrich). Th-e following
amplification program is used: 94'C for 5 min, 30 cycles consisting of 94'C for 30 s, 55*C for
45 s, and 72*C for 60 s, and 30 min at 72'C. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) is
then performed by using DGGE 2401 systems (CBS & Scientific Co.) and 8%polyacrylamide
gels with a 35-55% gradient of urea (99.0-100.5% - Sigma-Aldrich) and formamide (99+%
Sigma-Aldrich), which increases in the direction of electrophoresis. Electrophoretic runs are in a
Tris-acetate-EDTA buffer (40 mmol/1 Tris, 20 mmol/l acetic acid, and 1 mmol/l EDTA) at 60 V
and 60*C for 18 h. Gels were stained with SYBR Safe 16 (Life Technologies) for 30 min, rinsed
with deionized water, then scanned and analyzed by using Typhoon 9400 Variable Mode Imager
(Amersham Biosciences). Hierarchical clustering is performed by using Permutmatrix 1.9.3.0
(Caraux G, Pinloche S (2005) "PermutMatrix: a graphical environment to arrange gene
expression profiles in optimal linear order." Bioinformatics 21: 1280-1281).
 [00427]     Weight loss
 [00428]    Treated and untreated animals will be weighed periodically to measure weight gain or
loss of the treated animals compared to the control group.
 [00429]    StatisticalAnalysis
 [00430]    Results are expressed as means  SEM. Statistical analyses is performed using
GraphPad Prism version 5.0 for windows (GraphPad Software, San Diego, CA;
www.graphpad.com). The level of significance is set at p<0.05.
[00431]     Exemplary test compounds representive of Formulas I, IA, H, III and IV are tested in
the above assays as follows. For example:
Biguanides: Formula (I)
                                                                              /-0
                                                                            0
        NH   NH        NH   NH            NH  NH                 NH  NH               NH  NH
    H2N   N    NH2   N   NNH     2      N   N    NH2          N    N    NH 2        N   N   NH2
          H              H              H   H                 H    H                H   H
          OH
    HO               NH   NH              NH  NH       0        NH   NH        C    NH  NH
                   N   N    NH 2   0    N   N    NH2         NNNH         2       N   N   N
                   H   H                H   H                H    H               H   H   H
Triazoles: Formula (IA)
                                               -183  -

                                                                                   O-0
                                                                                 0
         N-N                N-N                                       N-N                      N-N
    H2N     N     NH2   N     N   NH2           N   N     NH2     N     N     H2N                N    NH 2
        HNH              I    H                 H   H             H     H
            OH
     HO                   N-N         flI         N-N          0O    N-N               N'    N-N
        ON                  N    NH2     0      N    N    NH2     N ' 1N)NH2        C      N        N
                       H    H                   H    H            H    H                   H   H    H
Triazines: Formula (II)
         N'     N           N   N                 N    N              NkN        O             N    N
    H2 N    N     NH2    N   NNH     2          N    N    NH2      N    N    NH2             N   N    NH2
                                                H                  H                         H
            OH.                                     'NN'NN~
     HO      N'           N-N'              N                  0     N    N               N'      N
                       O    N    NH2     0      N         NH2     N         NH2     CI       N      N
                       H                        H                 H                        H        H
Dihydrotriazines: Formula (III)
         NN     N           N   N                                     NN         OO            N    N
    H2N     N     NH 2   N    N   NH   2        N   N     NH2      N    N    NH2             N   N    NH2
            H             I   H                 H   H              H    H                    H   H
     H   O                N     NH 2              N       NH 2    N    N    NH 2           N     N N
                       H    H                   H    H            H    H                   H   H    H
7-ring cyclic biguanides: Formula (IV)
                                NNNH       N~NN           NH00           A                        NN
            XNNH 2       N    N   NH2           N   N     NH2      N    N   NH2              N        NH2
    H2N     H                                   H                  H                         H
     HO     OH                N        /NN             N                            Cl           N
         01            N N    tNH2                   N    NH2      /
                                                                  N01- N-YNH2              NNH2
                       H                        H                 H                        H
                                                        - 184-

[004321     Example 5
[00433]     A 12-WEEK, RANDOMIZED, DOUBLE-BLIND, PLACEBO-CONTROLLED,
PARALLEL-GROUP, MULTICENTER STUDY TO DETERMINE THE SAFETY AND
EFFICACY OF TWICE DAILY ADMINISTRATION OF EFB0027 IN SUBJECTS WITH TYPE 2
DIABETES MELLITUS
[00434]     The experiments described in Example 5 will (1) compare the effect on glycemic
control, as assessed by HbAlc, of EFB0027 administered two times a day (BID) before the
morning and evening meals to placebo for 12 weeks in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus,
(2) assess the safety and tolerability of the range of doses of EFB0027 administered BID for 12
weeks in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus, (3) assess dose-dependence of effect on HbAlc
of EFB0027 administered BID for 12 weeks in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus, and (4)
compare EFB0027, EFB0026, a combination of EFB0026 and EFB0027, and placebo
administered BID for 12 weeks in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus on the following:
-        Metformin pharmacokinetics (PK)
-        Change from baseline in HbAlc over time
-        Proportion of subjects who achieve HbA 1c of <7% at 12 weeks
-        Body weight
-        Change from baseline in fasting plasma glucose, insulin, triglycerides, peptide YY
(PYY), and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) over time
[00435]     Example 5.1: Materials and Methods
[00436]     Example 5.1.1: Study design:
[00437]     There will be 8 study visits; one screening visit (Visit 1) followed by 2 lead-in
stabilization period visits (Visits 2 and 3) and 5 randomized treatment period visits (Visits 4
through 8).
[004381     Subjects will administer EFB0026 500 mg BID (1000 mg/day) for 2 weeks followed
by 1000 mg BID (2000 mg/day) for 4 weeks during the single-blind, 6-week lead-in stabilization
period .
[00439]     At Visit 4, each of approximately 250 subjects will be randomized to one of 5
treatment groups in the proportion of 1:1:1:1:1. Randomization is to be stratified by Visit 3
(Week -1) HbAlc.
                                           Treatment Groups
                                                 -185-

        Treatment Group                 N                                 Treatment*
                 A                     50                                 Placebo BID
                 B                     50                            EFB0026 500 mg BID
                 C                     50                            EFB0027 500 mg BID
                 D                     50                           EFB0026 1000 mg BID
                 E                     50                           EFB0027 1000 mg BID
                 F                     50               EFB0026 500 mg plus EFB0027 1000 mg BID
 *EFB0026 = metformin HCI tablets (nonenteric-coated); EFB0027 = metformin HCl tablets with a pH 6.5 enteric
 coating (enteric-coated)
 Treatment groups B and C will include 2 placebo tablets per dose and treatment groups D and E will include 1
 placebo tablet per dose to preserve the blind.
 [00440]      At lead-in stabilization period and randomized treatment period visits (Visits 2, 3, 4,
 5, 6, 7 and 8):
          -    Subjects will arrive at the study clinic after having fasted overnight for at least 10
 hours
          -    Subjects will be instructed not to take their morning dose of investigational product
 (IP) on the days of study visits until after the fasting blood draws are completed. The morning
 dose will be administered at the study site on the days of study visits (Visits 2 through 7 only)
          -   A lipid panel will be collected at Screening, Day 1 and Week 12 (Visits 1, 3 and 7)
          -   Fasting blood samples (one 6-mL sample and one 2-mL sample) will be collected for
measurement of plasma metformin, glucose, insulin, GLP-1 and PYY at all study visits.
Triglycerides will also be assessed at visits where a full lipid panel is not scheduled (Visits 2, 3,
5, 6 and 7)
          -   HbAc will be measured at Screening, Week -6, Week - 1, Day 1, and Weeks 4, 8,
and 12 (Visits 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8)
[004411      If a subject's underlying diabetes is inadequately controlled on randomized treatment
and if the subject is experiencing hyperglycemia that is a significant worsening from the
baseline condition (as indicated by an HbAlc value >10% or increase by more than 1.0% from
the Visit 3 value), the subject will be withdrawn from the study and administered appropriate
alternate therapy.
[004421      Example 5.1.2: Visit structure
[00443]      The study will consist of 8 study visits with one screening visit (Visit 1), 2 lead-in
stabilization period visits (Visits 2 and 3) and 5 randomized treatment period visits (Visits 4, 5,
6, 7 and 8). Visit 1 procedures may be conducted over >1 day. The interval separating the
                                                     -186-

beginning of Visit 1 procedures and Visit 2 will be 528 days. Visits 2 and 3 (Weeks -6 and -1)
will be scheduled at - 6 weeks 3 days and -1 week 3 days relative to Visit 4 (Day 1). Visits
5, 6, 7 and 8 will be scheduled at 2, 4, 8 and 12 weeks 3 days relative to Visit 4 (Day 1).
Subjects may be discharged from the clinic after each visit's procedures are completed. Subjects
will have completed the study after finishing Visit 8 procedures.
[00444]    Example 5.1.3: Study duration
[0101] Total study duration will be between 132 to 163 days depending on the number of
intervening days between study visits.
[004451    Example 5.1.3: Study population
[004461    Each subject of the study will meet the following criteria:
            1. Is 18 to 65 years old at Screening (Visit 1).
            2. Is diagnosed with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and is treated with diet and exercise
               alone, metformin alone, DPP-4 inhibitor alone, or a combination regimen of
               metformin with a DPP-4 inhibitor (stable regimen for a minimum of 2 months at
               Visit 1).
            3. Has an HbA Ic 6.5 to 9.0% (inclusive) at Visit 1 and Visit 3.
            4. Has serum creatinine below the upper limit of normal at Visit 1 and an estimated
               creatinine clearance above 80 using the Crockroft and Gault equation (CrCl=
               [(140 - age) x body weight in kg] / (serum creatinine x 72) x (0.85 for females).
            5. Has a BMI of 25.0 kg/m 2 to 45.0 kg/m 2, inclusive, at Visit 1.
            6. Has a stable body weight, i.e., not varying by >10% for at least 6 months prior to
               Visit 1 as documented by the investigator.
            7. Is male, or is female and meets all of the following criteria:
               a. Not breastfeeding
               b. Negative pregnancy test result (human chorionic gonadotropin, beta subunit)
                    at Visit 1 (Screening)
               c. Surgically sterile, postmenopausal, or if of childbearing potential, must
                    practice and be willing to continue to practice appropriate birth control during
                    the entire duration of the study
            8. Has a physical examination with no clinically significant abnormalities as judged
               by the investigator.
                                                -187-

         9. Has a fasting glucose concentration of <240 mg/dL at Visit 1.
         10. Either is not treated with or has been on a stable treatment regimen with any of
             the following medications for a minimum of 3 months prior to Visit 1
             (Screening):
             a. Hormone replacement therapy (female subjects)
             b. Oral contraceptives (female subjects)
             c. Antihypertensive agents
             d. Lipid-lowering agents
             e. Thyroid replacement therapy
             f. Antidepressant agents
         11. Is willing and able to follow study procedures.
         12. Is able to read, understand, and sign the Informed Consent Form (ICF) and an
             Authorization to Use and Disclose Protected Health Information form (consistent
             with Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 [HIPAA]
             legislation, answer the study questions, communicate with the investigator, and
             understand and comply with protocol requirements.
[00447] Subjects who meet any of the following criteria will be excluded:
         1. Has a clinically significant medical condition that could potentially affect study
             participation and/or personal well-being, as judged by the investigator, including
             but not limited to the following conditions:
             a. Hepatic disease
             b. Renal disease
             c. Gastrointestinal disease
             d. Endocrine disorder except diabetes
             e. Cardiovascular disease
             f. Seizure disorder
             g. Organ transplantation
             h. Chronic infection (e.g., tuberculosis, human immunodeficiency virus,
                 hepatitis B virus, or hepatitis C virus)
        2. Has any chronic disease requiring medication that has been adjusted in the past
             90 days (subjects may take acute intermittent over-the-counter medications such
             as Tylenol, if needed).
                                             -188-

            3. Has any drug treatment that affects gastric pH (prescription or over-the-counter),
                 including any antacids or medications such as Rolaids or Pepcid within 2 days of
                 Visit 1 (Screening).
            4. Has renal disease or renal dysfunction (e.g., as suggested by serum creatinine
                 levels >1.5 mg/dL [males], >1.4 mg/dL [females] or abnormal creatinine
                 clearance).
            5. Has known hypersensitivity or allergies to metformin hydrochloride or any
                 component of study treatment.
            6. Has clinical laboratory test (clinical chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis)
                 abnormalities other than those expected in subjects with diabetes and judged by
                 the investigator to be clinically significant at Visit I (Screening).
            7. Has physical, psychological, or historical finding that, in the investigator's
                 opinion, would make the subject unsuitable for the study.
            8. Currently abuses drugs or alcohol or has a history of abuse that in the
                 investigator's opinion would cause the individual to be noncompliant with study
                 procedures.
           9. Has donated blood within 2 months of Visit 1 (Screening) or is planning to
                 donate blood during the study.
            10. Has used insulin within 3 months of Visit 1 (Screening).
            11. Has received GLP-1 receptor agonists and/or thiazolidinedione treatment within 6
                 months of Visit 1 (Screening).
           12. Has received Furosemide, Nifedipine, thiazides or other diuretics, corticosteroids,
                 cationic drugs, or thyroid products within 6 months of Visit 1 (Screening).
           13. Has had a major surgery or a blood transfusion within 6 months of Visit 1
                 (Screening).
           14. Has received any investigational drug within one month (or five half-lives of the
                investigational drug, whichever is greater) of Visit 1 (Screening).
           15. Is an immediate family member (spouse, parent, child, or sibling; biological or
                legally adopted) of personnel directly affiliated with the study at the clinical
                study site, or is directly affiliated with the study at the clinical study site.
           16. Is employed by Elcelyx Therapeutics, Inc (Elcelyx) (that is an employee,
                temporary contract worker, or designee responsible for the conduct of the study).
[004481   Once screened and qualified for entry, subject will be instructed as follows:
       Fast for at least 10 hours (no food or beverage except water) prior to each visit
                                                   -189-

        Take no new prescription medications or over-the--counter preparations without prior
approval of the investigator (who may contact the sponsor for consultation).
        Take no anti-diabetic medications during the study other than the investigational product.
Discontinue use of any DPP-4 inhibitors or prescribed metformin prior to enrollment (Visit 2)
        Take no caffeine before (at least 10 hours) or during study visits
         On the days of study visits do not take the dose of investigational product at home before
the visit
         Bring all previously dispensed empty, partially used or unused containers of
investigational product to each visit
        Do not begin a diet or weight loss program during the study
        Avoid strenuous exercise and alcohol 24 hours prior to each scheduled visit.
        Refrain from smoking during study visits (i.e., no smoking until all visit procedures are
completed)
[00449]     Example 5.1.4: Investigational products
[0102] -    Placebo
[0103] -    EFB0026: 500 mg metformin HCl tablets (nonenteric-coated)
[0104] -    EFB0027: 500 mg metformin HCl tablets with a pH 6.5 enteric coating (enteric
coated)
                                               -190-

 [00450]    Example 5.1.5: Study Methods
 [00451]    EFB0026 500 mg BID (1000 mg/day) will be administered for 2 weeks followed by
 1000 mg BID (2000 mg/day) for 4 weeks during the lead-in stabilization period. Randomized
treatment will be administered BID over 12 weeks. HbAl c, metformin PK, fasting glucose,
 insulin, GLP-1, PYY, lipids, and body weight will be collected at scheduled time points.
Efficacy assessments will be of HbAlc and body weight, pharmacokinetic assessments will be
of plasma metformin, and pharmacodynamic assessments will be of fasting glucose, insulin,
GLP-1, PYY and lipids. Safety will be assessed through the monitoring of adverse events, by
electrocardiogram, and clinical chemistry.
 [00452]    Example 5.1.6: Statistical considerations
 [00453]    Analysis populations will be selected and described in the Statistical Analysis Plan
 [00454]    Study endpoints include HbA1 c, metformin PK, fasting glucose, insulin, GLP-1, PYY,
lipids, and body weight
 [00455]    Demographic and baseline characteristics will be summarized descriptively
 [00456]    While certain embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described
herein, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way
of example only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those
skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various
alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing
the invention. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that
methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered
thereby.
                                                 - 191-

                                                      CLAIMS
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1.      A composition comprising a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound of structural
 Formula I,
                                                R6 N         N" R7
                                           R2              ~       R5
                                              R2N       N       N'R
                                                  I      I      I
                                                 R1     R3      R4
                                                                        (I)
 wherein:
         R 1, R 2, R 3, R4 , R 5, R 6, and R 7 are independently selected from:
         H, OH,
         O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
         optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
 alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
         optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylary; optionally substituted
 heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
         or R 6 and R 7 may join to form a bond, together forming a ring including the nitrogen
 atoms to which they are attached;
         or R 1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
        imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl,
        including the nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
wherein the composition is adapted to reduce the average bioavailability of the compound,
release a therapeutically effective amount of the compound to one or more regions of the
intestine of a subject, or a combination thereof
2.      A composition according to claim 1, wherein
        R 2, R 3, R4 , R 5, R6 and R 7 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or
isopropyl; and
        R1 is selected from:
        H,
        C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NiH2, NH
alkyl,
                                                      - 192 -

        C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
 oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
 alkyl,
        C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
 oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
 alkyl,
        C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
        C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl,
        C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
        phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
        alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
        pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl,
pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
3.      A composition according to claim 1, wherein the compound of Formula I is selected
from the following structures:
                                               - 193 -

      NH    NH           NH   NH             NH   NH               NH     NH            N    NH        NH   NH
H 2N    N      NH 2 N      N)NH2      H2N      N    NH2        N      N      NH2     N    N    NH2   N   N    NH 2
        H           H      H                    I               I     H              H    H          H    I
       NH    N           NH   NH           N     NH             NH    N              N    NH           N    N
    N     N    NH2  N      N    NH2    N N         NH 2    N       N      NH2    N     NkNH2         N-N      NH2
    H     H         |I                  I     H             |      H             HI
      NH    N             NH   NH            N    NH              NH    NH             N    NH         N    N
   N NN        NH 2  N      NN4           N     N    NH 2     NA. N         N      N A. N     N     NA N      N
   H                  I|    HI            II                  I     I       H       HI        H     H    H    H
      NH    NH           N    NH          N     N          NN         N              N    NH          N    NH
   NN N        N    N      N         N Nk    NA. N         N       N.     N      NA NA. N          NA NA. N
   |     |          |      H    I      H I        H        |       H      H      |          H      |I
                                N   N             N     N                 N    N
                             N-N-k-           -NNA.N.N                NNA.NA.NtN
                                      H              H                  I
                                                         -194-

      NH     NH                     NH     NH                       NH    NH                       NH    NH
   NAN ANH2                     N      N      NH2                N     N    NH2                 N     N     NH2
   H     H                      H      H                         H     H                        H     H
      NH     NH                     NH     NH                       NH    NH                       NH    NH
   N kN ANH2                    N      N      NH2                N     N     NH 2               NN    NA    NH2
          H                     I      H                         |     H                              H
      NH     NH                     NH     NH                       NH    NH                       NH    NH
   N     N      NH2             N             NH2                N     N     NH2              N       N'    NH2
   H     I                      H      I                         H    I                         H    I
       N      NH                  "N        NH                       N     NH                       N     NH
IN    AN ANH2                    NA      NANH2                    N     N     NH 2           NI  N N
                                                                                                NJN           NH2
    H      H                     H       H                        H     H                       H      H
        NH     NH                     NH     NH                      NH    NH                       NH     NH
 -N -kN -kN                      NAlN          NlW                 NAlN AlN                      NAlN AlN
     H      H    H               H        H    H                   H    H     H                  H      H     H
      NH     NH             NH     NH                 N      NH                 NH     NH           NH    NH
   N     N      NH2       N    N       NH2          N     N     NH2           N     N     N        N    N     N
         H                                                H                         H     H            H        I
      NH     NH              NH     NH                N      NH                 NH     NH             NH    NH
    N     N     NH2       N     N      NH 2         N     N     NH 2          H     NNN            N     N        N
         H                    1                           H                         H     H              H     I
        SNH NH                      NH                  N     NH                   NH    NH            NH    NH
  HN       N     NH 2    HN     N       NH2        HN      N     NH2        HN       N     N     HN       N       N
           H            6                                  H                         H     H              H
        NH     NH             NH      NH                 N     NH                  NH    NH             NH    NH
   HN '     N'    NH2     HN     N'      NH2        HN '    N-kNH2            HN '    N'    N      HN -kN AlN
            H         &           ]           C             H                         H     H              H|
       H NH NH                      NH                  N     NH                  NH    NH             NH    NH
  HN       N     NH 2    HN     N      NH 2        HN      N     NH2        HN       N     N     HN       N       N
                                                                                                 6        H         |
                                                                            6        H     H
                                                  6        H
                        6           j
 6         H
       SNH NH                       NH                  N    NH                   NH    NH             NH    NH
  HN       N     NH2     HN     N      NH2         HN      N    NH2         HN       N     N     HN       N       N
           H                                2              H                         H     H              H         |
                                                         -195-

                             NH     NH               NH  NH              NH   NH
                          N     N2                  NH     H          N     N) NH2
         HNH 2                                    HH                          H
                             NH NHH
                             NH NH                                       NH   NHH
                                                     NHN NH2           NHNN    NH
                                                                               NH2
   NH    NH2               HNH NH2
                           NHN
           H
              IN     N NH2                     H  I     NNNH 2    HH NNNH         2
      H     2
                                                                        NH   NH
                            NH    NH
  NHN                              ,N    N,         NH  NHkNJ          l
   'IN~)NN        N        NH2                   N'   N- -NH2
   HI'                                                               H
                                                                         NH NH        HNH
               NH NH             HNH
H     H   H     '~.H                                           H H N
                            NHH N                        NN                  NH
  NH   NH                   N          N            NH  NH                       N NH
H    H                                      -H             H
                                          -196-

0              0             0            10              0            0            1    0               0                 0
    HN yNH         ,N   NNH      HN yN        HN yNH         HN yNH         ,N.y    N     'IN yNH           'IN yNH            HNyNH
      HN yNH          HN   yNH      HN yNH          ,NyNH       HN    yNH      HN yNH         ,N     yNH          HN yNH           HN yNH
            NH,           NH,            NH,            N H,       HNN~             NH,              NH,              HNN~           'N,
                                  /-0                 0 / 0
                                                                                 0          0              0                0
         H       NHN          NH     HN             HN           HN           NN                 - N
                                         \r-H jNH -N \j.-N H              NH        >N                \r-NH        -N         N H HN         NH
            HN .- N H HN .- N H HN T- N H - N .- N H HN .- N H HN T-N                          H      -N \j,N H HN             N H HN        -NH
            HN            HN             HN           HN              H N           HN               HN                  HN                N
                                     0          /- 0          /'0 0            '0 0            -     0         /'0               0/
   0o
          \rN NH    --     N NH          N           \r   N NH     -TN NH              N            \ N NH         NNH                   \rHN NH
        HN~ NH         HN    N H HN         NH     -. N     N H HN       N H HN         NH        -. N    -N H HN           N H         HN    N H
         HN            HN            HN              HN             HN           HN                 HN                HN
      S0         !       0 o              0o          0             0                             0         _, 0    ,    0     ~-0
    Y         IYlIl-                   I) 1>1>                         I1        I          I)             I            )           I> 0 00 0
  HN        0    NH'N          HN 'N"        HN    yN               N     '         N"   'N     yN              Ny                  N yN
    HN      NH       N     NH    HN       NH 'IH         N y    NH    H        N       H'N y           N        N       NH      HN      NH
          NH,            NH,            NH 2          NH 2       HNII             NH 2              NH 2           HNI-             1 NI
        HN~N            N~           HN~           HN~N              HN~N                         N~                N NHN>N
         HN .- N HHN \.-N H HN               NH     - N NH        HN     NH      HN     NH      .N        NH        HN       NH      HN     NH
            HN          H2N           H2N            H2N             HN\          H2N               HN                 HN
            -            0     -       0                                          0
                             ~0                                                                                        0         0                0
  HN~N            .N~           HN4           HN~N            HNN             ~N           - .N~            .N~N                 HN~N
    HN     -N H HN       -N H HN        -N H      -N -N H HN         -N H H N NH               -N      N H HN            N H        HN      NH
       HN           H2N           H2N           H2N             HN \          H2N             H2N                 HN
                                                               -197-

                  HO            HO            HO             HO            HO              HO               HO               HO
    HO
HO           HO             HO           HO              HO           HO               HO               HO              HO
              N      I              I         I                N                   I         N                   I            N
                    N      NH    HN      N      HN      NH    HN      NH      N       N       N       NH       N       NH     HN      NH
     HN     NH
                     HN       NH    HN      NH       N     NH    HN     NH     HN       NH         N     NH      HN       NH    HN        NH
        HN     NH
            NH2            NH2           NH2            NH2         HNN               NH2             NH 2            HNN             N
        OH           OH            OH              OH            OH             OH             OH                OH             OH
 HO           HO             HO            HO             HO            HO              HO               HO              HO
          HN     NH       NNH         HN     N      HN NNH         HN      NH        NN          ...       NH     ..-       NH    HNNH
            HN     NH     HN     NH    HN       NH .N         NH     HN      NH      HN     NH       -N   N-NH        HN_ NH        HN       NH
            H2N           H2N           H2N             H2N           HN              H2N              H2N              HN           .N
                                                            HO     OH      H       OH      HOHO            HO       OH        H       OH
   H      OH    H      OH     HO      OH    H         OH
     HO         HO               H              H              H           HO              HO              HO                   H
        HN     NH     N     NH     HN              HN     NH     HN     NH            N         .N>_NH         .... NNH           HN        NH
         HN     NH    HN      NH     HN     NH       .N    _NH     HN      NH      HN     NH      .. N      NH      HN     NH        HN      NH
          H2N          H2N            H2N             H2N           HN             H2N               H2N              HN              ..- N
            OH            OH            OH             OH            OH              OH               OH               OH            OH
           OHN            OH            OH             OH            OH              OH                H                 H           OH
    HN     NH      N      NH    HN      N,   HN        NH    HN     NH    'NH                               IN        NH    HN       NH
       HN     NH    HN      NH     HN      NH              H    HN     NH     HN       NH      N        NH     HN        NH    HN        NH
           NH2            NH2           NH2            NH2         HNs              NH2              NH2            HNI              N
        OH           OH            OH              OH            OH             OH             OH                OH             OH
            OH            OH            OH             OH            OH              OH               OH               OH            OH
         HN     NH . N        NH    HN             H       NH    HN      NH    '..    N        -- N      NH      -N      -NH    HN        NH
           HN    NH     HN     NH     HN     NH     -- N rNH       HN      NH      HN     NH      .. N    -NH       HN-     NH    HN       NH
           H2N           H2 N          H2N            H2N            HN             H2N              H2N               HN          .- N
            OH            OH            OH              OH            OH              OH               0H              OH                OH
           OH           OH             OH              OH           OH               OH               OH              OH               OH
    HNr NH .... N      -NH     HN             HN NNH          HN rNH           N-N          -N       NH       N         H      HN      NH
     HN      NH    HN      NH    HN      NH     '~N      NH    HN      NH     HN       NH    '~N        NH    HN        NH       HN       NH
       H2N         H2 N           H2N             H2 N           HN            H2N             H2N               HN               -N
                                                          -198-

HN           HN           HN          HN          HN            HN           HN            HN           HN
                 N    NH    HN     N    HN     NH    HN     NH    ANH                                     HN      NH
  HN    NH
    HN      NH    HN     NH    HN     NH    N    NH     HN     NH    HN     NH      N     NH    HN     NH    HN      NH
        NH2           NH2          NH2         NH2        HNK            NH2           NH2         HNI          'N,
 HN    NH       N    NH     HN    N     HN    NH    HN      NH     NH                         N     NH    HN      NH
    HN     NH     HN    NH    HN     NH    N     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH       N    NH    HN      NH    HN      NH
       NH2           NH2          NH2         NH2         HNs            NH2          NH2         HNs             N,
S            S             S           S           S            S             S             S            S
 HN    NH       y    NH    HN     N     HN    NH    HN     NH      N    ,N      N     N             NH    HN     NH
    HN    NH     HN     NH    HN     NH    N     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH      N     NH    HN      NH   HN       NH
       NH2           NH2          NH2         NH2         HNs           NH2           NH2         HNs            N
  H            H            H           H            H             H            H             H            H
     N             N   H2            N               N             N            N             NN
   HNy NH'N y N              NyN        H       HH           H'IN y      N    'IN y     HZN           H      y N
    HN     NH     HN    NH     HN    NH    N     NH    HN      NH   HN     NH       N     NH    HN     NH    HN      NH
 HN    NH       N      HHN        N     HN    NH HN         NH     N     N       N     NH     N     NH HN         NH
        NH2           NH2         NH2         NH2         HNs            NH2           NH2         HNs            N
 HN    NH       N    NH    HN     N    HN     NH    HN     NH      N    ,N      N     NH      N     NH    HN     NH
    HN    NH     HN     NH    HN     NH    N    NH     HN     NH    HN     NH      N     NH    HN      NH   HN       NH
       NH2           NH2          NH2         NH2        HNs            NH2           NH2         HNI          ' N,
 HNyNH         N     NHHN         N    HN    NH     HN     NH     N           INN                  NHHN          NH
   HN yNH        HN yNH      HN yNH 'N yNH            HN yNH       HN yNH          NyNH        HN yNH       HN yNH
       NH 2          NH2          NH2        NH2         HNI            NH2           NH2        HN           'N,*
                                                   -199-

HN           HN_            HN           HN            HN          HN_           HN            HN            HN_
  HN     NH       NyNH        HN      N    HN      NH    HN     NH                   N     NH      N     NH    HN      NH
     HN     NH     HN      NH     HN     NH     N     NH   HN      NH    HN     NH      N     NH     HN     NH    HN       NH
         NH2           NH2            NH2          NH2        HNN            NH2           NH2         HN,          'N
  HN yNH         NyNH         HN     N     HN     NH    HN     NH      N    N        N    NH       N    NH    HN       NH
    HN     NH      HN     NH     HN     NH      N    NH    HN     NH    HN     y N             H    HN    NH     HN       NH
         NH2           NH2           NH2          NH2         HNs           NH2           NH2          HNs             N,
 S            S              S        I S              S            S-            S             S -          S
 HN yNH          NyNH        HN      N     HN     NH    HN     NH      N    N       N     NH       N    NH    HN      NH
    HN     NH     HN      NH    HN      NH     N     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH      N     NH     HN    NH     HN       NH
        NH2           NH2            NH2          NH2        HN,            NH2           NH2         HNN             N,
  H             H             H             H            H            H             H             H            H
  N             N             N            NN 1       NHNH2                 NN         N             N         N
  HN yNH         N    NH      HN      NH   HN     NH           NH    HN      NH    HN     NH       N    NH    HN       NH
     HN    NH      HN     NH      HN    NH    HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     HN     NH     HN     NH    HN       NH
         NH2           NH2           N,           NH2          NH2          N,            NH2           NH2          IN,
        0      0              0\                                      0-,,         0             0
 HN     NH      N     NH     HN      NHyHN        NH     N    NHHN          NH    HN     NH       N     NHHN          NH
    HN     NH     HN      NH    HN      NH   HN     NH    HN     NH    HN      NH    HN      NH    HN     NH     HN       NH
        NH2           NH2            N,           NH2          NH2         N             NH2            NH2           N
                                \          S\ s                      S             S             s            S
 HN yNH       ,N yNH         HN yNH      HN y      HNy N        H     NyNH        HN yNH          NyNH       HN yNH
   HN yNH         HNyNH        HN yNH        HN yNH       HN yNH       HN yNH        HN yNH        HN yNH       HN yNH
        NH,           NH,          IN,           NH,          NH2,         N             NH,           NH2        'I,
                                                             -200-

                     NH    HN     N,    HN    NH    HN     NH      N    N       N    NH    N    NH    HN     NH
HN     NH      N
          NH    HN      NH              HN     NH                       N        N   NH     N   NH    HN     NH
   HN
       NH2           NH2          NH2         NH2         HNIs          NH2          NH2      HN             N,
HNyNH          NyNH        HNy N        HN yNH       HN yNH         Ny        N      NH    N     NH    HN     NH
   HN      NH    HN     NH    HN      NH    HN NH       HN     y N      H NH       N    NH   HN     NH   HN      NH
     O            O\            02          O\         P\           P\   \       PO\           O\
        NH2          NH2           NH2         NH2        HNN           NH2          NH2       HN ,          NN
 HN     NH    ,N     NH     HN     N,    HN    NH    HN      NH     N    N       N    NH    N    NH    HN     NH
   HN      NH    HN      NH    HN     NH    HNNH        HN      y N           H    N    NH   HN     NH    HN     NH
        NH2          NH2           NH2         NH2         HNN           NH2          NH2       HN            N,
        H             H            H            H            H           H            H          H             H
HN      NH     N     NH    HN      N,   HN     NH    HN      NH     N   N       N    NH    N     NH    HN    NH
   HN     NH     HN     NH    HN      NH    N     NH   HN      NH    HN    NH      N    NH   HN     NH   HN      NH
         /N
      HNNH            /        HN NHN r1/
                              r1/           N       HN
                                                    HHNH     /           /H        N  /H       H
                                                                                                  /   H
                                                                                                         p/H      H
           2
                 HN  NHN 2            2        NH 2       HNN           NH2          NH2       HNN         'N,
        N             N            N           N             N           N            N          N             N
        NH        N     H,   ~    NH           N,            N   N-~N      H,     N    H,      N    I       N,
HN      NH     N     NH     HN     N,    HN    NH    HN      NH     N   N       N    NH     N    NH    HN     NH
   HN      NH    HN     NH    HN      NH    N     NH    HN     NH    HN    NH      N    NH   HN     NH   HN      NH
        NH2          NH2           NH2         NH2        HNN           NH2          NH2       HNI           NN
                                                            - 201 -

               N     NH   HN      N     HN     NH   HN      NH     N     N       N    NH     N     NH    HN       NH
 HN     NH
    HN     NH   HN     NH     HN     NH     N    NH    HN      NH   HN     NH      N     NH   HN      NH    HN       NH
        NH2          NH2          NH2          NH2        HNI            NH2          NH2        HN             ,N
HN      NH    N     NH    HN     N     HN     N N
                                              y         H NH      N     N       N     NH     N      H    HN      NH
   HN      NH   HN     NH    HN      NH    N     NH   HN      NH   HN      NH      N    NH    HN      NH    HN      NH
        NH2         NH2          NH2          NH2        HN,            NH2           NH2        HNI           'N"
 HN     NH     N    NH    HN     N"     HN    NH    HN     NH     N     N       N     NH     N    NH     HN      NH
    HN     NH   HN     NH    HN      NH     N    NH    HN     NH    HN     NH      N     NH   HN      NH    HN       NH
        NH2         NH2          NH2          NH2        HNN            NH2           NH2        HN              N
         H           H             H           H            H            H
                     N             N           N            N            N
                                                                                                N     NH    HN      NH
                                                        N      NH    N     NNH
 HNHN NH          NH                                                           HN     NH     N    NH HN           NH
          NH   N    NH HN         NH HN       NH     N      NH HN       NH
    HNyNH       HN yNH       HN yNH       HN yNH       HN yNH       HN yNH        HN yNH      HN yNH        HN yNH
        NH2         NH2        'N,            NH2          NH2          N             NH2         NH2             N
                                 0            0             0           0O
        0           0
       1/          1/       ;1 /         r1/             1/ -            /-x                         0             0
HN      NH    N     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     N       H   HN     NH    HN      NH    N       H    HN      NH
   HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH   HN      NH   HN      NH    HN     NH    HN      NH   HN       NH
        NH2         NH2          N            NH2          NH2         N,            NH2          NH2            N
                          S     SS                        S            SS                           S              S
                                                        1/ -            / -       CS                S              S
     1/           1/                    P/ /
HN     NH     N    NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     N       H HN       NH     HN     NH     N      H    HN      NH
  HN      NH   HN     NH    HN      NH   HN     NH   HN      NH   HN      NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     HN      NH
       NH2         NH2          N            NH2          NH2          N,            NH2         NH2            N
                                                           - 202 -

      HN/            HN/            HN/          HN/           HN/          HN/             HN/           HN/            HN/
                             NH     HN      N,   HN     NH     HN     NH      N          N N       NH      N       NH    HN      NH
      HN      NH      N
                        HN      NH     HN     NH     N      NH    HN     NH    HN      NH       N     NH     HN       NH    HN      NH
         HN      NH
              NH 2           NH 2           NH2         NH 2         HNs            NH2            NH2          HNN             N.
    0/             O/             O/            0/           O/           0/              0/            0/             0/
   HN     y N            HNHN y NN            HN     N,N           N          NN        ,N      NH      N       H HN         NH
      HN      NH    HN      NH     HN      NH     HNNH         HN     y NHN        NH        N     NH    HN       NH     HN      NH
          NH2            NH 2           NH 2         NH 2         HNs           NH 2            NH 2         HN, ,           N.
 S/            S/             S/            S/            S/           S/             S              S              S
HN     NH      N      NH     HN      N,   HN      NH    HN      NH ,         N        N      NH      N       H    HN      NH
  HN      NH     HN      NH    HN       NH                 HN      NH   HN      NH        N    NH     HN      NH     HN      NH
       NH 2          NH 2            NH2          NH2         HN,            NH2             NH 2        HN,              N
       S              S              S            S             S            S               S             S              S
     HN      NH      N       H     HN     N     HNN    NHN        N NH       N
                                                                             N    N         N     NH      N     NH      HN      NH
       HN      NH     HN      NH     HN      NH     N     NH    HN      NH    HN      NH       N     NH    HN       NH    HN      NH
            NH2            NH2            NH2          NH 2         HNs           NH 2            NH2         HN               N,
   HN     NH       N     NH     HN      N,    HN     NH     HN     NH     N     N   ,     N     NH      N     NHHN           NH
      HN     NH     HN      NH     HN      NH     N     NH     HN     NH   HN      NH        N     NH    HN      NH      HN     NH
          NH 2           NH 2           NH 2         NH 2        HN      H      NH 2            NH2         HNs        H     N,
    H             H              H             H             H           H               H             H
    N             N              N             N             N           N               N             N               N
 HN      NH      N      NH    HN      N      HN     NH    HN      NH     N     N         N    NH       N       H HN         NH
    HN      NH     HN     NH      HN     NH      N    NH     HN      NH   HN      NH        N     NH    HN     NH      HN     NH
         NH 2           NH 2          NH 2          NH2         HNs            NH2            NH 2        HN              I N,
                                                                   -.203   -

     Cl              Cl             CI              CI             Cl            CI             Cl                Cl               CI
    0
    HN     NH
                  0
                  'N        NH
                                  01o
                                  HN         N     HN      NH    HN      NH
                                                                              ol
                                                                              'N       N        N      NH       'N         NH
                                                                                                                                0HN       NH
                              NH     HN         NH      N     NH    HN      NH    HN       NH      N       NH      HN         NH    HN       NH
      HN      NH      HN
                                             NH 2          NH 2    CI HNN              NH 2           NH 2       Cl      HN      ~       N
           NH 2    CI       NH 2
CI                               CI             C                              C           CI                                               Cl
    HN     NH              NH                       HN      NH      HN      NH                  HN      NH           N       NH
       HN      NH
                  y      N\::-NH
                                    HNH
                                           r-N         HN      NH
                                                                HN        \:-N H
                                                                                   HN
                                                                                      \:-N H
                                                                                                   HN
                                                                                                      'y-NH          HN       NH' HN \f: NH
           NH,                         HHNN          HHN                            HNH              'I,\:                           HN NH
                          2
                                               -NH                      HN                   N                        ...-N                 -NH
                        H2N
                                        H 2N                                          HN                                               -N
      CI             CI                   CI           Cl           CI                 CI         CI               Cl                  Cl
 CI          C                   CI                          CI                 C      I                   CI                   CI
     HN     NH                  H                   HN       NH       HN                        HN       NH         HN        NH
        HN     NH       HN      N            -- NHNHN                         NH                                               NH HN         NH
            NH 2                        H      N           HN                        HN       H         NN                            HN
                         H2N                 \N H                        HN              y    NHN                                         \rNH
                                         H2N                                           HN                                              -N
CCI                                                                                              C          I            CIC
    HN      NHN         N     NH                      N    NH           N   NH                  HN       N         HN        NH
                                        NHyNH                                                         NHN                 f7
        HN     NH                    HN                 HN      NH                   N             HN         NH                   H
           HN       N y         N    H         NH       HN      NHNHN        NH....                                                  N      NH
            NH  2        H2N            HN       NH                      HN          HN                                .              HN      NH
                                         H2 N                                          HN                                             ...-N
              Cl                           CI                  CC                                           C                            Cl
      HNyNH            HN      NH                     HN      NH       HN    NH                  HNyNH               HN        NH
         HN      NH      HN            HNNH               HN     NH                 HNN              HN
                                                                                                      N        NH                    HNNH
                    H2                   HN         ~HN                    \Nr        HNN
             NH 2                               N   H                     HN          HN                   NN            .N            HN       NH
                                          H2 N                                           HN                                             .N
                                                             -  204 -

        HN/           HN/          HN/          HN/           HN/           HN/           HN/           HN/           HN/
               NH      N     NH     HN    N,    HN     NH     HN       NH     NH                          N     NH    HN      NH
        HN
          HN      NH    HN      NH    HN      NH     N     NH    HN      NH    HN      NH      N    NH     HN      NH    HN      NH
               NH2           NH2          NH2          NH2           HN,            NH2           NH2          HN             N,
           0/            0/           0/           0/           0/             0/            0/           0/            0/
         HN     NH      N     NH    HN     N,    HN     NH    HN        NH    N      N             NH     N      NH    HN     NH
           HN     NH     HN     NH     HN     NH     N     NH     HN      NH   HN      NH       N    NH    HN      NH    HN      NH
                NH2           NH2          NH2          NH2          HNs            NH2            NH2         HNs            N
          S/             S/           S/           S/            S/            S/            S/            S/             S/
         HN      NH     N      NH    HN     N,    HN     NH    HN       NH     N     N       N     NH      N       H   HN      NH
            HN     NH     HN     NH    HN      NH     N     NH     HN      NH    HN     NH       N    NH     HN     NH     HN     NH
                 NH2           NH2          NH2          NH2           HNs           NH2           NH2          HNN            N
      HN     NH      N    NH     HN     NH    HN     NH      N         H HN       NH    HN     NH      N        H   HN      NH
        HN     NH     HN     NH     HN     NH    HN     NH    HN        NH   HN     NH     HN     NH     HN      NH    HN     NH
             NH2          NH2           N            NH2           NH2            N            NH2            NH2           N
             0             0            0            0              0             0             0             0             0
          HN      NH      N     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH       N     NH    HN     NH     HN     NH       N     NH    HN      NH
              HN     NH     HN     NH    HN     NH    HN     NH     HN      NH    HN     NH     HN     NH     HN     NH     HN     NH
                  NH2           NH2          N            NH2            NH2          N             NH2           NH2            N
           H             H             H           H             H             H             H             H             H
           N             N             N           N             N             N             N             N             N
         HN     NH      N     NH    HN     NH    HN      NH     N        H HN        NH    HN      NH      N      H    HN     NH
            HN     NH    HN      NH    HN      NH   HN     NH     HN       NH   HN     NH     HN     NH     HN      NH    HN      NH
                NH2           NH2          N            NH2             NH2          N             NH2           NH2          N
4.    A composition comprising a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound of structural
Formula IA,
                                                              N           N
                                                  R2 N              N         N'R5
                                                         I           I         I
                                                         RI         R3        R4
                                                                 (IA)
                                                               -205-

wherein:
        R1, R2, R3, R 4, and R5 are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
        optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R1 and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        or R 4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
wherein the composition is adapted to reduce the average bioavailability of the compound,
release a therapeutically effective amount of the compound to one or more regions of the
intestine of a subject, or a combination thereof.
5.      A composition according to claim 4, wherein:
        R 2, R 3, R 4 and R 5 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
and
        R1 is selected from:
        H,
        C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
        CI to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
        C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
        C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C 6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
        C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl,
                                                 -206-

       C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
       phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
       alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
       pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl,
pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
6.     A composition according to claim 4, wherein the compound of Formula IA is selected
from the following structures:
       N-N            N-N              N-N            N-N           N-N           N-N
   H2N  N     NH2   N    N    NH2  H2N  N   NH2    N    N   NH2   NN)"N
                                                                      N     N   N   N   NH2
        H           H    H              I           I   H         H   H     H   H    |
              N-N           N-N           N-N             N-N           N-N
           N   N   N, N     Nk ), NH 2  N kN     N     N,  N    N    N kN     N
           HI      H         I                   H     |   H             I|
                                                -207-

        N--N                          N--N                      N-N                             N-N
     N N N       NNH
                 N                       N     NH            N'N)NH          2                N    N      NH2
     H      H                    H       H                    H    H                          H    H
         N-N                          N-N                        N-N                             N-N
     N      N    NH2              N      N     NH2            N    N)     NH2                 N     N     NH2
            H                            H                         H                                H
         N-NH                          N-N                        N-N
     N      N    NH2              N      N kNH2               N JIN YNH2                      N     N),NH2
     H       H                    H      H                    H     |                         H      H
         N-NH                         N-N                         N-N                            N-N
      NN      N    N               N         N                 N     NN),  N                   N     N
                                                                                                     N     N
      H      H    H                H      H     H              H     H     H                   H     H     H
          N-N                          N-N                        N-N                             N-N
       N     N1    N                N     N),N                 N      N1    N                  N     N Y'N
             H     H                |     H     H               H     H     H                   H    H     H
          N-N                           N-N                        N-N                             N-N
        N     N),N                  NIIN 1       N              N      N),N                     N     N),N
        H     HI                    H      HI                   H      H                        H     HI
          N--                                                      N-N                             N-N
          N      NH             -N-N       N     N              N      N    N                   N     N     N
           | H      |I                     H     |                     H     I                        H     |
        N-N                    N-N                    N-N                  N-N                    N-N
       ,N N      NH       N    N NH        N     N 2
                                                 NH          N         N       N   HN N       N      N     NH2
c           H                     I                     H    H                 H                     H
          N-N                      N-N                   N-N                    N-N                  N-N
              N    NH2         N    N                 N    N                           NH2      HN     N      NH2
                                       H     H             H                      H
       N-N                N-N                   N-N              N-N                  N-N                N-N
  HN      N     N l    HN ilN     N        HN       N NH2    HN ilN 1      NH2     HN ilN     N"    HN ilN        N
                                                                                          HH                  H_   |
     6    H     H     6      H                      H
      N-N                 N--N                 N-N                N--N                     N-N
 HN      N Y'NH2       HN    N),NH2        HN ilN ),N         HN      N    NW          HN ilN      NH2
                H|N-N                              H-        6               H        N    N H             )H N
                            HN    N      NH2                      HN      N      N                        H
                                                                          H      H
                                                          -208-

                                       S         N     N-N                        N-N
2                                                            N~ N IH     H     N    N    NH2
  'NANANH              N NH2     N NH 2            N N       NH 2              N          H
                H        H       ~   J -NH
                                        HH                H           oN
                                                                         1
                                                                                  N-NH
                             N-N                       N-N-N
                                                       HNH2'KI N N N    -N NH2 N    N    NH2
   N    NN   NH-NNH                        I       N     N   NHN                    H
        N                                                H
                             N-N                                                 N--N
                             N-N                     N-N                               N
               H              H                H
                           N   N                   NNNN                             N
           il N   KINAN H        A1N       I aI                   0I           N      K
  N      N                     H H                  NN                          N-N
                                                                                    H     H
  H     H     H   N-N        N-N                   H~' N-N
                                                         H   H
                          NNN-N                N       N-N
    ,il  AA       KYN           NA   N      K-        il )1       0     '"     N      N N.
  N                 N N IIHHN
        H                        H                       HI
                                                       N-N                       N-NN
               N-N           N-N             N
  N     N    N    I      IHI                        NN                         H HI
   H    H                                          H-    H   I      N
                                             -209-

                               f0            ,'O
                                              ,-              ,'-            ,'0
0             0              0             0                0               0                0              0               0
    HN     N 'N            N HN            N       HN N          'N       N     IN        N     HN        N 'N            N HN               N
      HN   yN         HN    y N 'IN        yN       HNY             INN             HN     -N      HN      N .HN          -N         'N      - N
          NH,             NH,            NH,           HNI               NH,           HNII              N    "I                  'I',     'N
  o                           0      0                0               0                0              0         0            0
                HN rN-       _NHN            -N      HN ,rN           - N N           -N< N           HN <_N         -N      _N        HN _N
         HN~<       \    HN       \      N       \HN        N              N\-                          HN    \HN                \-N\
                                                 N         )::NHN                   N -N                                   I\-      NI\-
           H z- N         HN> N        -   )
          HN              HN             HN              HN \              HN            HN               -N \           -N                -N
                                a- -              0 /o            0 /o           0 /o            0 /o           0 /o                 0
   0/o           0
      HN> N           N N>N        HN>N             HN.<-N            N.<N          -N      N       HN>N          -N<\,N                HN <N
       HNjN            HNN            NN              HNN                N~       \    -N             HNN              HN                 -N
        HN             HN            HN                 HN              HN             HN              . N            -N
            -     ~      0~-0~~                         0~-0                            0o                  0          0       ~          0
         0       ~'0            ~0                         0~~~                               0               0        0          0'      0
  HN     YN        N AY N \HN           Y-N \HN Y-N\'N                  N \ I        -N\HN             YN\'N          'r N \HN            Y-N\
     HN-,N          H~f,                  -NN HN-,N                 HNN           ,,yH           HNfN              HN- N              Nr
         NH,             NH,            NH,          HNII             HNII             NH,             N'NlN
       HN .<N       -N ,N           HN >_N          HN>_N              N-N            N ,<N         HN,<N          -N       N        HN>N
        HN      N       HNN           NN              HN~             HN             N        \N      HN \rN         HN~N                N~
          HN            H2 N          H2N               HN              HN             H2 N             -N               -N              -N\
         0       -0            -           0
                                                       0                 '              0'              01
                                                                                                        O             01                    0'
  HN >-N        -N     N       HN      N         HN    N        -N      N       -N       N      HN      N     -N       N            HN       N
     HN             HN~<           NN              HN
                       \f>NIN                                            HN~< ~                   HN,~          HN<                  -NN
      HN           H2N            H2N               HN              HN             H2N             ..- N          -N
                                                                   -210-

                  HO              HO            HO            HO               HO               HO               HO                HO
   HO
HO          HO               HO            HO            HO               HO                HO             HO                 HO
    HN     N\        N       N     HN      N     HN      N\       N      N\        N       N     HN      N\         N        N      HN         N
       HN     N       HN        N     IN      N     HN      N         N      N      HN       N      HN       N       HN          N        N      N
           NH2               NH2           NH2         HNN               NH2             HNI             N                   N                 N
 HO      H      O        H      O       H          OH        O         H             OH        O       H       O        H             OH
         HN     N       .~.N           HN             HN              .~N                 N            HN              ... N              HN       N
           HN     N        HN     N     .N     N       HN      N         HNN                Nz- Ny           \N             HNNN...NN          NN
            H2N             H2N           H2N            HN                HN              H2N             -N                .. N    .-         N
                                                      OH     HO        OH     HO         OH     HO HO          HO       OH          HO        OH
  HO     OH    HO       OH      HO     OH      HO
       HN> N           N       N     HN      N      HN      N      -N             N       >-N        HN              ~N                   HN
        HN      N      HN       N     .. N     N      HN     N         HN               -N     N       HN       N       HN        N         -N yN
                                               N         yN               IN               yN              y{NH               N
                            y N
         H2 N            H2N            H2N            HN               HN               H2N              -N              -N                  .- N
          SOH               OH            OH           OH               OH                OH            OH                  OH               OH
              I        II                           I               I                I              I
          OH               OH             OH           OH               OH                OH            OH                 OH "              OH
   HN     N        N       N      HN            HN     N         N      N         N      N      HN      N          N       N       HN        N
      HN yN          HN       N       N     N     HN      N       HN       N         N      N      HN       N       HN         N        N       N
          NH2              NH2            NH 2        HNI             HNI                NH2          yN                   N                 N
        OH            OH             OH             OH              OH               OH              OH              OH               OH
           OH              OH             OH           OH                OH               OH             OH                 OH,              OH
        HN     N      - N      N      HNXN          HNN             -NN             -N               HNN                N        N     HN
          HN<N           HNN                   N      H      N         HNN             .NN             HN       N        HN       N                N
          H2N             H2N            H2N           HN\               HN\             H2N            .- N              ...--N           ... N
           OH              OH             OH             OH              OH                OH    '        OH                OH                  OH
          OH              OH            OH             OH               OH                OH             OH               OH                   OH
   HN              N              HN            HN            .- N -           ...-N             HN            ...-N                 HN
     HNN           HNN               N            HN     N       HN       N          N     N       HN      N       HN         N         .N       N
      H2N           H2 N            H2 N            HN             HN               H2N                N            .- N                 .N
                                                                -211-

HN          HN?          HN7          HN?           HN?           HN?           HN[          HN ?          HN?
  HN     N      N    N     HN      N      HN     N        N    N       N    N      HN    N        N     N     HN    N
                  HNyN          NyN          HNyN           N     N     HNYN         HN-N          HN      N      N    N
     HNyN
         NH2         NH2           NH2          HN.            NH2         HN            N              N           N
 HN     N       N    N     HN     N      HN      N      N     N       N     N   , HN     N       N     N      HN    N
    HNyN         HNyN         ,NyN          HNyN            N    NH    HN      N     HN     N      HN     NH     N     N
        NH2          NH2          NH2          HN             NH2         HN       N                   N           N
S?           S?           S?-           S?-           S?-           S?                                       S?
 HN     N       N   N      HN     N      HN     N       N     N       N     N     HN     N       N     N     HN     N
    HN     NH    HN   -NH      N     N      HN      N     HN     N     HN     N      HN     N      HN   -NH      N    N
        NH2         NH2           NH2         HNs           HNI           HNI            N             N            N
  H            H            H             H            H              H            H             H             H
  HN    N       N    N     HN      N     HN      N       N     N       N    N     HN     N                     N    N
    HN    -N     HN   -N       N    -N       HN     N       N    N      HN   -N      HN    -N      HN    -N       N -N
        NH 2         NH 2          NH 2        HNs             NH 2        HN     ~      N            HNN           N
 HN     N       N   N      HN     N      HN      N      N     N       N     N     HN     N       N     N     HN     N
    HN    N      HN     N      N     N      HNyN                 NH    HN    -N     HN    -N       HN   -N      HN   -N
        NH 2        NH2           NH 2        HN.             NH2         HNI            N           HNI           N
 HN    N       N    N     HN      N     HN      N       N     N      N     N     HN      N      N     N      HN    N
   HN     N
          N       N    N      NINH H        HN N                 NHHNYN             HNYN          HN     NH      N    N
       HyN      HNyN         IN~y          H       N      ,Ny     HH                   y
                                                                                      NyN                NH 'INyN
       NH 2         NH 2          NH 2        HNs           HNI            NH 2                       N            N
                                                       -212-

HN            HN           HN           HN           HN           HN            HN   .       HN   .       HN
  HN     N        N    N     HN      N    HN      N      N    N       N      N    HN     N       N    N      HN      N
     HN   -INYN           N       N          HNN            NN         HN      N     HN     N     HNYN            N     NH
         NH2           NH2           NH2        HNs           NH2          HN,           N            N              N
       O-      O7           O-           O-            O7          O   .         O -.         O -.         0
  HN    N         N    N     HN     N    HN      N       N   N       N      N    HN      N      N     N     HN      N
    HN      ,NyN         N       NNNN                                 HNyN          HN-N         HN-N             N    N
        NH2           NH2           NH2         HN           NH2           HNI           N            N             N
 HN     N        N    N      HNyN        HN      N      N N          N      N    HN     N       N    N      HN      N
    HNYN          HN-N           N     NH    HN     N      N     NH   HNYN          HN     N            N        N     N
              y       y                     ~yN            Ny                                       y.H<~
        NH2           NH2           NH2        HNs           NH2                        N
                                                                                       INH           N,             N
  H              H           H             H            H            H             H            H             H
  N                 N               N                N               N             N            N             N
                             N      N    H
  HN     N        N    N     HN     N     HN      N      N    N     HN      N     HN     N      N     N     HN       N
         NH2           NH2          N            NH2          NH2           N            NH2          NH2           N
  HN            0N          H0     N       N                                      0            0             0
   \ HN           HN              N N      HN     N     N    N     HN       N    HN     N       N    N      HN      N
    HN-N          HNYNH        HN-N          HNYN         HNYN        HN-N          HN-N         HN-N          HNYN
        NH2           NH2          N             NH2         NH2          IN,           NH2          NH2         'IN,
               S             S           V             S2      -                               S
       90-91              -P\\             \            \         <V9\'-\1--9
 HN Y-N \        NY-N\H-N\               HNY N\_N Y-N \HN             Y-N \HN       Y-N \'N      Y-N \HN       Y
   HN    -N       HN   -N      HN    -N     HN    -N     HN   -N     HN     -N     HN    -N     HN    -N       HN    -N
        NH2           NH2       'N,             NH2          NH,         -IN            NH2          NH2
                                                       -213-

 HN\             N\         HN\           HN             N\            N\         HN\           N            HN\
HN     N       N      N    HN       N    HN     N      N     N       N     N     HN      N    N      N      HN      N
  HN       y      N-N    N   '              HNyN          N     N     HNy-N         HN y    N  HN       N        NyN
       NH 2          NH 2           NH 2      HN             NH 2       HN.                           N             N,
     HNN                   HNyN           HNyN        ~N     N            yN       N                  N        NyN
HN      N       N     N    HN       N    HN      N      N    N       N      N    HN      N    N       N     HN       N
   HN     N                      NN         HN      N     N     N      HN      N    HN      N  HN         N      N      N
        NH 2          NH 2          NH 2       HNs           NH 2         HNI            N            N              N
HN      N       N     N     HN      N    HN      N      N     N       N     N    HN      N    N       N     HN       N
   HN     N      HNYN            Ny-N       HN      N     NYN          HN y N       HN y-N      HN -N             N    -N
        NH2           NH2           NH2        HN,           NH2          HN.            N            N              N
        H             H              H           H            H             H            H            H              H
        N             N             N            N            N             N            N            N              N
HN     N       N      N    HN       N    HN      N      N    N       N      N    HN      N    N       N     HN       N
   HN     N                      N     N    HNYN          NyN         HN       N    HN    -N   HN        N
       NH 2           NH 2          NH2       HN.            NH  2        HN.            N"          N               N
        0              0             0           0            0             0             0           0              0
        /              /             /            /     P/                   /            /            /l             /
HN      N    'N       N     HN      N    HN      N      N          'NN           HN      N    N       N     HN       N
   HN y   N      HN y    N     'IN yN       HN yN               N      HN y    N    HN     -N   HNY             IN      N
        NH 2          NH 2          NH 2       HNII          NH 2         HNNI         "N         'I,              "N"
HN rN \         NY-N \HN        Y-N \HN        -N \'N       -N\'N      Y-N \     HN -N\'N       Y-N \HN         'I--N\
   HNyN       N     y       N NyN           HN y         AyN           HNyN         HNyN       HNYN           'I        N
       NH 2           NH 2          NH 2      HN."           NH 2         HN~            N         IN,               N
                                                       -214-

  HN   -N \'N    Y-N \HN      Y-N \HN        -N \'N      -N \'N      Y-N \     HN    -N \'N     Y-N \HN      Y-N\
    HN      N    HN\N           N\N        HN\N         N\N         HN\N          HN\N          HN     N       N      N
         NH2        NH2            NH2       HNI           NH2         HN             NN
 HN     N      N    N      HN     N     HN    N      N    N       N      N     HN     N       N    N     HN      N
    HN      N   HN      N    "N      N    HNyN         NyN          HN      N     HN      N    HNYN           N     N
        NH2         NH 2          NH2        HN,          NH2          HNI           ,NI           N             N
 HN     N\     N    N      HN     N     HN    N      N    N        N     N     HN     N       N    N     HN      N
    HN      N                  N     N     HNyN         NyN         HNyN          HN-N         HN-N           NYN
        NH2         NH2           NH2        HNs          NH2          HNI            N            N             N
         H           H             H           H           H              H
                                                                                                       NHNN             H
                                                                                            H
                          0    NN
        NH 2        NH 2          NH         HNH2         NH 2         HN      ~      NH2          NH          y~
 HN     N
        NH,    N    N      HN     NN,   HN    NNH    N    N
                                                          NH HN          NNH   HN     N       N    NH    HN     IIN
    HN
         /
            N
               ;x)
                              HNYN
                                   /       HNYN
                                               /      HNyN
                                                         1/         HNyN1/-l-     HNYNNHo HN-NNH           xHNYNNH
 HN     N      N    N     HN      N    HN     N      N    N      HN      N     HN     N       N    N     HN      N
   HN      N    HN     N     HN      N    HN     N    HN     N     HN      N     HN      N     HN    N      HN      N
        NH2        NH 2           N           NH2         NH2         'N             NH 2          NH2        'IN
        /           /           1/             \r//                             XS       0          S              S/
HN     N      N    N      HN    N      HN    N      N    N      HN     N      HN     N       N    N     HN      N
   HN     -N   HN     -N    HN      N    HN     N    HN     N      HN     N     HN     N      HN     N     HN      N
       NH 2        NH 2       'N,            NH 2        NH 2                        NH 2         NH 2          N
                                                    -215-

      HN/             HN/           HN/           HN/          HN/           HN/           HN/           HN/           HN/
       HN     N            NN        HN    N      HN     N        N    N       N     N      HN     N                    HN     N
                 ,N      yN     N        N           HN    N         N    N     HN     N       HN     N      HN     N        N   N
          HN
              NH2            NH2           NH2          HNN            NH2         HN              N             N             N
     0/              0/           O/           O/             O/            0/            0/             0/            0/
   HN      N        N     N      HN     N     HN      N       N     N                   HNN                   N     HN
      HN      N      HN      N        NYN        HNYN            N     N    HN      N      HN      N     HN    -N     'N     -N
           NH2            NH2           NH2         HN,             NH2        HN               N             N             N
 S/            S/              S/           S/            S/            S             S              S            S
HN      N       N     N      HN      N    HN      N       N             N    N       HN      N       NyN        HNyN
  HN     -N      HNyN           _NN          HN       N      N      N    HN      N      HN    -N      HN     N N
        NH2           NH2            NH2        HNI              NH2        HN               N             N            N
        S              S             S             S             S            S              S             S             S
     HN      NHNyN                              HN      N       N     N      N     N      HN      N       N     N    HNyN
        HNYN           HN      N       N     N     HNYN          HNYN         HNYN           HNYN          HNYN            N    N
             NH2            NH2           NH2         HN,           HNs          HN               N            N              N
                                                                            0              0             0             0
     0   5          0   5          0            0              0
  HN       N       NyN          HNyN         HNyN             N                     N HN        N N        N       HNyN
      HN     N       HN      N                  HNN              NyN        HNyN          HNN N          H      N        N    N
           NH2            NH            NH2          H              NH2        HNs            ,N            ,N            ,N
    H                 NH 2        H            H             H            H              H             H         NH
    N             N               N            N             N            N              N             N            N
 HN               NyN          HNyN\        HNyN\          NyN            Ny N        HN\             _NN N\      HNyN\
    HN      N              N        N N         N
                                               HN      N     _N     -N     HN      N     HN      N     HN      N       N     N
         NH2            NH2           NH2         HN              NH2        HNs I           NN             N             N
                                                             -216-

  HN /         HN /           HN /        HN /         HN /        HN /         HN /         HN /         HN /
  HN      N      N    N       HN    N     HN     N      N     N      N    N     HN      N      N     N    HN     N
     HN     N     HN     N        NyN        HN     N       NfN       HN     N     HN     N     HN     N      NyN
          NH2         NH2           NH2         HNs           NH2        HNI            N            N         'N"
    0/            0/            0           0            O/           0/          0/           0/          0/
   HN     N      N     N      HN     N     HN    N       N    N      N     N     HN     N      N     N    HN     N
     HN      N     HN     ,       Ny    N     HNyN          Ny   N    HNyN          HNyN        HNyN           NyN
          NH2          NH2           NH2        HN,           NH2        HNI            N            N           N
     S/           S/            S/           S/           S/          S/            S/            S/          S/
   HN      N      N     N      HN     N    HN     N       N    N      N    NN      N     N      N     N    HN     N
       HN   -N     HN       N      NyN        HNyN         ,N     N    HN     N      HN    N      HN    N      N     N
           NH2          NH2           NH2        HNs           NH2        HNI            N            N           N
                                                                       SS                    S
HN      N      N    N       HN    N     HN     N      N     N    HN     N     HN      N      N     N    HN     N
   HNYN         HN     N      HNYN         HNYN        HNYN         HNYN         HNYN         HNYN        HNYN
        NH2         NH2           N            NH2          NH2         N             NH2          NH2      'N
     HN     N       N    N      HN     N     HN     N       N   N     HN     N     HN     N       N    N     HN    N
        HN     N     HN      N     HN    -N     HN    N      HN    N     HN   -N      HN   -N      HN   -N     HN    -N
            NH2          NH2           N            NH2         NH2          N,           NH2          NH2       yN
      H            H     H             H            H                               H           H            H
      N            N             N            N           N           N             N            N           N
   HN      N      N     N      HN     N    HN     N       N    N    HN     N     HN      N      N     N    HN     N
       HN   -N     HN       N    HN     N     HN     N     HN    N     HN     N      HN    N      HN    N     HN   -N
           NH2         NH2           N,           NH2          NH2         N"            NH2          NH2         N"
                                                        -217-

    CI             Cl              CI             Cl              CI             CI               CI              CI             Cl
  0
  HN      N
                0
                'N        N
                                oHN        N
                                                0
                                                HN       N        N      N
                                                                              0  N     N
                                                                                               o
                                                                                               0 HN      N       HN       N
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               HN       N
      HN     N       HN      N        N       N    HNYN               N    N       HN      N       HNYN             HN      N       NN
                                                                         NH2          HN          N "N"                 HNT       .     N,
          NH2      CI     NH2              NH2          HNN       C
  C                            C              CC                                                                                           Cl
  HNyN              HNN                           HN               HN      N                      HN               HN
       HN             HN N         HN                HNHN             HN      N    HN                HN           N          N    HN      N
          N      H      N           HN                 HN,,                          HN
                       H2 N            NN                              HN               yN                             ..-N             yN
                                      H2N                                              HN                                           ...-N
     CI             CI                  CI           CI            CI                  CI            CI            CI                 CI
C    ,      Cl                  Cl         Cl               CI                  Cl        Cl               Cl                  C,
   HN                HN      N                    HN                 HN               N           HN      N         HN
       HN                                                       NN HN              N       HN N            N           HN      N    HN
                 S      H2N           HN      N                           N           HN                  N             .     N             N
                                       H2N                                             HN                                            .N
Cl             1         C,                 C,             C       C                         ICI              ,\          CCI
   HN YN                HN                        HN             N                                HN             N
                                                         -\         HN     N                          y    \        HNN
       HN              HN        N NN                    M     N      HN     \N     -NHN                      N                    HN
           NH           N             H                                       N                           HNHN                N
               y        HN    N        H2 NHN                 N N       HN      N         N             HN N
                                                                                                        H                                N
                                                                                                                                     .- HN
                                                                        MNN               MN
                          HNHN                     HNyN                                                  N.N
                                              NN                                   N                                                MNN
        HN     N               NHNN                     H/
                                                        HNN 'N             \   HN        HN              N      N                   HN
           y            HN                                 HN-,                     N                                I      f:
            NH,
                         H2 N
                                                 HN
                                                                  -N
                                                                        *r\N
                                                                         HN            HN                                             HN
                                                     M   2    N                          MN
                                                                 -218-

7.       A composition comprising a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound of structural
Formula II,
                                                     R8
                                                  N      N
                                             RN      N       N'Rs
                                               I             I
                                              R1             R
                                                  KI         K
wherein:
         R 1, R 2, R 4, and R 5, are independently selected from:
         H, OH,
         O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
         optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkyiheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
         optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
         or R 1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
         or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
        R 8 is selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkynyl; cycloaklyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkyiheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g.,
alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally
substituted heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and -NRaRb
        wherein Ra and Rb are independently selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted
alkynyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocyclalkyl; alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally
substituted aryl, optionally substituted alkylary, optionally substituted heteroaryl, and optionally
substituted alkylheteroaryl;
wherein the composition is adapted to reduce the average bioavailability of the compound,
release a therapeutically effective amount of the compound to one or more regions of the
intestine of a subject, or a combination thereof.
                                                   -219-

8.     The composition according to claim 7, wherein:
       R2, R3, and R4 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
       R 5 is selected from H , CH3, lower alkyl, NH 2, NIICH3, N(CH 3)2, NII-alkyl,
N(alkyl) 2;and
       R1 is selected from:
       H,
       C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, Nil 2, NH
alkyl,
       C 1 to C 1 2 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
       C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
       C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C 2 to C 6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
       C 4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl,
       C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
       phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
       alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
       pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl,
pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
                                                - 220 -

9.       The composition according to claim 7, wherein the compound of Formula II is selected
from the following structures:
          NH2                 NH2           NH2               NH2              NH2             NH
       N      N           N 'N            N    N            N    N           N   N           NN
   H2N    N     NH 2 -N            NH2 N    N     N     N     N    NH 2  N         N     N     N   N
                       H               H          H                                H     H         H
          NH                 NAH            N
       N   'N             N    N          N    N             NA N             N-N            N   N
    N     N NN        NA N        N    N)   N     N    H2N     N    NH2   N     N   NH 2 N     N   N
                H      |                                                  H              H         H
       N-kN               N'    N           Nh   N           N    N           N   N           NN
     N    N     NH2     N    N   N       N    N                        N N      N   NN    N
                                   H                H     |          |     I         |     |
                                                      -221-

        NH,                         NH,                             NH,                            NH,
      N' " N                     N'NN                            N'         N                  N'J' N
  ,---N N      ,-t H2 ~N     <N 1<lN H,                       N< N 1KlN H,      ~         N <N      1< NH,
      H NH,                         NH2                       H     NH2                            NH2
      N'kYN                      N"- N                           N" N                          N" N
   N N li NNH,                          '---     lN2N1i    NH                      N 2             N1    NH2
               N2      NH2                          NH2                                            NH2
      N" N                       N" N                             NH 2N                          A'
      H NH2                         NH2                             NH2                            NH2
      N ' N                             N"-YN                            N" N                  N
             H                I           H                    I           H                             H
        N H                H           H                      H         H                   H         H
               NHNH                                                 NH                             NH
       A"                        N" N                            N"YN                            "N
        I    H              j             H                               H                 jH
              N2       NH2                          NH 2                                           NH2
     N" N                        N" N                             NH 2 N                       N"N
   H         IH                             IH                                              H
                                N22NH 2                                                            NH2
      N"YN                         NH 2                           NH   2N                        A"
           N i1       lNl         1N 1i NN                            NN                      N     "i11N i
         I    ''N I            I          N''N I                    I      W NI                  I       W NI
N N :NANANH 2                 li    N-iNH   2     -   "  N       N NA NH2              '-       1 NNAiNH 2
   H                       H                                  H                             H
     N LN                        N'   N                          W    N                        WN NN
 N N -NANANH 2             N  At NA1j NH2                     N AN A-i NH2                         N~- NANANH2
    N N1ilN         N            N iN                          N    N      NN                      N1iN
   H            H          H             H                    H           H                 H           H
   N"N-i NN                N~-~ NNN              -li NN"            N ANi                          NANA-i N~
   H                       H             IH                                       IH
                                                    -   222 -

        NH 2                            NH,                             NH 2                          NH,
              N    lNN'                  N                          N'"N                           N J"N
                           I1  I                            A _j       H      1 1 'l      l,   - NA'llN AJNH 2
         H H                 2  1 :       NH2                   H          NH2                      H    2
                                   H N                      NH2
        NH,                            NH 2                             NH2                         NHN
      N%NIIN                        N'J:ZN                             Al                           '"
KNNAN                  N               N     H2                 N N ~NN                          H~ N~H       2
                                  H H          H   H    N                            H       2        NH 2
                H  2                I                                   NHH
                                                     11     NN                                                    'NH
                                    NN                N           N                              NANN
  IIN )j,  N       N!              H
                                        N   H      '            N
                                                                  'illN -I N                     H           H
    H                HH                 NH                      H    1NH         H~                    NH
      N'JN                           N"'        N                   NIJIN                           NN
         N                    N             H                    N       NN             I                    H
            N2H                         NH                             'NH2    HNH2
                N'"NN                     N                              A'"                        NilN
            ,il-l        :         N llN -,N            ~             '        -J                N     N AN~
                                      N NN    N'                          N N                       N HN
            NI                 N             H                                           I'NNI     N'ANA
       Ni N-lN2N'1N 1,NH 2             A2"                         '1 N JNH2                      NilNIJ        H
        A''                          N'"N                           NI       NN                     N      "N
         NIII JlN2              i     "       "j H       l          i N -N        2 0      I     Hl        I    H
     HI       NN                      NXN                        HI          NN                     N     N
KI~NAN<lN           H2  N'        N '"N ",NH                     NI N l        N'H    -          N illN INH
    H                             H                              H                       I        H
              N        N~N            NN                 -223-

                                                            f-       -             r -o      -f0              r-O
0i              0                 0               0                   0                   0                0
        H--   N                              N _ HN 2N          N NH 2NHN _N NHHN._N                         NHN      N    N
         HN     NH              ,..    NHHN..Hy                     -NH                 , H             eN               y
        N N              N.N               N N             N -N                N   NN               N   N           NN
                                            H N \ 0-       HN~ 0                         110- /o
     0   N-0H2N 0          H2    0-
                                     HN                 N                      H Nr -N>H          N    N        HHN~ N
             NH                H              NH           HN                      -N      H          -NH
             N        N                                  N       N                             N                    N
         N                 -N        HN      N                     -NN                                N   . - N N1     N
       H2N            H2N                HN\                         HNN      -N\                -N                 N
                                                O0                                                                0
                                    O0
                                  0-~N                                           0~        0
        HN N        HNN                 HNN               N     N            N&N                   NN      -N           N
                       77
                        N-
                              'yNH2 N
                                      2,       stYH2
                                                       N-..2 N
                                                                 Y77N
                                                                                 NH2                     NH             yN
                                                                                                                           N
         NY             N                  N  N              NY                  N N            ~NN                 N    N
          NH2         H 2N                H2N                   NH2             H2N                HN               -N
                                                O0                                                                  0
   0\                                                0\
   0                                                 0
   HN      N   NH 2  ,~
                          -    HN-%N
                               NH2
                                                                 N
                                                           N) 772H        NH2     'N-N       NH~N -N-%          2N\H
                                NN                  >                 NH2-NH~
        NY            N                   NNN                                         N~
                                     _N       NNN                                     -            -N -NN
                                                              - 224     -

    HO               HO                 HO                  HO              HO                  HO                   HO
HO                HO                 HO                 HO               HO               HO                  HO
     HN     N    NH 2   N     N     NH2 HN        N     NH2    N   N     NH HN       N    NH2 HN         N     NH HN         N     N
          N    N           N     N             N     N           N     N         NYN                 N      N             N      N
            NH2               NH2               HNN               HN,                N                   N                   N
      HOOH         HOOH             HOOH              HOOH             HOOH              HOOH              HOOH
   NO,             HO0              HO,               H0               HO                HO                HON
            HN    N       N N      NN       HN _N                    N                     N2HNN HN       N      /    HN      N
                                NH rNH2 f              ,N     NH2         H2      T~N         2              <N            f
                                                            2
                  NN           N N                 NN                  N                N                   N                   N
              H2N             H2N               HN               HN              -N                 -N         -N
                                                              OH         HO    OH         HO     OH           HO       OH
   HO     OH        HO    OH        HO    OH            HO
       HN      N       -N       N       HN       NNH -          N    N       HN     N        NHN       N     NH      HN < N
                                                  N                 N                 N                  N                     N
               -N                 N
           H2N             H2N              HN                 HN                 N               -N                       N
                                                                               OH           HO                 HO
                        OH           HO
                            OH      HO                                             OH     HO                 HO
 HO                                 HO    \    /         HO
 HO                                                      HO y
       HN      N    NH2 HN      N     NHN          N     NH2    N    N    NH2   -NN         NH2          N         -NH2..     N
                   Y-                                I-H    2                                         j>H   I~7                  I~N2
                                                                   N    N          N                 N                    N
            N    N
                     y
                            N
                                 N         ~   N
                                                    N                                   N        ~         NN
               NH2         H2N                H2N                    NH 2         H2N               H2N                   -N
                                                                                OH           HO                 HO
                       OH           HO
                      H    OH      HO   \                 HO----,            1 \OH          HO    \            HO
HO J    )                                                 HO
H         )HO-)
      HN     N     NH2 HN      N     NH HN       N.. NH          N    NyNH2 -N          N    NH2 .         N            HN      N
           N. 'N           N                       N                                N/                 N      r                N
            y                    N           N      NNN                             NN                       N
               ,          .- N              .- N                      N            -N                  -N\                  -N
                                                                   - 225 -

HN?_           HN?                HN?_           HN?_            HN_            HN?             HN_
 HN    N     NH 2 /N      N     NH2 HN     N    NH2 HN    N     NH N    N    NH2 HN     N    NH2 HN      N     N
     N    N            NNN              N     N        N     N       N     N         N    N           N     N
       NH2                NH2            HN.            HN,           HN,               N                N
     2222O22                                                            N     NH2 HN    N    NH2 HN       N     N
  HN    N    NH 2 'N       N    NH2 HN     N    NH2 HN     N    NH N
     NNN                N    N          NNN             N    N        N    N          N    N           N    N
        NH2                NH2            HNs            HN            HN.              N                 NN.
 S?               S?                S?              S?            S?             S??
  HN    N    NH2   /N      N    NH2 HN     N    NH2 HN     N    NH N    N     NH2 HN    N    NH2 HNyN           N
     N    N             N    N          NYN             N    N        N    N          NyN              N    N
        NH2          H     NH2       H    HN,        H   HNN        H HNN          H-   N,          H-    N,,
  H
                                                                               N             N          N
  HN   N9N    NH 2 N       N     N 2 HN
                                 NH         N N NH 2 HN N N      NHN N N      NH2HN      N NH2 HN         N     N
      N NH2N             N N2N           NHH N          NHHsyNN       N     N            N 2
                                                                                       NNN             N      N
        NH 2               NH 2           HNs            HN,           HN,               N
  HN     N    NH 2    Ny   NY, NH2 HNy N. NH2 HN            N    NH  N Ny NH2 HNyy N,         NH2 HNy N
                                                                                         N NH2N                  N
      NyN                N    N           N N            N    N        NYN             NNN              N     N
         NH2                NH2            HNN            HNN           HN               N                 NN
                                                          - 226 -

HN               HN               HN_              HN                 HN                   HN               HN    .
 HN    N     NH2     N     N    NH2 HN      N    NHHN          N     NH     N N        NH2
                                                                                         2   HN    N    NH2 HN         N    N
     N   N             N     N           N     N           N      N            N    N            N   N              NYN
       NH2                 NH2             HNN               HNN                HN                 N                   N
                                             O        O7                O                    O
 HN    N     NH2     N     N    NH2 HN      N    NH2 HN        N     NH N         N     NH2 HN     N     NH2 00HNyN YNN
     NYN                 N    N           NYN               NYN                NYN               NYN                NYN
       NH2                 NH2             HNN                HN                HN                 N                   N
 HN    N     NH2 ,N        N    NH2 HN      N    NH2 HN        N     NH N         N     NH2 HN y   NYyNH2 HN y         NNK
     NYN                 N    N           NYN               NYN                NNN               NYN                NYN
       NH2                 NH2             HN                 HNN               HNN                N                   N
  H                  H                 H                H                    H                 H                 H
  N                  N                 N                N                      N                 N               N
  HN    N     NH 2 .HN      N    NH 2 HN     N   NH 2 HN        N     NH2N        N     NH 2HN      N     NH 2 HN       N    NH2
      NYN                NYN               NYN               NYN               NYN                NYN               Ny N
       NH 2                 NH2              NH                 NH 2              NH 2               N                 NH 2
   H                 H
                                                                   0                   0
                                               0
     N       NN
                     N
              NNH 2 HN      N    NH2 HN      N            NNN           H2HN        N      NH2 HN    N     NH2 N N          NH 2
      NYN                NYN               NYN                NYN                NyN               N    N             NyN
        NH 2                                 NH2                 NH2                                 NH2                 NH2
                    0                 0                0                     S                  S                 S
 HN    N     NH 2 HN       N    NH2 1N      N    NH 2 HN       N     NH 2 HN       N      NH 2 ,N    N     NH2 HNyNNH2
     NYN                NYN              NYN               NyN                  NYN                NYN               NYN
      ,N,      S           NH2   S          NH 2  S                       s
                                                                          s,       NH2        s      NH 2      s        N,,
              HNY-N7   7  NH 2    NY-N
                                     7   7  NH 2 HNY-N 7    7  NH 2     HN YN YNH2             NY-N YNH2 HN Y-N YNH2
                  NYN                NYN              NYN                     NYN                NYN               NYN
                     NH2                NH2              IN,,                    NH2               NH2              I,
                                                               -  227   -

 HN Y-N YNH2        NY-N YNH2 HN Y-N YNH2                N Y-N YNH2       HN Y-N YNH       HN Y-N yNH2 HN Y-N yN,
     NN          N     N      N'           NN        N        N         N       N        N         N         N    N    N
       NH2                NH2               HN\              HN\               HN\             HN\               HN\
 HN     NYNH         N     NyNHHN             N    NH2    N    N     NH2 HN      N    NH    HN     N     NH2 HN      N    N
               2
     N     N            N     N            N    N           N     N           NNN                N     N          N    N
        NH2                NH2              HN,              HN,               HN                  N                 N
            YY,              Y,          YY            ~Y-Y                  Y-y                     Y           Y-Y
 HN    N     NH2 .,N      N      NH2 HN      N    NH2    N    N     NH2 HN      N    NH    HN      N     NH2 HN     N     N
     N    N            N      N           N     N           N     N           N    N            N     N           N    N
       NH2                NH2               HN,              HN                HN                  N                N
       HN    NH     NN H         NH 2 HN     NH   NH2    N    NH    NH 2 HN     N     NH HN..NYNH  H       2 HN     NH    N
        H                                                                        H
        N          NN NNN                 NNN                  N
                                                            N-.N                 N
                                                                              N-.N                 N
                                                                                                N-.N                 N
                                                                                                                  N-.N
HN     N     NH 2   N     N      NH 2 HN     N    NH2    N    N     NH 2 HN     N    NH    HN      N     NH 2 HN    N    N
        YY,           Y-    Y          Y,N-.N  Y             -Y              YY               Y-Y                7Y
     N-.N              N--.N                                NNN               N-.N             N--.N              N-.N
HN
       NH2
       N    NH 2 N
                          NH
                         N 2 NH 2 HN
                                           HN
                                             N    NH
                                                    ~   N
                                                             HN.
                                                              N     NH2   HN
                                                                              HN
                                                                                N    NH    HN     N
                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                        NH 2 HN
                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                    N    N
                                                     2
    NN                 N     N            NN               N     N           N    N            N     N           N    N
       NH2
HN '1-NY                 NH 2
                         NYNH               NYNH2 ,N l HNK
                                           HNK                                HN YNHHN            N YNH HN YNN,
              H     N-             2 HN l                     N YNH2 HN Y-N                      -N        2             NK
             NyN       NN                 NY.N             N-..N             N-.N
                                                                                /              Ny / N                 N
       /                  /l                 /                /                      I       r-28
    Y ,              YY                  Y ,                 Y               Y                  Y                YY
      NH2                NH2              HN,               HN,               HN,               ,N
                                                               -228-

HN 'IT  ,NYNH2        NY-N YNH2 HN Y-N YNH2                   NY-N YNH2         HN Y-N YNH          HN Y-N YNH2 HN Y-N YN,
            N            N      N          N     N               Ny    N            N      N             N      N           N     N
     N
         NH2                 NH2            HN\                   HN\                 HN\               HN                    N
 HN      N     NH2    N      N    NH2HN        N     NH 2    ,N      NYNH2 HN           N     NH    HN        N     NH 2 HN     N     N,
      NN    N            Ny     N           N     N              N     N             Ny     N             N     N           N      N
         NH 2                NH 2            HNN                   HNN                HN'                  -NN                IN,
HN       N     NH 2   N      N    NH 2 HN     N      NH 2     N     N     NH2   HN      N     NH    HN        N    NH 2 HN     N     N,
     N'.    N            N      N          Ny    N               N     N            N      N             Ny     N           N     N
         NH 2                NH 2           HNN                   HN.'                HNN                    N                IN,
HN       N
          H
               NH 2 ~N       N
                              H
                                  NH 2 HN     N
                                               H
                                                     NH 2 H~N..N..NH 2
                                                                     H
                                                                                HN      N
                                                                                         H
                                                                                              NH2 HN          N
                                                                                                              HH
                                                                                                                   NH 2 HN     N     NH
                         N      N          N     N               N     N            N      N             N      N           N     N
     N      N
         NH 2                NH 2           HN                    HNH2                HNH2                   NN                NH2
  N      N     NH2HN         N    NH2HN       N      NH2      N     N     NH2   HN     N      NH2   HN       N    NH2     N    N     NH2
      N     N            N      N          N     N               N     N            N      N             N      N             N
     P/             I         /             1k /                  II                  1/              ru1//
         NH2               HNHNH                                    NH2                NH                   INH2               NH2
         H
HN          N                N    NH 2HN       N     NH  2  HN       N    NH 2    N    N      NH 2 HN         N    NH2 HN      N     NH 2
     N'N N               N      N          Ny N                  N     N             N'    N             N      N           Ny    N
             r1l--P                            /               P/                       /                 1
                                                 HAN'N                         S         7
                                                                                   7HNHNS.NH(NHN
     N.<N     NH 2N HNNYN<                NNH 2 HN             NY NYNH
                                                                   2 YNH  HN     N        2       N      N NH 2      HHN'.N N NH 2
      N'..N              N      N          N      N             N -N                N         N          N'N                Ny    N
    HN N     N NY         H      NY     N    N      NH    2N         N
                                                                     NH 2        N
                                                                               ANY      N NH 2    N      N      NH 2 HN     N     NH 2
          N' N         N   '       N
                                  N..            N'. y         N .'.   N            N            NN'.           N'.
                                                                                                                N           N'.N
                  NH2                 NH2              INHs                      NH    2              NH 2               N       N
                                                                      -229-

HN/                 HN/                HN/                HN/                  HN/              HN/              HN/
HN yN        NH2N          N     NH2 HN YN          NH2N          N      NH 2 HN       N    NHN       N     NH 2 HN     N    N
    N     N             N      N           N     N              N    N              N     N         NN N             N     N
       NH 2                NH 2             HN,                  HN,       _         HN,              N               ,N,
            0/                   0/                 0/                  0/                  0               0                0
           HN       N     NH 2   N     N     NH 2 HN       N     NH 2   Ny      N     NH 2 HN    N    NHN         N    NH2HN       N    N
                NYN                  N    N            NYN                  N     N           NYN             NYN              NN
                    NH2      -         NH2      -        HN                  HN          -      HN                N                N
       S/                  S8/                S/                  8   /                 S/              S/
      HN     N      NH2     N    N      NH2 HN      N      NH 2   N      N      NH 2 HN     N     NHN       N     NH2HN      N     N
          N     N              N     N           N      N            N       N            N    N          N   N            N    N
    H        NH 2       H        NH 2      H       HN,          H      HN,          H      HK,      H       N        H       N
  HN Y-N YNH2 ,N YN yNH2 HN YN yNH2 ,N YN yNH2 HN YN yNH ,N YN yNH2HN Y-N yN,
      NYN                  N     N           Ny                         N             NN              N
         NH2                 NH2              HNs     0            HNs,                HN,             ,N,                N,
            HN Y-N yNH2,           N YN yNH2 HN YN yNH2 ,N YN YNH2HN YN yNH ,N YN yNH2HN Y-N yN,
                  N N                 NN                 N     N             N      N           NN              Ny   N           N    N
               S     NH2,                NH2     S        HN         S         HN         S      HN,     S         N-      S        N
       HN      NYNH2N               N    NH 2 HN       N     NH 2 /N       N      NH   HN     N     NHN       N     NH 2 HN    N     N,
                                                                                  2
            N      N             N     N           N      N          NN        N         N       N          N    N           N    N
               NH
                2                   NH 2             HNs                 HNs                 HNs              N              N
                                                                         -230-

HN/               HN/                  HN/                HN/                 HN/            HN/              HN/
HN     NYNH2N               N     NH 2 HN      NYNH2N             N      NH 2 HN .< NY   NHyN       NY    NH 2 HN    N      N,
   N     N               NYN                N..N               NYN               N    N           N    N          NYN
       NH 2                 NH 2             HN       __        HNN               HNN      -        N                N
             0/                  0/                  0/                     /            0/              00/                   /
           HN     N       NH        N         N N                     ,                             NH N       N    NH 2 HNN           N
               NYN                  NyN                NyN                  NyN             NyN              NyN               NyN
                       2NH
                       2               NH 2      -       HNN                 HN               HN,              N                  N
     HN      N    NH 2      N    N     NH HN         N    NH 2    NY     NYNH2 HN        N     NH N       N    NH2HN        N     N
         N     N               N    N              N    N            N      N         N      N         N     N           N     N
   H         NH 2        H        NH 2      H       HNN       H        HN               HN                N                  N
 HN Y-N YNH2 ,N YN yNH2 HN Y-N yNH2 HN IT NyNH2" NYN yNH2HN Y                                          NYNH2HN Y         NYNH2
      NYN                  NYN                N\N                NYN               NYN              N     N          N       N
        NH2                   NH2N                      N              H2            NH2               N                 NH2
            HN HHN         NH2-N       N      NH 2 HN      N         N    NH  2    NH 2 HN     N    NH 2 HN       N     NH     N    N    NH2
                N    ..    N..       N        N.        N        N          N      N         N      N         N     N            N     N
         N        NH2         NH         H2    .N     H              N  2             NNH2
                                                                                         \ -       NK            NH2                NH2
       HN      N     N          NN                    N      NH2 HN        N    NH2HN      N      NH2N       N    NH2 HN         N    NH2
            NYN                  NYN                  N                  N                N                N    N             NN
                                                                                                             NH2        SN
                                                                        -N,                NH2
                                                       NH2 5       \
                  N        S       NH2    5
                    HN       N     NH2/N        N     NH 2 HN     N       NH2   HN    NH       N    NH       HN NNH2       N     NH2N
                          NNN                NYN               NYN                  NYN               NYN              NYN
                             NH
                             2                  NH 2                 NH               NH 2
                                                               2                                        NH2
                                                                          -231-

       CI                 Cl                 CI                   CI                   CI               Ci                   CI
      HN      N     NH2   N      N    NH 2 HN       N    NH 2 HN         N     NH2 HN        N   NH HN       N       NH 2 HN       N   N
           NYN                N    N            NYN                  NYN                  NYN              N    N               NYN
              NH2                NH2              HNN                  HN                  HN                 N                    N
                                   NH2                                         - HN                                            N
           C                     N   N                 C                       N     N               CI                      N "N
    C                     H 2N     NilNHN     C                           HN'lN         NHC                            H N'    N     NH
        -             HN          NH2                              HN      2N
                                                                           N     NH                           HN        N     NH2
       HN      N  Y-Y,
                     NH2 N      N         I         HN Y    N    Y
                                                                 NH2       N                     HN   r N  , NH2      YN
            NYN             NH2                  C1     N~l   N          HNr                    C1    N*YN           1N,                 Cl
               NH2                 NH2                     NH                    HN                     N                      N
        C1 Ct             H2N      NNH        CI     CN                   H2N           NH Cl      Cl C16        )     H2N     N1    NH
                       HN     N    NH2                              HN      N     NH2                           HN       N
                                   NH 2                                          H                                             NH2
       HN      N     NH2 NN N                       HN     N     NH 2                      N     NH     N
                                                                                                        NN            NNYN N
                                                                                                                   2
            NYN              NH2                 CI     N     N           HN                    C     N    N             N               Cl
               H2  N                       C             HNH                               C            N                      N       C
                l Y     C        N
                                 N   N                 Y Y            C "Y     N"N                 CI      I -Cl            N"N
              YH          H2N      N    NH
                                            1             N,I '          H 2N     Y
                                                                                  N     NH              Y              1
                                                                                                                      H2N      N    NH
       ClHN Cl    H NH2      N    NNH2,       C      Ci NNHJ'       HN      N NNH2         C1ClHN CI                     N N~NH2N N
           N
           N      N
                      NH   N
                           I
                             NH2
                                   NH 2
                                 N"N
                                                C1
                                                    N
                                                        NN
                                                                N''
                                                                    N
                                                                          HN
                                                                            N
                                                                              3"  NH2 N
                                                                                                C
                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                      N    N
                                                                                                                NH       N
                                                                                                                            IN
                                                                                                                               NH
                                                                                                                         N,
                           HN2N    H     NH                               H 2N     N     NH                            H2 N     N "NH
       CI              HN     NNNH2                  zN              N                2                          HN HN          NH2
        HN     N     NH2 NY HNHN                            N     NH2          N                  HN     N    NH2 H         N          N
             NY N             NH2                        N    N            HNT                         NYN                N
               NH2                          C1            HN                               Cl            NC
10.       A composition comprising a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound of structural
Formula III,
                                                                   Rg R10
                                                                N           N
                                                     R2' N             N          N/RS
                                                            I           I          I
                                                          R1          R3          R4
                                                                     (III)
                                                                   -232-

 wherein:
         R1, R2, R3, R4, R 5, R9, and RIO, are independently selected from:
         H, OH,
         O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
         optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
 alkylheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
         optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
 heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
         or R1 and R2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
 nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
 or R4 and R5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl, imidazolyl,
 pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the nitrogen
 atoms to which they are attached;
 wherein the composition is adapted to reduce the average bioavailability of the compound,
 release a therapeutically effective amount of the compound to one or more regions of the
 intestine of a subject, or a combination thereof.
 11.     The composition according to claim 10, wherein:
         R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or
 isopropyl; and R1 is selected from:
         H,
         C1 to C12   straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
 oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
         C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, Nil 2, NH
alkyl,
         C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
         C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
         C 4 to C12 alkylcycloalkyl,
                                                  -233-

          C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
          aryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
           alkylaryl, alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
          heteroaryl, pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl,
diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted,
           alkylheteroaryl, pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, diazolyl,
pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
 12.      The composition according to claim10, wherein the compound of Formula III is selected
from the following structures:
          N     N              N     N            N'N                         N      N              N     N            N       N
     H2N     N     NH2  'N 'Ni        N H,   HN        N    NH2          N        N    NH2       N     N),    N     N'      N)NH    2
             H             H      H                                               H              H     H      H     H       I
           N     N              N     N           N      N                  N       N             N     N             N      N
        N     N     NH,     N       N    N'  'N)NN                     N        N     N       N      N     N     N       N       N
              I              I      H                 |    H                          H        |     H      I     I       |      |
         N     N             N      N            N      N                    N      N              N1    N            N       N
    H2N     N     NH2     N'N          NH2  HN       N     NH2      I N          NA NH2         N    N      N   'ilN
                                                                                                                 N               NH2
            H             H      H          H         I                          H              H     H      H   H        I
          SN    NNH2           N     N           NN                                                                 N       N
       N'ilNl      NH2   'N 'ilN        N     N    N),N              N ilN           N      N       N     N     N       N),N
                                  H     H           |     H          |               H      |       H
                                 1
          N     N              N     N            N      N                    N      N              N    N             N       N
     HN 'N     kNH         N     N     NH2  H2N       N    NH2           N        N    NH 2
            H              H     H                                                H              H    H       H     H
           N     N              N     N          N      N                   N      N              N     N            N        N
        N    N     NH2      N      NNN N      N      N     N"     '        illNN      N      N      N      N    N        N      Nl
                                   H    H                  H                    |     H       |     H      |     |       |
          N     N              N     N            N      N                    N      N              N    N             N       N
     H2N     N     NH2     N     N     NH2  H2N       N    NH2           N        N    NH2       N    N       N     N'ill N       NH2
             H             H     H                                       |        H              H    H       H     H
           N     N              N     N          N      N                   N      N              N     N            N        N
        N    N     NH2    'NA      N    N      N     N     N          N        N      N      Nk     N      N    N        N kN
                                   H    H             I    H           |              H             H      [      |      |
                                                                -234-

        N.N       NAN             XN      N       XN               N X N        N    N
HN IIN )
     H
          NH2  ~'N
               H     H
                      N NH,
                          2
                                HWN''N H,
                                        N 2
                                              'N
                                               I
                                                  1N
                                                    H
                                                         NH,
                                                                 H
                                                                    'N1'N N
                                                                      H   H
                                                                             '~N'J'NNH,
                                                                              H    I
                              2
       H         I     HH             H               H          I  H              HI
         NN        NXN           MNN               'N  NN                       N   N
                    N''- N2 N     N                        NWU'' %N    N"          N
       H             H HH           I   H               HI    H     IH     I      I I
              H    H              H         -235-

     N       N                 N      N                     N      N            N        N
"N      N       NH2          N    N      NH2            N       N    NH2      N      N       NH2
   H    H                    H    H                     H       H             H      H
          N     N                   N    N                       N   N                N      N
     N       N    NH2           N     N     NH2             N      N    NH2           ilNN      NH 2
      I      H                        H                      I     H              I      H
     N       N                 N      N                     N      N            N        N
   N    N       NH2          N     N     NH 2                    N   NHHN
                                                                        2
   H    I                    H    I                      H     I              H     I
         N      N                  N     N                       N   N                N      N
     N       N    N            N      N),N                  N11 N       N       Nl       N      N
     H       H    H            H      H    H                H      H    H       H        H      H
     N       N                 N      N                     N      N            N        N
   N     N      NH2          N     N     NH2             N       N   NH2      N      N       NH2
   |      |.                 |      I                     I      I            I      I
          N     N                   N    N                       N   N                N      N
     N       N N                N)NN N                      N NN ),             N        N      N
      I      H H                I     H     H                I     H    H         |      H      H
             N
     N                         N      N                     N      N          N      N      N
   N  IlN       N            N IlN       N               N ilN       N        N      N       N
   H      I     H            H      I    H               H       I   H        H       I      H
         N      N                  N     N                       N   N                N      N
     N       N),N       -''N          N    N                NI     N    N       N        N     N
     H       H                 H      H                     H      H    I       H        H
     N       N                 N      N                     N      N            N        N
   N    N
          I
                N
                H
                             N lNN
                                I
                                         N
                                         H
                                                      Nil
                                                               I
                                                                     N
                                                                     H
                                                                              N A NI         N
                                                                                             H
         N      N                  N     N                       N   N                N      N
     N       N    N            N      N            N'N      N      N !NN        N        N      N
             H        I               H         I                  H        I       H
     N       N                 N      N                     N      N            NN
   N  IlN !     N            N ilN !     N               N ilN       N        Ni1 N),N
         N      N                  N     N                       N   N                N      N
     N       N    N            N      N LN                  N      N    N       N        N),N
      I       I    I            I      |                     I     |    I        |        |      1
                                                  - 236 -

                                                                                              N         N     H
                                      NN               NH2
  N N                    2
           N       NH2 -           N      N    NH   2          N      N      NH   2          N     N      NH   2
    H     H            2           H      H                    H      H                      H     H
            N      N                       N   N                      N      N                      N     N
       N        N     NH              N      N     NH             NNNH                          N      N     NH 2
                                       H     H      H              H H              2            H     H
       I        H      H
                                                                                                N      N
                                                       N          NN
                                       N
            NN NH
C   N N N              2           N      N     NH 2            N     N      NH2             N      N     NH 2
    HI      1              UI1     H       I                    HI              I            H I
            N N N                          N              N            NN                               N
       NNN                             N     N N                   NNN                           N      N     N
       H        H      H               |     H     H               H       H    H                H      H     H
                                                       N           N      NN
            N), N                      N
a   NAlN N        NH         -     N       N    NH2             N     N      NH 2            N      N     NH 2
     I    I                ul       I    I                      I      I                I     I      I
                                                                                                     N     N
                                                                       NN
                                           N    N
       NNN  N      N                   N     N     N               N       N    N                N      N     N
        I       H      H            I        H     H               I H          H               H       H     H
        N       N                      N     N                     N       N                     N      N
    N       N      N                       NA                   N     NN                -     N      N     N
    H              H               H       I    H               H            H                H      |    H
             N     N                       N    N                      N      N                      N     N
        N       N      N               N      N     N              NN                                   N     N
       H        H                        HH         |              H     H                           HH
        N      N               N       N"N                         N       N                     N      N
     N      N      N                N      N    N               N N        N                  N      N     N
             H
             I|                     H                   I       H                 I           H    I       H
                                                                                                        N
                                                                       N     N
    &NA NNA1N'
        I
                   N
                 HII
                               --      NN),N
                                              HI
                                                        Ka,
                                                    N'AKI
                                                           N
                                                                    I
                                                                      A
                                                                          -HI
                                                                                NL.,
                                                                                         N       I
                                                                                                     ilN
                                                                                                        HI
        N      N      N               N       N     N              N       N    N                N     N     N
         HI         I               HI                          H       II        |           H      I
                                              NNN                      N N            0              N-N
    CNN           N              N         N     N,W               N       NlN W           -     NAlN          N
                                                          -237-

ol                 0                0)              0)                0                0                 0,1
   HN      N--          Ny__           HNy_-           _Ny        ,      HN,,,              N,,,,             Ny
      HNYN               HNYN             HNYN              HNYN           HNYN              HN-N               ,y
           NH,                NH,            HNN              HNN                                  N
   oi                06            0               0                031              0                 0
             H      T          NHN          HN              HN                                               HN
              HN              HN             HN \HN                    ~     -N                 -N
      H N N               N \-_N      HN \f<Nr        -N\<               HN~<            -N               .N      fN
        HNH                              NHN             HN                                               HN
                                           yN                yHN             y    HN           y    'N        -N
            'yN            HNN
         HN                H2N           HN                HN                      -N-NN
                                                                       0                                   0l
                    0
                                   0\OX                                 '1j0
     HN       YN.        HN - N<        HNf_        N         Y-Ny,       -N -N>            _-N N              HN _Nr_
         HN yNHN             yN             NyN              HNYN            HNfN            HNyN              _N     yN
              NH2          H2N             H2N                  NH2           H2N              H2N
      0      ~                    (P                   0
0                     \0                             <O0I
    HN    7  Y-N,,      HN   -N        HN \-_N            'I                N, .   N <_N -N         -N         -N \f N
        HN     -N        HN                       HN                -N        HN                       <N          -N
                y            f- N             N   HN            yN        y        N               y%    N
                   N-.N\                  -N\                                  -N                 -N\
                                                              -238-

   HO               HO                HO                HO              HO                HO               HO
HO              HO                 HO               HO               HO               HO               HO
    HN                                              N    NI             HNN                NI                NI
      HN    ,,          rN     ,,          rN    N         ,,     N         HNyN             HNyN                NyN
         NH2                 NH2              HNN              HNN                                NN,NN           -N
  HO             HO               HO              HO               HO               HO               HO
         HN              .- N            HN               -N     N    NHHN      -N         -N      N        -N    -N
          H      N          HNHN                  N              NN       HN       N         HN      N               N
           H2N               H2N             HN               HN              -N\             .- N              -N
                                                    HOH              HO   OH         HO    OH           HO   OH
   HO   OH        Ho    OH        HOH
      HN    N        .- NN            HN     N           N     N        HN      N        -      N          -N      N
       HN      N        HN     N       HNIrNN  N         HN>HN            HNyN
                                                                            NyN            HN \rN              NIf N
        H2N               H2N            HN                HN             .- N              -N                .N
                                                                          OH           HO               HO
                       OH          H
                                                     H                         OH    HO               HO
 HO               /         OH    HO
 HO                                                  HOIIY
      HNyN-<           HN \N            HN> N>NH2 -YN            N        -N       N         N    N          HN     N
        HNYN            HNN               HN                  HN rN          HN              HN                -N    N
            NH2           H2N              H2N                   NH2          H2N             H2N              -N
                                  HO                                                    HO               HO
                     OH           HO                                        OH         H                 H
HO-                       OH     HO   \_   IllO       H                                 oH
           HO                                        Ho      N I
     HNN             HNN               HNN                   NO N          .. N     -N      -N                -NN
       HN .N           HN
                            Y N
                                         HN
                                            y N
                                                N             HN
                                                              HNy-N            HHNN      ~         NN           -N y
          N                -N            -N                       N              -N             -N               -N
                                                              -239-

   N?          HN?\          H  N?         H N_           H               N_      HN?         N        N
H
  HNYNy            AYNyl-.<               HNN      NYNy,    HNyNy.               NYN..               7<
   HNYN        NN               HNYN            HNYN          HN.-N            HN-rN            'I      rN
       NH,             NH,         HNII           HNK                            II,                'I.N,,
  HN    Y-N y"   _IyN          HN   N,,,<    'N    -N,,,     HN -N,,,        'N    -N,,,       'N        Y-NY
    HN-y;N          HNYN          HN.-N          HNy;N         HNYN             HN yN             "NyN
        NH,             NH,         HN,            HNK                            I I                  . N
                   ~N    N,)     HNN,,NY                  HNH~y                           N-N< -~
   HN .~N<
      HN.-N           HN yN        HNYN           HN yN          HN.-N           HNYN                  NN
  H       NH2     H      NH2   H     HNII     H      HNII    H       ',N,     H                 H        ,N,
  NNN                                                            N            N                 N
    HN y N          HN   -N      HNY.N          HN    -N       HN      yN       HNY.N             'IN yN
        NH2             NH2         HN,,           HN,,           _N-             ,N,
   HN -rN          HNYN         HN rN           HNrN          HN-,,N           HN.-N             ,N,
       NH2             NH,         HNII           HNII          'N,,               N"                  N
 HN7NY_         _yNy-           HNyNY        _NyN..<       HNYN..<        'IN   Y-N.         "NyN.<
  HNYN            H N -rN      HN-,,N         HN-,,N         HNYN             H   N-N IyN
      NH2             NH2         HN,            HN,           INNN
                                                  -240-

H  N _          H    N            H   N            H    Nx          H   N _         H  N _             H
  HNYN.<r         ,N     N,,        HNYN,.,, AN,,N,, HNyN,,                           ~NN.           N      N
    HNYN             HNYN             HNYN              HNYN             HNYN            HNYN               NYN
        NH,              NH,               HN,,            HN,             ANN.            ANN.               ,N
 0_~             0
                                                                                                           Y0 Y
    HN   -N          HN   -N           HN    -N         HN    -N         HN    -N        HN     -N         "N     N
                          S                      S                                                     ,HN-N         N
                                              HNH              HNHN-
      HN-NH             HN-H
      NH        NT,   ,                HN N.T-_Y_                HN        yNN._y~r                              ,y    T
                              Y-~~Y                                                                               Y--r
   HNYN<             HNYN<            HNYN<             HNYN~            HNYN<           HNYN<           HNN
     HN   -N          HNY.N            HNY.N             HN    -N         HN    -N        HN     - N        HN    -N
         NH2              NH2            ..  N,               NH2             NH,            I,                  NH,
   H                H
                                                                                                    0       0
                        N                               0
    N       N
         N..<       HKN>N,,,,        HNYN,,,,           ,NYN,,,          HKNN,<,         HN      N
   AN
     HNYN             HNYN              HNYN             HN.-N              HN yN          HNYN              HNYN
         NH,             IN,-                NH,              NH2             IN,                NH,              NH,
      00                            0                 0                  s
   HN     N,        HNN.-            ,NNT              HNN,               HN    NT,         N     N        HN     N
     Y                                           YY                                                     Y           Y    y
        NS               NH2     S          NH 2   S      AN.          S       NH 2    S         NH,     S      N
              HN Y- NT,,      'I     -N,          HN NYN>,,           HN Y-NT,'I            -N,         HNyN__
                HN yN              HN yN             HN-,N               HN -rN          HN yN            Hy
                                                            NH    H        NNH 2                   NH2       IN,
                                                           -241-

 HN\                        HN\-          HNN\            HN                       T,     N
                    Y_~ HNyN.<-,         _NyN<         HTN^T,,             Ny NT
 HYN-~
  HNN -           N        HN   -N        HN    -N       HN -N            HNY -N           NY
     NH,            NH,       HN.,           HN,                           'IN              'I,
 HN N-y-        _NYN_>_,   HNyNT_-       _NyNT_         HN YN,~ y ,       NY-N-         _y          T
   HNYNHNYN                          NN    HNYN            HN.-N           HN-N           'I        N
       NH,            NH,      HN,,           HNN-           'IN             'IN'-IN
   HNYN           HNYN       HNYN          HNYN            HNYN            HN yN                  N
       NH,            NH,      HN,,           HN,,           'IN              -I,,'N
     H              H          H              H                H                H               H
     N              N          N              N                N                N               N
HN   YN,,,<   'IN   YN.<  HNyN>Y-       _NNY           HN      YN,,,<  'I  NT,        ,      -NT,
  HNYN           HNYN       HN-N          HN yN          HN.-N            HNyN           INYN
     NH2            NH 2      HN.,           HNI                           'I,              -IN
     0              0          0              0                0                0               0
      /              /        1/l              /               /                /               /
HNYN.,<       ANN.<       HNyN_<_       _NyN-,<        HNyNy,,        ~N>      N,,<    ~N>     N,,,
  HN   yN        HN   -N    HN  yN        HN    -N       HN     -N        HN     yN      ,y
     NH     2       NH2       HN,,           HN,            IN,            -I"IN,
   ro/             1/         1/           PSI              1/              1/            p1/
  HNyNHNYN                          NN    HNYN           HNYN             HNyN
     NH 2           NH 2      HNII           HNN           'I,             'I,
                                              -  242 -

 HN   N..<           NyN>,          HNyN,<           N      N>N r     HN                N       N          N   N
   HN-N               HN-N            HN-N             HN-N              HN    N     N             N         N-N
      NH 2                NH2           HN               HN-                 N                 N               N
 HNYN.              AN..N<           HN.N.           ~  AN>N<          HN    N           N      N           NN
    HNYN               HNYN            HNYN            HNYN              HNYN              HNyN               NyN
       NH2                 NH2          HN               HN                ANl                  N               N,
 HN   N,<           ,NyN,,r         HNYNr            N      NYNr      HN    N..<         N      N-,-      _NyN<
    HNYN               HN    N         HNYN            HN      N         HNYN             HNYN               NYN
      NH 2                 NH 2         HN,              HN                 N                   N              N
      H                    H              H                  H               H                  H             H
 HN   N.<          ,NyN,,r          HN    N        HN       N                          HN       N         HN   N
                                  N              N                                              N
   HNYN               HN     N        HNYN             HNYN              HNyN             HNN               HN   N
      NH 2                NH 2          HN,                 NH2             NH 2             . N               NH 2
     H                  H
  N        N ,,.     HNyN..<       HN    N ,.<      N     N _.<      HN     N         HN       N           N   N
   HNYN               HNYN            HNYN            HNYN              HNYN             HNyN               HNyN
      NH2                 N              NH 2             NH 2              N                  NH 2            NH2
    Y                    yy                                 y             Y                Y                 Y
HNYN              HNN                 NN           HNN                 NYN             HN N              HN N
  HN   N,             ,NrN                                         HNN          HN-N       HNN       HNN     HN N
            NH    S     1 NH        2  S NH2     S                   S      NH2       s        NH2       S     N
                             Y-    Y-    -                 N,,           Y                     N         HY
       H N       NN         HN     N       HN    N.<            HN>2 N            N    2N.          HN    N
           HN      N           HN   N         HN  -N              HNN                 HNN              HNN
                 NH2              NH2          ANH                    NH 2              NH 2            ANN
                                                          -  243  -

HN/             HN#               HN/              HN/               HN/             HN/            HN/
 HN    N,,,       H        ,T,              N             NN H     ~N--                                 Ny
     HNN           NN                HY             HyN                HNyN             HNyN            ,Ny
     NH2      -?      NH2        -HN             -     HN       -        0?        ,                    N           _
          HN      N,,          N    N,       HN     N-_           N        _           _NN
            HNYN                HNYN            HN   -N            HNY               HN'N          HNMN               ,NY
            -     NH 2              N H,    ?      H K       S?       H N ,,   S?        A   ,  -         N       ?
                      2
     HNyN..<-           %Ny              HK        NYN              .<ylT-          HNyNy-_NyN_,< _NyN_,_
                            NNH           HNyN         H    HYN          H    H~NH .            NyNHNy
           HHy H
           H2            N        2     N\HNN          N          HNN,        NNN                N,,                  N
  HNyNl..         _NyN-Y<            HNyNy-         _NyNY               HNYA<_ _KNN<-                   _&Ny
    HNy.N           HN y N             HN,rN           HN y -N                           HN    - N        IN
                N2N2                     HN,,             HNN,               ,NN           "N,-
           H~yNy_              _NyN.<r         HNyNy-             _NyNy_           HKNN-          _NyNY_            _NyN-Y<
               HNyN              HNYN             HN -fN            HNNN              HNYN          HN yN              'IN yN
                            NH         H             N,      S         HNN     S         NS                    S\,        N
       HNyN            _y-          N         N__         _Ny__              HNy__          _Ny-_            ,Ny,
         HNN          HNYN                    NN             HNYN              HNyN            HNyN               Ny
             NH2                NH,            HNN,               HN,                             I N,,      ~        N
                                                              -   244 -

HN/                HN /                  HN /                HN/                    HN /             HN /                  HN /
HN     N-_         _N )N__               HN ",-NT,           IN       N__           HN ,N-Y          _N ,N-               _N ,N,
   HN   -N            HN     -N             HN       N          HN      -N             HN    -N           HN    -N             N f-N
       NH 2    -           NH 2      -         HNN                  HNN        -            N                 N                   N
            0/                    0/                    0/                       /               0/                  0/                0/
           HN      N              N      N             HN    N               N       N          HN      N            N     N           N     N
              HNAN                 HN-N                   HN-N                HN.-N                HN-N                HN     N           NfN
                   NH 2       --         NH 2      -        HN                     HNN                I N                  N                 N
      HN    NT,           IN     -NT,          HN -NT,             'N        N,,,         HNY-NT              N -NT,           'N Y-N,,
        HN -N                HN -N                HN -N                HN -N                 HN     N           HN      N            N    N
    H       NH 2        H          NH2       H         HNN        H         HN_         H         N         H        N                 N
  HN                     N                   N                    N                        N              HN       NNH               NT,
    HN -N                HN -N                HN -N               HN        N            HN      N           HN       N         HN -N
         NH2 H               NH 2 H             .N       H              NH 2                  NH 2                N,                 NH 2
           HN       N              N      N            HN     N              N       N          HN      N             HN     N            N    N
              HN -N                 HN       N            HN     N            HN        N          HN -N                 HN     N          HN    N
         0          NH 2       0          NH 2       0        N           O          NH 2      S      -N,          S         NH 2      S       NH 2
       HN      NT,         HN        N,            NYNT,,             HN       N            HN      N             NyN               HN      N
          HN     -N             HN     -N             HN     N            HN        N          HN -N               HN       N          HN    -N
               N                     NH2     S             NH2 S \N                                 NH2       S           NH2    s
                    HN       N              N      N          HN      N                 HN N                  N      N        H N
                       HN        N           HN      -N          HN      -N               HN    -N            HN      -N          HN     N
                            NH 2                  NH 2                N                       NH 2                 NH 2               N
                                                                            -245-

   HN     NY           N     N           NY                                                                N          Y     N      N
    HyN>               NyN>              HNNr,<               HN  y-    NY       HN        yNY         _NY~~              AyN
     HN -N               HN   yN            HN -N                HN    -N           HN     -N            HN y                 AINYN
         NH,                 NH,              HNN                  H,_- H-             " N"                 'N,                 'N,
                      N'                                    N                N-  NH                 ClIi:: N
                                                               HNN      NJI,                                                   H
                 HN      yN>                                      N                     NY                         HN   N              N
                        YN y-N    NyNH             yNyI            HNYN                        HN yN         N Y                      IN
      HNy            N   NH2         ~       CI    HN yN              HN,_         ~        ClHNyN                      NCI
           NH,
                                                                      NH                                     NN"
                                                 CI           NI            NT clW      NH        Cl
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                             N                  JL
CI      C,    N'            H N     NH       Cl           Il                                        N                         NH    Nl I H
                                HNy    T ,-                         N   y   N        N H-       -  -                           HY
     N                        N                                  HNc
              y              H,               CyHN                     HN> ,                  C<                    ~N   N
                2~~y     c        N                   H     ,  _                  N                                   T          NT N
             HN-N HN-NYNy                                             N'                       HNY,                   HNI      N      NH~
                                        CIN           HN                                 l
            NH2p                    NHACN
                    CI       N'N                                  ci      NYNH                                    N      NY-K
   HN-     N      y       N    N     N     H        y   -          H      N N        H         H       -Nr          H
    cil"N                               N                                  'N'N HJN                                        I     H
                                        N       HNN                  y                 N       HNN
       HNy        T, HN     - N                   >HN  N            HNYN                        HN       N      '    HN   -N
      HN    -N            NH2                Ci   HN      N            HN,,                        HN   ' NN N                          cl
         Y                                                                                             Yl
           NH,                         CI                                             ciT,
                       CI     N"N                             N                                                                  N    N

13.     A composition comprising a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound of structural
Formula IV,
                                                      R 12    R13
                                                      /      \    14
                                                        N       N
                                                          R3      R4
                                                          IV
        wherein:
        wherein R 3, R 4, R 5, R6 , R 7, R 8 and R 9 are independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl,
propyl or isopropyl;
        and wherein R1 and R 2, and are independently selected from:
        H; optionally substituted alkyl; cycloalkyl; alkylcycloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl;
alkyiheterocycloalkyl; optionally substituted alkenyl; optionally substituted alkynyl;
        optionally substituted aryl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
heteroaryl; optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
        or R 1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached
wherein the composition is adapted to reduce the average bioavailability of the compound,
release a therapeutically effective amount of the compound to one or more regions of the
intestine of a subject, or a combination thereof.
14.     The composition according to claim 13, wherein:
        R 2, R 3, R 4, R 5, R 6, R 7, R 8 and R 9 are independently selected from H or methyl; and
        R1 is selected from:
        H,
        C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, O-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH
alkyl,
        C 1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl,
                                                        -247-

       C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted with
oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH
alkyl,
       C3 to C 7 cycloalkyl, C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or
two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
       C4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl,
       C3 to C1I alkylheterocycloalkyl, where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N and wherein N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen
atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea,
       phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl,
       alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl, alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl,
       pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl,
pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally substituted.
                                               -248-

15.       The composition according to claim 13, wherein the compound of Formula IV is selected
from the following structures:
                            NN                           N        NN                  NN                  N
   H2 N    H    NH2    -N       N    NH2 -N) \H N'            H2N          NH2    -N      N   NH2     -N       N    N
                          \    H                               HH                    \H                  \H
        N      N             N      N          N       N           NN                                       N      N
     HNN         NH2 H     N     N    NH2 H     N'1NN           HN     N    NH2      N- N      NH2 H -        N NW
       I H                  I                       I        H         H                   H                    I
       C4 H9                C4H9              C4 H9               C4 HS               C4 H                 C4H9
         N      N              N     N          N       N           N      NN                 NN                    N
      HN     N    NH2     -N      N    NH2     N        N        HN'N        NH2            N    NH2    ---      N    N
             H        H                              H                  H                   H                    H
                                                                                                                H     N
                                                                                            H     N
                                                                    I      N
                                                   - HN
                                  H N
            H     N.
                                                           NH            N   N---   H2      N   N      H2N           NH
                 N      H2N         N -     H2N       N
                               N     N           N       N            N     N           N      N            N      N
         N     N
         NNN                                N                        NN                N      N             N      N
         HN N N2        --                    N N                     N                    N    NH2           N    N
                                                    N      HNN-.-- N
                                                          NH             HN NN                                 N    NH
                NNNH N2
                         2NX  N N N N- H2 HN                                       H2     N    N-    2H  N
                                                                                     2                     y
                     Y             -(           y-(                 y(                 y
        N     N               N      N          N                                       NN                  NN
                                                              -249-

                              N         N         N         N          N             NN                  N     N
     HN    N   NH2    -NXN          NH2     HN         N       HN   N      NH2    -N     N H2      H        N    N"
                 H            HN                        I
         Cl       OH        CI         OH       CI          OH     CI          OH      C          OH      CI           OH
                   OH            -       OH           ....    OH        -       OH          -      OH           ....    OH
     N    N   N-     H2N     N     N-     H2yN      NH'   y                N-    H2N     N     N     H2NNN N     NH
       N     N            N      N             N     N            N     N             N      N           N     N
              HO      OH            HO       OH           HO     OH         HO     OH          HO    OH          HO      OH
                        HH         H                   H                             HH      H                 H      NH
        N    N    N-      H2N      N    N--    H2NyN         NH     N     N    N--   H2N     N    N-    H2     N
           N     N             N      N            N        N         N       N           N      N           N      N
              N                    H2N                 NH                 N                  N                  N
           N  N             N       KN           N>N                N       N         N      N            N       N
                 0\\                     00                     O             O                  0-O                 0-O
                                                                  N       N-          N      N     N           N
                  HH                                   H            lH                        H                H
                        H          N             H           NH     N     N    N      H2N       N-      H2N   N       NH
           N     N             N      N             N       N         N       N           N      N           N       N
 16.     A composition comprising metformin or salt thereof wherein the composition is adapted
to reduce the average bioavailability of the compound, release a therapeutically effective amount
of the compound to one or more regions of the intestine of a subject, or a combination thereof.
 17.     The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 wherein the
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound comprises an asymmetric center or centers and
forms a composition of a racemic mixture, a diastereoisomeric mixture, a single enantiomer, an
enantiomeric diastereomer, a meso compound, a pure -epimer, or a mixture of epimers thereof,
etc.
                                                                -.250-

 18.     The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, wherein the
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound comprises one or more double bonds, wherein the
compound is a cis/trans, E/Z mixture or an E or Z geometric isomer thereof.
 19.     The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, wherein the
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is a salt selected from hydrochloride, hydrobromide,
acetate, propionate, butyrate, sulfate, hydrogen sulfate, sulfite, carbonate, hydrogen carbonate,
phosphate, phosphinate, oxalate, hemi-oxalate, malonate, hemi-malonate, fumarate, hemi
fumarate, maleate, hemi-maleate, citrate, hemi-citrate, tartrate, hemi-tartrate, aspartate and
glutamate.
20.      The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, wherein the
biguanide or related heterocyclic compound is formulated as a composition comprising the
components A, B, and C, wherein:
     A is the protonated form of a natural or unnatural amino acid;
     B is the dianion of an acid; and
     C is the protonated form of any the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound.
21.      The composition according to claim 20, wherein
     A is the protonated form of a natural amino acid selected from alanine, aspartic acid,
     asparagine, arginine, glycine, glutamine, glutamic acid lysine, phenylalanine, tyrosine,
     serine, threonine, tryptophan, leucine, isoleucine, histidine, methionine, praline, cysteine,
     and cystine; and
     B is the dianion of an acid selected from oxalic, malonic, citric, maleic, fumaric, tartaric,
     aspartic, and glutamic acid.
     C is the protonated form of the biguanide or related heterocyclic compound.
23.      The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, further
comprising a DPP-IV inhibitor.
24.      The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, further
comprising an anti-obesity or anti-diabetes agent.
25.      A composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, the composition
further comprising a chemosensory receptor ligand that is selected from the group consisting of
a sweet receptor ligand, an umami receptor ligand, a fat receptor ligand, a sour receptor ligand
and a bile acid receptor ligand.
26.      A method of inducing feelings of happiness, well-being or contentment in subjects
comprising administering at a composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16.
                                                -251-

 27.     A method of treating a condition selected from metabolic syndrome, diabetes type I,
 diabetes type II, obesity, binge eating, undesired food cravings, food addiction, a desire to
 reduce food intake or to lose weight or maintain weight loss, desire to maintain healthy weight,
 desire to maintain normal blood glucose metabolism, anorexia, pre-diabetes, glucose
 intolerance, gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), impaired fasting glycemia (IFG), post-prandial
 hyperglycemia, accelerated gastric emptying, dumping syndrome, delayed gastric emptying,
 dyslipidemia, post-prandial dyslipidemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, post-prandial
 hypertriglyceridemia, insulin resistance, bone loss disorders, osteopenia, osteoporosis, muscle
 wasting disease, muscle degenerative disorders, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), non
 alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFL), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), immune disorders
 of the gut, celiac disease, bowel irregularity, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), inflammatory
 bowel disease (IBD), ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, short bowel syndrome, peripheral
 neuropathy and diabetic neuropathy in a subject comprising administering at a composition
 according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16.
 28.     A method of treating a condition selected from sadness, stress, grief, anxiety, anxiety
 disorder (e.g., generalized anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, post
 traumatic stress disorder or social anxiety disorder or a mood disorder (e.g., depression, bipolar
 disorder, dysthymic disorder and cyclothymic disorder) comprising administering at a
 composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16.
 29.     A method according to claim 27, wherein the condition is diabetes.
 30.     A method according to claim 27, wherein the condition is obesity.
31.      A method according to claim 27, wherein the subject has undergone bariatric surgery.
32.      A method according to claim 27, further comprising administration of a drug for diabetes
or obesity.
33.      A method of treating a defect in energy homeostasis in a subject comprising
administering at a composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16.
34.      A method of treating overweight in a subject by administering a composition according
to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject.
35.      A method of treating obesity in a subject by administering a composition according to
any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject.
36.      A method of reducing food intake in a subject by administering a composition according
to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject.
37.      A method of treating type II diabetes in a subject by administering a composition
according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject.
                                                 -252-

38.      A method of maintaining healthy body weight in a subject by administering a
composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject.
39.      A method of treating pre-diabetes in a subject by administering a composition according
to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject.
40.      A method of increasing circulating GLP- I concentration in a subject by administering a
composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject..
41.      A method of increasing circulating PYY concentration in a subject by administering a
composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 to the subject.
42.      A pharmaceutical dosage form comprising:
                (a) a pH 6.5 enterically coated immediate release component comprising
                metformin hydrochloride and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; and
                b) a pH 6.5 enterically coated extended release component comprising metformin
                hydrochloride and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; and
wherein the combined amount of metformin from both components is less than 400 mg and
wherein the metformin has sub-therapeutic plasma AUC and sub-therapeutic plasma Cmax.
43.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the proportion of
metformin hydrochloride in the immediate release component to the metformin hydrochloride in
the extended release component is about 20/80, 30/70, 35/65, 40/60, 45/55 or 50/50.
44.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the dosage form exhibits a
dissolution release profile of 80-100% amount of metformin hydrochloride after 60 minutes
after oral administration.
45.     A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the sub-therapeutic
plasma AUC and sub-therapeutic plasma Cmax resulting from administration of the dosage form
is 50% or less than the plasma AUC and Cmax resulting from administration of a single dose of
GLUMETZA 500 mg.
46.     A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the dosage form further
comprises a DPP-IV inhibitor in (a), (b) or both.
47.     A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the dosage form further
comprises an antidiabetic or antiobesity agent.
48.     A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the dosage form further
comprises (c) an immediate release component comprising metformin hydrochloride.
49.     A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 48, wherein the (c) immediate release
component has a pH 5.0 enteric coating.
50.     A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 48, wherein the combined amount of
metformin from components (a)-(c) is less than 600 mg.
                                               -253-

51.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the dosage form is a bi
layer tablet.
52.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 42, wherein the dosage form is a
capsule with the two components as encapsulated mini-tablets.
53.      A pharmaceutical dosage form comprising
                (a) a pH 6.5 enterically coated immediate release component comprising
                metformin hydrochloride and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; and
                b) a pH 6.5 enterically coated extended release component comprising metformin
                hydrochloride and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; and
wherein the metformin hydrochloride has reduced average bioavailability.
54.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 53, wherein the average systemic
bioavailability is less than the average systemic bioavailability of an immediate release
metformin formulation having an equivalent amount of metformin.
55.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 53, wherein the average bioavailability
is less than 15%.
56.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 53, wherein the proportion of
metformin hydrochloride in the immediate release component to the metformin hydrochloride in
the extended release component is about 20/80, 30/70, 35/65, 40/60, 45/55 or 50/50.
57.    - A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 53, wherein the dosage form further
comprises a DPP-IV inhibitor in (a), (b) or both.
58.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 53, wherein the dosage form further
comprises (c) an immediate release component comprising metformin hydrochloride.
60.      A pharmaceutical dosage form according to claim 58, wherein the combined amount of
metformin hydrochloride is less than 400 mg.
61.      The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, wherein said
composition is adapted to minimize the circulating plasma concentration is below about 5 pg/mL,
4 [ig/mL, 3 [g/mL, 2 [ig/mL, 1 [ig/mL, 0.5 pg/mL or 0.25 pg/mL.
                                               -254-

                                             255
62.      The composition according to any one of claims 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16, wherein said
composition is adapted to provide 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, or 20% less relative bioavailability
of the compound compared to an immediate release composition having the same amount of
the compound.
                                 Elcelyx Therapeutics, Inc.
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON
(14337389 1):GGG

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
