   I IV jI
         J Iz
                                          ABSTRACT
 A method of calibrating a sensor, the method comprising: defining an electrochemical
 impedance spectroscopy (EIS)-based sensor status vector (V) for each one of a plurality of
 sensor current (Isig)-blood glucose (BG) pairs; monitoring the status vectors for the plurality
 of Isig-BG pairs over time; detecting when there is a difference between a first status vector
for a first Isig-BG pair and a subsequent status vector for a subsequent Isig-BG pair, said first
Isig-BG pair having assigned thereto a first offset value; and if a magnitude of said difference
is larger than a predetermined threshold, assigning a dynamic offset value for said subsequent
Isig-BG pair that is different from said first offset value so as to maintain a substantially
linear relationship between said subsequent Isig and said subsequent BG.

  I VUI  1
        DI Y
 APPLICATION OF ELECTROCHEMICAL IMPEDANCE SPECTROSCOPY IN SENSOR
                     SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND RELATED METHODS
RELATED APPLICATION DATA
 [0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/755,811, filed January 23, 2013, and of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/754,475, filed January 18, 2013, and of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/754,479, filed January 18, 2013, and of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/754,483, filed January 18, 2013, and of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/754,485, filed January 18, 2013, and of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/657,517, filed June 8, 2012, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.
The present specification is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, the contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference. The reader is directed to that earlier specification for
aspects disclosed herein, but not claimed.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Embodiments of this invention are related generally to methods and systems of using
Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) in conjunction with continuous glucose
monitors and, more particularly, to the use of EIS in sensor diagnostics and fault detection,
sensor calibration, sensor-signal optimization via one or more fusion algorithms,
contaminant/interferent detection, and electrode-surface characterization, as well as to
Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) for implementing such use of EIS for both
single-electrode and multi-electrode (redundant) sensors.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Subjects and medical personnel wish to monitor readings of physiological conditions
within the subject's body. Illustratively, subjects wish to monitor blood glucose levels in a
subject's body on a continuing basis. Presently, a patient can measure his/her blood glucose
(BG) using a BG measurement device (i.e. glucose meter), such as a test strip meter, a
continuous glucose measurement system (or a continuous glucose monitor), or a hospital
hemacue. BG measurement devices use various methods to measure the BG level of a patient,
such as a sample of the patient's blood, a sensor in contact with a bodily fluid, an optical
sensor, an enzymatic sensor, or a fluorescent sensor. When the BG measurement device has
generated a BG measurement, the measurement is displayed on the BG measurement device.

                                                    2
[00041       Current continuous glucose measurement systems include subcutaneous (or short
term) sensors and implantable (or long-term) sensors. For each of the short-term sensors and
the long-term sensors, a patient has to wait a certain amount of time in order for the
continuous glucose sensor to stabilize and to provide accurate readings. In many continuous
glucose sensors, the subject must wait three hours for the continuous glucose sensor to
stabilize before any glucose measurements are utilized. This is an inconvenience for the
patient and in some cases may cause the patient not to utilize a continuous glucose
measurement system.
[00051       Further, when a glucose sensor is first inserted into a patient's skin or
subcutaneous layer, the glucose sensor does not operate in a stable state.            The electrical
readings from the sensor, which represent the glucose level of the patient, vary over a wide
range of readings. In the past, sensor stabilization used to take several hours. A technique
for sensor stabilization is detailed in U.S. Patent No. 6,809,653, ("the '653 patent"),
application serial No. 09/465,715, filed December 19, 1999, issued October 26, 2004, to
Mann et al., assigned to Medtronic Minimed, Inc., which is incorporated herein by reference.
In the '653 patent, the initialization process for sensor stabilization may be reduced to
approximately one hour. A high voltage (e.g., 1.0 - 1.2 volts) may be applied for 1 to 2
minutes to allow the sensor to stabilize and then a low voltage (e.g., between 0.5 - 0.6 volts)
may be applied for the remainder of the initialization process (e.g., 58 minutes or so). Thus,
even with this procedure, sensor stabilization still requires a large amount of time.
 [00061       It is also desirable to allow electrodes of the sensor to be sufficiently "wetted" or
hydrated before utilization of the electrodes of the sensor. If the electrodes of the sensor are
not sufficiently hydrated, the result may be inaccurate readings of the patient's physiological
 condition. A user of current blood glucose sensors is instructed to not power up the sensors
immediately.       If they are utilized too early, current blood glucose sensors do not operate in
 an optimal or efficient fashion. No automatic procedure or measuring technique is utilized to
 determine when to power on the sensor. This manual process is inconvenient and places too
 much responsibility on the patient, who may forget to apply or turn on the power source.
 [00071       Besides the stabilization and wetting problems during the initial stages of sensor
 life, there can be additional issues during the sensor's life. For instance, all sensors are pre
 set with a specified operating life. For example, in current short-term sensors on the market
 today, the sensors are typically good for 3 to 5 days. Although sensors may continue to
 function and deliver a signal after the pre-set operating life of the sensor, the sensor readings

                                                3
eventually become less consistent and thus less reliable after the pre-set operating life of the
sensor has passed. The exact sensor life of each individual sensor varies from sensor to
sensor, but all sensors have been approved for at least the pre-set operating life of the sensor.
Therefore, manufacturers have required the users of the sensors to replace the sensors after
the pre-set operating life has passed. Although the continuous glucose measurement system
can monitor the length of time since the sensor was inserted and indicate the end of the
operating life of a sensor to warn the user to replace the sensor, it does not have enough
safeguards to prevent the sensor from being used beyond the operating life. Even though the
characteristic monitors can simply stop functioning once the operating life of the sensor is
reached, a patient may bypass these safeguards by simply disconnecting and re-connecting
the same sensor. Thus, there is a loophole in the system where a user can keep the sensors
 active longer than recommended and thus compromise the accuracy of the blood glucose
values returned by the glucose monitor.
 [00081       Moreover, the sensor often absorbs polluting species, such as peptides and small
 protein molecules during the life of the sensor. Such polluting species can reduce the
 electrode surface area or diffusion pathway of analytes and/or reaction byproducts, thus
 reducing the sensor accuracy.     Determining when such pollutants are affecting the sensor
 signal and how to remedy such conditions is quite significant in sensor operation.
 [00091       The current state of the art in continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) is largely
 adjunctive, meaning that the readings provided by a CGM device (including, e.g., an
 implantable or subcutaneous sensor) cannot be used without a reference value in order to
 make a clinical decision. The reference value, in turn, must be obtained from a finger stick
 using, e.g., a BG meter. The reference value is needed because there is a limited amount of
 information that is available from the sensor/sensing component.         Specifically, the only
 pieces of information that are currently provided by the sensing component for processing are
 the raw sensor value (i.e., the sensor current or Isig) and the counter voltage. Therefore,
  during analysis, if it appears that the raw sensor signal is abnormal (e.g., if the signal is
  decreasing), the only way one can distinguish between a sensor failure and a physiological
  change within the user/patient (i.e., glucose level changing in the body) is by acquiring a
  reference glucose value via a finger stick. As is known, the reference finger stick is also used
  for calibrating the sensor.
  [0010]       The art has searched for ways to eliminate or, at the very least, minimize, the
  number of finger sticks that are necessary for calibration and for assessing sensor health.

                                                   4
However, given the number and level of complexity of the multitude of sensor failure modes,
no satisfactory solution has been found. At most, diagnostics have been developed that are
based on either direct assessment of the Isig, or on comparison of two Isigs. In either case,
because the Isig tracks the level of glucose in the body, by definition, it is not analyte
independent. As such, by itself, the Isig is not a reliable source of information for sensor
diagnostics, nor is it a reliable predictor for continued sensor performance.
[00111      Another limitation that has existed in the art thus far has been the lack of sensor
electronics that can not only run the sensor, but also perform real-time sensor and electrode
diagnostics, and do so for redundant electrodes, all while managing the sensor's power
supply. To be sure, the concept of electrode redundancy has been around for quite some
time.    However, up until now, there has been little to no success in using electrode
redundancy not only for obtaining more than one reading at a time, but also for assessing the
relative health of the redundant electrodes, the overall reliability of the sensor, and the
frequency of the need, if at all, for calibration reference values.
[0012]       In addition, even when redundant sensing electrodes have been used, the number
has typically been limited to two.        Again, this has been due partially to the absence of
advanced electronics that run, assess, and manage a multiplicity of independent working
electrodes (e.g., up to 5 or more) in real time. Another reason, however, has been the limited
view that redundant electrodes are used in order to obtain "independent" sensor signals and,
for that purpose, two redundant electrodes are sufficient. As noted, while this is one function
of utilizing redundant electrodes, it is not the only one.
[0013]       There have also been attempts in the art to detect the presence of interferents in
the sensor's environment, and to assess the effect(s) of such interferents on the glucose
sensor. However, heretofore, no glucose-independent means for performing such detection
and assessment have been found.
[0014]       Various techniques for determining the state of a sensor are disclosed in document
WO 2009/026236 in the name of Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. In particular, there is proposed in
this document to use an EIS technique in both the hydration and stabilization routines as a
way to determine when additional initializations should be applied to help in the hydration
and stabilization process of the sensor. An EIS technique is also used to give information on
the ageing of a sensor. Specifically, under different frequencies, the amplitude and phase
angle of the sensor impedance varies. This is plotted as a "Nyquist" plot by plotting the real
part (X axis) against the imaginary part (Y axis) of the impedance under different

                                                5
frequencies. Typically, the Nyquist plot shows a semi-circle joined by a straight line and the
point of inflection where they join gives an approximation of the sum of the polarization and
solution resistances (Rp     + Rs). This gives the information concerning ageing status,
stabilization, and hydration of the sensor. EIS is also disclosed as able to detect sensor failure
by detecting when the sensor's impedance drops below a low impedance threshold. Periodic
EIS procedures are envisaged for checking whether a sensor has become polluted.

   UU 35W
                                                   6
[0014A]       Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction
or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant,
and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                             SUMMARY
[0015]       In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for calibrating a sensor,
comprising: defining an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS)-based sensor status
vector (V) for each one of a plurality of sensor current (Isig)-blood glucose (BG) pairs;
monitoring the status vectors for the plurality of Isig-BG pairs over time; detecting when
there is a difference between a first status vector for a first Isig-BG pair and a subsequent
status vector for a subsequent Isig-BG pair, wherein a first offset value is assigned to the first
Isig-BG pair; and, if the magnitude of the difference is larger than a predetermined threshold,
assigning a dynamic offset value for the subsequent Isig-BG pair that is different from the
first offset value so as to maintain a substantially linear relationship between the subsequent
Isig and BG.
[0016]       In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method of calibrating a
sensor, comprising: performing an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure
for a working electrode of a sensor to obtain values of at least one impedance-based
parameter for the working electrode; performing a bound check on the values of the at least
one impedance-based parameter to determine whether the at least one impedance-based
parameter is in-bounds and, based on the bound check, calculating a reliability-index value
for the working electrode; and, based on the value of the reliability index, determining
whether calibration should be performed now, or whether it should be delayed until a later
time.
 [0017]      Disclosed herein is a method of performing real-time sensor diagnostics on a
subcutaneous or implanted sensor having at least one working electrode, comprising:
performing a first electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure to generate a first
set of impedance-related data for the at least one working electrode; after a predetermined
time interval, performing a second EIS procedure to generate a second set of impedance
related data for the at least one electrode; and, based on the first and second sets of
impedance-related data, determining whether the sensor is functioning normally, wherein
each of the first and second sets of impedance-related data includes data for at least one

  1001518992
                                                 7
impedance-related parameter, wherein the first and second EIS procedures are performed
within a frequency range at which the parameter is substantially glucose-independent.
 [00181      Also disclosed herein is a method of calculating a single, fused sensor glucose
value. The fused sensor glucose value is calculated based on glucose measurement signals
from a plurality of redundant sensing electrodes by performing respective electrochemical
impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedures for each of the plurality of redundant sensing
electrodes to obtain values of at least one impedance-based parameter for each the sensing
electrode; measuring the electrode current (Isig) for each of the plurality of redundant sensing
electrodes; independently calibrating each of the measured Isigs to obtain respective
calibrated sensor glucose values; performing a bound check and a noise check on the
measured Isig and the values of the at least one impedance-based parameter and assigning a
bound-check reliability index and a noise-check reliability index to each of the sensing
electrodes; performing signal-dip analysis based on one or more of the at least one
impedance-based parameter and assigning a dip reliability index to each of the sensing
electrodes; performing sensitivity-loss analysis based on one or more of the at least one
impedance-based parameter and assigning a sensitivity-loss index to each of the sensing
electrodes; for each of the plurality of electrodes, calculating a total reliability index based on
the electrode's bound-check reliability index, noise-check reliability index, dip reliability
index, and sensitivity-loss reliability index; for each of the plurality of electrodes, calculating
a weight based on the electrode's total reliability index; and calculating the fused sensor
glucose value based on the respective weights and calibrated sensor glucose values of each of
the plurality of redundant sensing electrodes.
[0019]       Also disclosed herein is a method for detecting an interferent in close proximity to
an electrode of a glucose sensor that is implanted or subcutaneously disposed in the body of a
patient.     An EIS procedure is periodically performed to obtain values of impedance
magnitude for the electrode, and values of measured current (Isig) for the electrode are
obtained. The Isig and the values of impedance magnitude for the electrode are monitored
over time. When a sudden spike in the monitored Isig is detected, a determination is made as
to whether, at about the time of Isig spike, there is also a large increase in the monitored
values of the impedance magnitude, and if there is, then it is determined that an interferent
exists in close proximity to the electrode.
[0020]       Also disclosed herein is a method for testing the surface area characteristics of an
electroplated electrode, wherein an EIS procedure is performed to obtain a value of an
impedance-related parameter for the electrode.         The obtained value is correlated to the

  1001518992
                                                8
electrode's electrochemical surface area and, based on the correlation, lower and upper
threshold values for the value of the impedance-related parameter are set. Lastly, a
determination is made as to whether the electrode is acceptable based on whether the value of
the impedance-related parameter falls within the lower and upper threshold values.
 [00211      Also disclosed herein is a method for real-time detection of low start-up for a
working electrode of a sensor by inserting the sensor into subcutaneous tissue; performing a
first electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure to generate a first set of
impedance-related data for the working electrode; and, based on the first set of impedance
related data, determining whether the working electrode is experiencing low start-up.
 [00221      Also disclosed herein is a method for real-time detection of a signal dip for a
working electrode of a sensor comprising: periodically performing an electrochemical
 impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure to obtain values of real impedance for the electrode;
monitoring the values of real impedance over time; and, based on the values of real
 impedance, determining whether a dip exists in the signal generated by the working
 electrode.
 [00231      Also disclosed herein is a method for real-time detection of sensitivity loss for a
 working electrode of a sensor by periodically performing an electrochemical impedance
 spectroscopy (EIS) procedure to generate multiple sets of impedance-related data for the
 working electrode; calculating values of one or more impedance-related parameters based on
 the multiple sets of impedance-related data; wherein each EIS procedure is performed within
 a frequency range at which the one or more impedance-related parameters is substantially
 glucose-independent; monitoring the values over time; and, based on the values, determining
 whether the working electrode is experiencing sensitivity loss.
 [0024]      Also disclosed herein is a sensor system including a subcutaneous or implantable
 sensor having a plurality of independent working electrodes, a counter electrode, and a
 reference electrode, and sensor electronics operably coupled to the sensor. The sensor
 electronics, in turn, include electronic circuitry configured to selectively perform an
 electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure for one or more of the plurality of
 independent working electrodes to generate impedance-related data for the one or more
 working electrodes; a programmable sequencer configured to provide a start stimulus and a

  1001518992
                                              8A
                                                                      interface configured to
stop stimulus for performing the EIS procedure; and a microcontroller
operably couple the sensor electronics to a microcontroller.

                                                   9
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00251      A detailed description of embodiments of the invention will be made with
reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein like numerals designate corresponding
parts in the figures. Figures 1-14C, 16A, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21A, and 21B duplicate figures also
contained in WO 2009/026236.         They are included here by way of background material to
help in the understanding of the inventions.
[0026]      FIG. I is a perspective view of a subcutaneous sensor insertion set and block
diagram of a sensor electronics device;
[0027]      FIG. 2A illustrates a substrate having two sides, a first side which contains an
electrode configuration and a second side which contains electronic circuitry;
[0028]      FIG. 2B illustrates a general block diagram of an electronic circuit for sensing an
output of a sensor;
[0029]      FIG. 3 illustrates a block diagram of a sensor electronics device and a sensor
including a plurality of electrodes;
[0030]      FIG. 4 illustrates an alternative arrangement including a sensor and a sensor
electronics device;
[0031]      FIG. 5 illustrates an electronic block diagram of sensor electrodes and a voltage
being applied to the sensor electrodes;
[0032]      FIG. 6A illustrates a method of applying pulses during a stabilization timeframe in
order to reduce the stabilization timeframe;
[0033]      FIG. 6B illustrates a method of stabilizing sensors;
[0034]      FIG. 6C illustrates utilization of feedback in stabilizing the sensors;
[0035]      FIG. 7 illustrates an effect of stabilizing a sensor;
[0036]      FIG. 8A illustrates a block diagram of a sensor electronics device and a sensor
including a voltage generation device;
[00371      FIG. 8B illustrates a voltage generation device to implement the FIG. 8A
arrangement;
[0038]      FIG. 8C illustrates a voltage generation device to generate two voltage values;

                                                 10
[00391       FIG. 8D illustrates a voltage generation device having three voltage generation
systems;
[0040]       FIG. 9A illustrates a sensor electronics device including a microcontroller for
generating voltage pulses;
[00411       FIG. 9B illustrates a sensor electronics device including an analyzation module;
[00421       FIG. 10 illustrates a block diagram of a sensor system including hydration
electronics;
[0043]       FIG. 11 illustrates an arrangement including a mechanical switch to assist in
determining a hydration time;
[0044]       FIG. 12 illustrates a method of detection of hydration;
[0045]       FIG. 13A illustrates a method of hydrating a sensor;
[0046]       FIG. 13B illustrates an additional method for verifying hydration of a sensor;
[0047]       FIGs. 14A, 14B, and 14C illustrate methods of combining hydrating of a sensor
with stabilizing a sensor;
 [0048]      FIG. 15A illustrates EIS-based analysis of system response to the application of a
periodic AC signal;
 [00491      FIG. 15B illustrates a known circuit model for electrochemical impedance
spectroscopy;
 [0050]      FIG. 16A illustrates an example of a Nyquist plot where, for a selected frequency
spectrum from 0.1Hz to 1000Mhz, AC voltages plus a DC voltage (DC bias) are applied to
the working electrode;
 [0051]      FIG. 16B shows another example of a Nyquist plot with a linear fit for the
 relatively-lower frequencies and the intercept approximating the value of real impedance at
 the relatively-higher frequencies;
 [0052]      FIGs. 16C and 16D show, respectively, infinite and finite glucose sensor response
 to a sinusoidal working potential;
 [0053]      FIG. 16E shows a Bode plot for magnitude;
 [0054]      FIG. 16F shows a Bode plot for phase;

                                                11
[00551      FIG. 17 illustrates the changing Nyquist plot of sensor impedance as the sensor
ages;
[00561      FIG. 18 illustrates methods of applying EIS technique in stabilizing and detecting
the age of the sensor;
[0057]      FIG. 19 illustrates a schedule for performing the EIS procedure;
[00581      FIG. 20 illustrates a method of detecting and repairing a sensor using EIS
procedures in conjunction with remedial action;
[0059]      FIGs. 21A and 21B illustrate examples of a sensor remedial action;
[0060]      FIG. 22 shows a Nyquist plot for a normally-functioning sensor where the Nyquist
slope gradually increases, and the intercept gradually decreases, as the sensor wear-time
progresses;
 [0061]     FIG. 23A shows raw current signal (Isig) from two redundant working electrodes,
and the electrodes' respective real impedances at 1kHz;
 [00621     FIG. 23B shows the Nyquist plot for the first working electrode (WE1) of FIG.
23A;
 [00631      FIG. 23C shows the Nyquist plot for the second working electrode (WE2) of FIG.
 23A;
 [00641      FIG. 24 illustrates examples of signal dip for two redundant working electrodes,
 and the electrodes' respective real impedances at 1kHz;
 [0065]      FIG. 25A illustrates substantial glucose independence of real impedance,
 imaginary impedance, and phase at relatively-higher frequencies for a normally-functioning
 glucose sensor;
 [00661      FIG. 25B shows illustrative examples of varying levels of glucose dependence of
 real impedance at the relatively-lower frequencies;
  [00671     FIG. 25C shows illustrative examples of varying levels of glucose dependence of
 phase at the relatively-lower frequencies;
  [00681     FIG. 26 shows the trending for 1kHz real impedance, 1kHz imaginary impedance,
 and relatively-higher frequency phase as a glucose sensor loses sensitivity as a result of
 oxygen deficiency at the sensor insertion site;

                                                  12
[0069]      FIG. 27 shows Isig and phase for an in-vitro simulation of oxygen deficit at
different glucose concentrations;
[0070]      FIGs. 28A - 28C show an example of oxygen deficiency-led sensitivity loss with
redundant working electrodes WE1 and WE2, as well as the electrodes'                EIS-based
parameters;
[0071]      FIG. 28D shows EIS-induced spikes in the raw Isig for the example of FIGs. 28A
- 28C;
[0072]      FIG. 29 shows an example of sensitivity loss due to oxygen deficiency that is
caused by an occlusion;
[00731      FIGs. 30A - 30C show an example of sensitivity loss due to bio-fouling, with
redundant working electrodes WEl and WE2, as well as the electrodes'                 EIS-based
parameters;
[0074]      FIG. 30D shows EIS-induced spikes in the raw Isig for the example of FIGs. 30A
- 30C;
[00751      FIG. 31 shows a diagnostic procedure for sensor fault detection;
[00761      FIGs. 32A and 32B show another diagnostic procedure for sensor fault detection;
 [00771     FIG. 33A shows a top-level flowchart involving a current (Isig)-based fusion
algorithm;
 [0078]     FIG. 33B shows a top-level flowchart involving a sensor glucose (SG)-based
fusion algorithm;
 [0079]     FIG. 34 shows details of the sensor glucose (SG)-based fusion algorithm of FIG.
33B;
 [0080]     FIG. 35 shows details of the current (Isig)-based fusion algorithm of FIG. 33A;
 [00811     FIG. 36 is an illustration of calibration for a sensor in steady state;
 [0082]      FIG. 37 is an illustration of calibration for a sensor in transition;
 [0083]      FIG. 38A is an illustration of EIS-based dynamic slope (with slope adjustment);
 [0084]      FIG. 38B shows an EIS-assisted sensor calibration flowchart involving low start
up detection;

                                                13
[0085]      FIG. 39 shows sensor current (Isig) and 1kHz impedance magnitude for an in
vitro simulation of an interferent being in close proximity to a sensor;
[00861      FIGs. 40A and 40B show Bode plots for phase and impedance, respectively, for
the simulation shown in FIG. 39;
[00871      FIG. 40C shows a Nyquist plot for the simulation shown in FIG. 39;
[00881      FIG. 41 shows another in-vitro simulation with an interferent;
[0089]      FIG. 42 illustrates an ASIC block diagram;
[0090]      FIG. 43 shows a potentiostat configuration for a sensor with redundant working
electrodes in accordance with embodiments of the invention;
[0091]      FIG. 44 shows an equivalent AC inter-electrode circuit for a sensor with the
potentiostat configuration shown in FIG. 43;
[0092]      FIG. 45 shows some of the main blocks of the EIS circuitry in the analog front
end IC of a glucose sensor in accordance with embodiments of the invention;
[0093]      FIG. 46 shows a simulation of the signals of the EIS circuitry shown in FIG. 45
for a current of 0-degree phase with a 0-degree phase multiply; and
[0094]      FIG. 47 shows a simulation of the signals of the EIS circuitry shown in FIG. 45
for a current of 0-degree phase with a 90-degree phase multiply.

                                                   14
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [00951     In the following description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings
which form a part hereof and which illustrate several embodiments of the present inventions.
It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and operational
changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present inventions.
 [00961     The inventions herein are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations
of methods, systems, devices, apparatus, and programming and computer program products.
It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations, and combinations of
blocks in the flowchart illustrations, can be implemented by programing instructions,
including computer program instructions (as can any menu screens described in the figures).
These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable
data processing apparatus (such as a controller, microcontroller, or processor in a sensor
electronics device) to produce a machine, such that the instructions which execute on the
computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create instructions for
implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.           These computer
program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable memory that can direct a
computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular
manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable memory produce an article
of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the
flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a
computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational
steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a
computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or
other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the
flowchart block or blocks, and/or menus presented herein. Programming instructions may
also be stored in and/or implemented via electronic circuitry, including integrated circuits
(ICs) and Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) used in conjunction with sensor
devices, apparatuses, and systems.
[0097]      FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a subcutaneous sensor insertion set and a block
diagram of a sensor electronics device. As illustrated in FIG. 1, a subcutaneous sensor set 10
is provided for subcutaneous placement of an active portion of a flexible sensor 12 (see, e.g.,
FIG. 2), or the like, at a selected site in the body of a user. The subcutaneous or percutaneous
portion of the sensor set 10 includes a hollow, slotted insertion needle 14, and a cannula 16.

                                                15
The needle 14 is used to facilitate quick and easy subcutaneous placement of the cannula 16
at the subcutaneous insertion site. Inside the cannula 16 is a sensing portion 18 of the sensor
 12 to expose one or more sensor electrodes 20 to the user's bodily fluids through a window
22 formed in the cannula 16. The one or more sensor electrodes 20 may include a counter
electrode, a reference electrode, and one or more working electrodes. After insertion, the
insertion needle 14 is withdrawn to leave the cannula 16 with the sensing portion 18 and the
sensor electrodes 20 in place at the selected insertion site.
 [0098]     The subcutaneous sensor set 10 may facilitate accurate placement of a flexible
thin film electrochemical sensor 12 of the type used for monitoring specific blood parameters
representative of a user's condition. The sensor 12 monitors glucose levels in the body, and
may be used in conjunction with automated or semi-automated medication infusion pumps of
the external or implantable type as described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,562,751; 4,678,408;
4,685,903 or 4,573,994, to control delivery of insulin to a diabetic patient.
 [0099]     The flexible electrochemical sensor 12 may be constructed in accordance with
thin film mask techniques to include elongated thin film conductors embedded or encased
between layers of a selected insulative material such as polyimide film or sheet, and
membranes. The sensor electrodes 20 at a tip end of the sensing portion 18 are exposed
through one of the insulative layers for direct contact with patient blood or other body fluids,
when the sensing portion 18 (or active portion) of the sensor 12 is subcutaneously placed at
an insertion site. The sensing portion 18 is joined to a connection portion 24 that terminates
in conductive contact pads, or the like, which are also exposed through one of the insulative
layers.  In alternative embodiments, other types of implantable sensors, such as chemical
based, optical based, or the like, may be used.
 [00100]    As is known in the art, the connection portion 24 and the contact pads are
generally adapted for a direct wired electrical connection to a suitable monitor or sensor
electronics device 100 for monitoring a user's condition in response to signals derived from
the sensor electrodes 20. Further description of flexible thin film sensors of this general type
are be found in U.S. Pat. No. 5,391,250, entitled METHOD OF FABRICATING THIN FILM
SENSORS, which is herein incorporated by reference. The connection portion 24 may be
conveniently connected electrically to the monitor or sensor electronics device 100 or by a
connector block 28 (or the like) as shown and described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,482,473, entitled
FLEX CIRCUIT CONNECTOR, which is also herein incorporated by reference.                   Thus,

                                                16
subcutaneous sensor sets 10 may be configured or formed to work with either a wired or a
wireless characteristic monitor system.
[00101]      The sensor electrodes 20 may be used in a variety of sensing applications and may
be configured in a variety of ways. For example, the sensor electrodes 20 may be used in
physiological parameter sensing applications in which some type of biomolecule is used as a
catalytic agent. For example, the sensor electrodes 20 may be used in a glucose and oxygen
sensor having a glucose oxidase (GOx) enzyme catalyzing a reaction with the sensor
electrodes 20. The sensor electrodes 20, along with a biomolecule or some other catalytic
agent, may be placed in a human body in a vascular or non-vascular environment.              For
example, the sensor electrodes 20 and biomolecule may be placed in a vein and be subjected
to a blood stream, or may be placed in a subcutaneous or peritoneal region of the human
body.
 [001021     The monitor 100 may also be referred to as a sensor electronics device 100. The
monitor 100 may include a power source 110, a sensor interface 122, processing electronics
 124, and data formatting electronics 128. The monitor 100 may be coupled to the sensor set
 10 by a cable 102 through a connector that is electrically coupled to the connector block 28 of
the connection portion 24. Alternatively, the cable may be omitted. The monitor 100 may
then include an appropriate connector for direct connection to the connection portion 104 of
the sensor set 10. The sensor set 10 may be modified to have the connector portion 104
positioned at a different location, e.g., on top of the sensor set to facilitate placement of the
monitor 100 over the sensor set.
 [00103]     The sensor interface 122, the processing electronics 124, and the data formatting
 electronics 128 may be formed as separate semiconductor chips, however, alternative
 arrangements may combine the various semiconductor chips into a single or multiple
 customized semiconductor chips. The sensor interface 122 connects with the cable 102 that
 is connected with the sensor set 10.
 [00104]     The power source 110 may be a battery. The battery can include three series
 silver oxide 357 battery cells. Different battery chemistries may be utilized, such as lithium
 based chemistries, alkaline batteries, nickel metalhydride, or the like, and a different number
 of batteries may be used. The monitor 100 provides power to the sensor set via the power
 source 110, through the cable 102 and cable connector 104. In one arrangement, the power is
 a voltage provided to the sensor set 10. In one arrangement, the power is a current provided

                                                17
to the sensor set 10. In one arrangement, the power is a voltage provided at a specific voltage
to the sensor set 10.
[00105]     FIGs. 2A and 2B illustrate an implantable sensor and electronics for driving the
implantable sensor. FIG. 2A shows a substrate 220 having two sides, a first side 222 of
which contains an electrode configuration and a second side 224 of which contains electronic
circuitry. As may be seen in FIG. 2A, a first side 222 of the substrate comprises two counter
electrode-working electrode pairs 240, 242, 244, 246 on opposite sides of a reference
electrode 248. A second side 224 of the substrate comprises electronic circuitry. As shown,
the electronic circuitry may be enclosed in a hermetically sealed casing 226, providing a
protective housing for the electronic circuitry. This allows the sensor substrate 220 to be
inserted into a vascular environment or other environment which may subject the electronic
circuitry to fluids. By sealing the electronic circuitry in a hermetically sealed casing 226, the
electronic circuitry may operate without risk of short circuiting by the surrounding fluids.
Also shown in FIG. 2A are pads 228 to which the input and output lines of the electronic
 circuitry may be connected. The electronic circuitry itself may be fabricated in a variety of
ways. The electronic circuitry may be fabricated as an integrated circuit using techniques
 common in the industry.
 [00106]    FIG. 2B illustrates a general block diagram of an electronic circuit for sensing an
 output of a sensor.    At least one pair of sensor electrodes 310 may interface to a data
 converter 312, the output of which may interface to a counter 314. The counter 314 may be
 controlled by control logic 316. The output of the counter 314 may connect to a line interface
 318. The line interface 318 may be connected to input and output lines 320 and may also
 connect to the control logic 316. The input and output lines 320 may also be connected to a
 power rectifier 322.
 [00107]     The sensor electrodes 310 may be used in a variety of sensing applications and
 may be configured in a variety of ways. For example, the sensor electrodes 310 may be used
 in physiological parameter sensing applications in which some type of biomolecule is used as
 a catalytic agent.   For example, the sensor electrodes 310 may be used in a glucose and
 oxygen sensor having a glucose oxidase (GOx) enzyme catalyzing a reaction with the sensor
 electrodes 310. The sensor electrodes 310, along with a biomolecule or some other catalytic
 agent, may be placed in a human body in a vascular or non-vascular environment.              For
 example, the sensor electrodes 310 and biomolecule may be placed in a vein and be subjected
 to a blood stream.

                                                18
[00108]     FIG. 3 illustrates a block diagram of a sensor electronics device and a sensor
including a plurality of electrodes. The sensor set or system 350 includes a sensor 355 and a
sensor electronics device 360. The sensor 355 includes a counter electrode 365, a reference
electrode 370, and a working electrode 375. The sensor electronics device 360 includes a
power supply 380, a regulator 385, a signal processor 390, a measurement processor 395, and
a display/transmission module 397. The power supply 380 provides power (in the form of
either a voltage, a current, or a voltage including a current) to the regulator 385.      The
regulator 385 transmits a regulated voltage to the sensor 355.      In an embodiment of the
invention, the regulator 385 transmits a voltage to the counter electrode 365 of the sensor
355.
[00109]     The sensor 355 creates a sensor signal indicative of a concentration of a
physiological characteristic being measured.       For example, the sensor signal may be
indicative of a blood glucose reading. In an arrangement utilizing subcutaneous sensors, the
sensor signal may represent a level of hydrogen peroxide in a subject.      In an arrangement
where blood or cranial sensors are utilized, the amount of oxygen is being measured by the
sensor and is represented by the sensor signal. In an arrangement utilizing implantable or
long-term sensors, the sensor signal may represent a level of oxygen in the subject. The
sensor signal is measured at the working electrode 375. In an arrangement, the sensor signal
may be a current measured at the working electrode. In an arrangement, the sensor signal
may be a voltage measured at the working electrode.
[00110]     The signal processor 390 receives the sensor signal (e.g., a measured current or
voltage) after the sensor signal is measured at the sensor 355 (e.g., the working electrode).
The signal processor 390 processes the sensor signal and generates a processed sensor signal.
The measurement processor 395 receives the processed sensor signal and calibrates the
processed sensor signal utilizing reference values. In an arrangement, the reference values
are stored in a reference memory and provided to the measurement processor 395.           The
measurement processor 395 generates sensor measurements. The sensor measurements may
be stored in a measurement memory (not shown). The sensor measurements may be sent to a
display/transmission device to be either displayed on a display in a housing with the sensor
electronics or transmitted to an external device.
[001111      The sensor electronics device 360 may be a monitor which includes a display to
display physiological characteristics readings. The sensor electronics device 360 may also be
installed in a desktop computer, a pager, a television including communications capabilities,

                                               19
a laptop computer, a server, a network computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a
portable telephone including computer functions, an infusion pump including a display, a
glucose sensor including a display, and/or a combination infusion pump/glucose sensor. The
sensor electronics device 360 may be housed in a blackberry, a network device, a home
network device, or an appliance connected to a home network.
[001121      FIG. 4 illustrates an alternative arrangement including a sensor and a sensor
electronics device. The sensor set or sensor system 400 includes a sensor electronics device
360 and a sensor 355. The sensor includes a counter electrode 365, a reference electrode 370,
and a working electrode 375. The sensor electronics device 360 includes a microcontroller
410 and a digital-to-analog converter (DAC) 420. The sensor electronics device 360 may
also include a current-to-frequency converter (I/F converter) 430.
[001131     The microcontroller 410 includes software program code, which when executed,
or programmable logic which, causes the microcontroller 410 to transmit a signal to the DAC
420, where the signal is representative of a voltage level or value that is to be applied to the
sensor 355. The DAC 420 receives the signal and generates the voltage value at the level
instructed by the microcontroller 410.          The microcontroller 410 may change the
representation of the voltage level in the signal frequently or infrequently. Illustratively, the
signal from the microcontroller 410 may instruct the DAC 420 to apply a first voltage value
for one second and a second voltage value for two seconds.
[001141     The sensor 355 may receive the voltage level or value. The counter electrode 365
may receive the output of an operational amplifier which has as inputs the reference voltage
and the voltage value from the DAC 420. The application of the voltage level causes the
sensor 355 to create a sensor signal indicative of a concentration of a physiological
characteristic being measured. The microcontroller 410 may measure the sensor signal (e.g.,
a current value) from the working electrode.       Illustratively, a sensor signal measurement
circuit 431 may measure the sensor signal. The sensor signal measurement circuit 431 may
include a resistor and the current may be passed through the resistor to measure the value of
the sensor signal. The sensor signal may be a current level signal and the sensor signal
measurement circuit 431 may be a current-to-frequency (I/F) converter 430. The current-to
frequency converter 430 may measure the sensor signal in terms of a current reading, convert
it to a frequency-based sensor signal, and transmit the frequency-based sensor signal to the
microcontroller 410. The microcontroller 410 may be able to receive frequency-based sensor
signals easier than non-frequency-based sensor signals. The microcontroller 410 receives the

                                                20
sensor signal, whether frequency-based or non frequency-based, and determines a value for
the physiological characteristic of a subject, such as a blood glucose level.               The
microcontroller 410 may include program code, which when executed or run, is able to
receive the sensor signal and convert the sensor signal to a physiological characteristic value.
The microcontroller 410 may convert the sensor signal to a blood glucose level.           In an
embodiment of the invention, the microcontroller 410 may utilize measurements stored
within an internal memory in order to determine the blood glucose level of the subject. The
microcontroller 410 may utilize measurements stored within a memory external to the
microcontroller 410 to assist in determining the blood glucose level of the subject.
[00115]      After the physiological characteristic value is determined by the microcontroller
410, the microcontroller 410 may store measurements of the physiological characteristic
values for a number of time periods. For example, a blood glucose value may be sent to the
microcontroller 410 from the sensor every second or five seconds, and the microcontroller
may save sensor measurements for five minutes or ten minutes of BG readings.                The
microcontroller 410 may transfer the measurements of the physiological characteristic values
to a display on the sensor electronics device 360. For example, the sensor electronics device
360 may be a monitor which includes a display that provides a blood glucose reading for a
subject.   The microcontroller 410 may transfer the measurements of the physiological
characteristic values to an output interface of the microcontroller 410. The output interface
of the microcontroller 410 may transfer the measurements of the physiological characteristic
values, e.g., blood glucose values, to an external device, e.g., an infusion pump, a combined
infusion pump/glucose meter, a computer, a personal digital assistant, a pager, a network
appliance, a server, a cellular phone, or any computing device.
 [001161     FIG. 5 illustrates an electronic block diagram of the sensor electrodes and a
voltage being applied to the sensor electrodes.      In FIG. 5, an op amp 530 or other servo
controlled device connects to sensor electrodes 510 through a circuit/electrode interface 538.
The op amp 530, utilizing feedback through the sensor electrodes, attempts to maintain a
prescribed voltage (what the DAC may desire the applied voltage to be) between a reference
electrode 532 and a working electrode 534 by adjusting the voltage at a counter electrode
536. Current may then flow from a counter electrode 536 to a working electrode 534. Such
current may be measured to ascertain the electrochemical reaction between the sensor
electrodes 510 and the biomolecule of a sensor that has been placed in the vicinity of the
sensor electrodes 510 and used as a catalyzing agent. The circuitry disclosed in FIG. 5 may

                                                   21
 be utilized in a long-term or implantable sensor or may be utilized in a short-term or
 subcutaneous sensor.
 [00117]     In a long-term sensor, where a glucose oxidase (GOx) enzyme is used as a
 catalytic agent in a sensor, current may flow from the counter electrode 536 to a working
 electrode 534 only if there is oxygen in the vicinity of the enzyme and the sensor electrodes
 510. Illustratively, if the voltage set at the reference electrode 532 is maintained at about 0.5
volts, the amount of current flowing from the counter electrode 536 to a working electrode
 534 has a fairly linear relationship with unity slope to the amount of oxygen present in the
 area surrounding the enzyme and the electrodes. Thus, increased accuracy in determining an
 amount of oxygen in the blood may be achieved by maintaining the reference electrode 532
at about 0.5 volts and utilizing this region of the current-voltage curve for varying levels of
blood oxygen.      Different arrangements may utilize different sensors having biomolecules
other than a glucose oxidase enzyme and may, therefore, have voltages other than 0.5 volts
set at the reference electrode.
 [00118]     As discussed above, during initial implantation or insertion of the sensor 510, the
sensor 510 may provide inaccurate readings due to the adjusting of the subject to the sensor
and also electrochemical byproducts caused by the catalyst utilized in the sensor.              A
stabilization period is needed for many sensors in order for the sensor 510 to provide accurate
readings of the physiological parameter of the subject. During the stabilization period, the
sensor 510 does not provide accurate blood glucose measurements. Users and manufacturers
of the sensors may desire to improve the stabilization timeframe for the sensor so that the
sensors can be utilized quickly after insertion into the subject's body or a subcutaneous layer
of the subject.
[00119]      In previous sensor electrode systems, the stabilization period or timeframe was
one hour to three hours.       In order to decrease the stabilization period or timeframe and
increase the timeliness of accuracy of the sensor, a sensor (or electrodes of a sensor) may be
subjected to a number of pulses rather than the application of one pulse followed by the
application of another voltage.      FIG. 6A illustrates a method of applying pulses during a
stabilization timeframe in order to reduce the stabilization timeframe. In this arrangement, a
voltage application device applies 600 a first voltage to an electrode for a first time or time
period. The invention, the first voltage may be a DC constant voltage. This results in an
anodic current being generated. In an alternative arrangement, a digital-to-analog converter
or another voltage source may supply the voltage to the electrode for a first time period. The

                                                22
anodic current means that electrons are being driven towards the electrode to which the
voltage is applied. An application device may apply a current instead of a voltage. Where a
voltage is applied to a sensor, after the application of the first voltage to the electrode, the
voltage regulator may wait (i.e., not apply a voltage) for a second time, timeframe, or time
period 605. In other words, the voltage application device waits until a second time period
elapses. The non-application of voltage results in a cathodic current, which results in the
gaining of electrons by the electrode to which the voltage is not applied. The application of
the first voltage to the electrode for a first time period followed by the non-application of
voltage for a second time period is repeated 610 for a number of iterations. This may be
referred to as an anodic and cathodic cycle. The number of total iterations of the stabilization
method may typically be three, i.e., three applications of the voltage for the first time period,
each followed by no application of the voltage for the second time period. The first voltage
may be 1.07 volts. The first voltage may be 0.535 volts, alternatively, the first voltage may
be approximately 0.7 volts.
[001201      The repeated application of the voltage and the non-application of the voltage
results in the sensor (and thus the electrodes) being subjected to an anodic - cathodic cycle.
The anodic - cathodic cycle results in the reduction of electrochemical byproducts which are
generated by a patient's body reacting to the insertion of the sensor or the implanting of the
sensor. The electrochemical byproducts cause generation of a background current, which
results in inaccurate measurements of the physiological parameter of the subject.             The
electrochemical byproducts may be eliminated.          Under other operating conditions, the
electrochemical byproducts may be reduced or significantly reduced.                A successful
stabilization   method     results in   the   anodic-cathodic    cycle  reaching     equilibrium,
electrochemical byproducts being significantly reduced, and background current being
minimized.
[001211      The first voltage being applied to the electrode of the sensor may be a positive
voltage. Alternatively, the first voltage being applied may be a negative voltage. The first
voltage may be applied to a working electrode.         Alternatively, the first voltage may be
applied to the counter electrode or the reference electrode.
[00122]      The duration of the voltage pulse and the non- application of voltage may be
equal, e.g., such as three minutes each. Alternatively, the duration of the voltage application
or voltage pulse may be different values, e.g., the first time and the second time may be
different.   The first time period may be five minutes and the waiting period may be two

                                                 23
minutes. Alternatively, the first time period may be two minutes and the waiting period (or
second timeframe) may be five minutes. In other words, the duration for the application of
the first voltage may be two minutes and there may be no voltage applied for five minutes.
This timeframe is only meant to be illustrative and should not be limiting. For example, a
first timeframe may be two, three, five or ten minutes and the second timeframe may be five
minutes, ten minutes, twenty minutes, or the like. The timeframes (e.g., the first time and the
second time) may depend on unique characteristics of different electrodes, the sensors, and/or
the patient's physiological characteristics.
 [001231     More or less than three pulses may be utilized to stabilize the glucose sensor. In
other words, the number of iterations may be greater than 3 or less than three. For example,
four voltage pulses (e.g., a high voltage followed by no voltage) may be applied to one of the
electrodes or six voltage pulses may be applied to one of the electrodes.
 [001241     Illustratively, three consecutive pulses of 1.07 volts (followed by respective
waiting periods) may be sufficient for a sensor implanted subcutaneously.                  In one
arrangement, three consecutive voltage pulses of 0.7 volts may be utilized.             The three
consecutive pulses may have a higher or lower voltage value, either negative or positive, for a
sensor implanted in blood or cranial fluid, e.g., the long-term or permanent sensors.            In
addition, more than three pulses (e.g., five, eight, twelve) may be utilized to create the
anodic-cathodic cycling between anodic and cathodic currents in any of the subcutaneous,
blood, or cranial fluid sensors.
[00125]      FIG. 6B illustrates a method of stabilizing sensors in which a voltage application
device may apply 630 a first voltage to the sensor for a first time to initiate an anodic cycle at
an electrode of the sensor. The voltage application device may be a DC power supply, a
digital-to-analog converter, or a voltage regulator. After the first time period has elapsed, a
second voltage is applied 635 to the sensor for a second time to initiate a cathodic cycle at an
electrode of the sensor. Illustratively, rather than no voltage being applied, as is illustrated in
the method of FIG. 6A, a different voltage (from the first voltage) is applied to the sensor
during the second timeframe. The application of the first voltage for the first time and the
application of the second voltage for the second time is repeated 640 for a number of
iterations. The application of the first voltage for the first time and the application of the
second voltage for the second time may each be applied for a stabilization timeframe, e.g., 10
minutes, 15 minutes, or 20 minutes rather than for a number of iterations. This stabilization
timeframe is the entire timeframe for the stabilization sequence, e.g., until the sensor (and

                                                24
 electrodes) are stabilized. The benefit of this stabilization methodology is a faster run-in of
 the sensors, less background current (in other words a suppression of some the background
 current), and a better glucose response.
 [00126       In one specific example, the first voltage may be 0.535 volts applied for five
minutes, the second voltage may be 1.070 volts applied for two minutes, the first voltage of
 0.535 volts may be applied for five minutes, the second voltage of 1.070 volts may be applied
for two minutes, the first voltage of 0.535 volts may be applied for five minutes, and the
second voltage of 1.070 volts may be applied for two minutes. In other words, there may be
three iterations of the voltage pulsing scheme. The pulsing methodology may be changed in
that the second timeframe, e.g., the timeframe of the application of the second voltage may be
lengthened from two minutes to five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes, or twenty
minutes. In addition, after the three iterations are applied, a nominal working voltage of
0.535 volts may be applied.
 [001271     The 1.070 and 0.535 volts are illustrative values. Other voltage values may be
selected based on a variety of factors. These factors may include the type of enzyme utilized
in the sensor, the membranes utilized in the sensor, the operating period of the sensor, the
length of the pulse, and/or the magnitude of the pulse. Under certain operating conditions,
the first voltage may be in a range of 1.00 to 1.09 volts and the second voltage may be in a
range of 0.510 to 0.565 volts. In other operating embodiments, the ranges that bracket the
first voltage and the second voltage may have a higher range, e.g., 0.3 volts, 0.6 volts, 0.9
volts, depending on the voltage sensitivity of the electrode in the sensor.        Under other
operating conditions, the voltage may be in a range of 0.8 volts to 1.34 volts and the other
voltage may be in a range of 0.335 to 0.735. Under other operating conditions, the range of
the higher voltage may be smaller than the range of the lower voltage. Illustratively, the
higher voltage may be in a range of 0.9 to 1.09 volts and the lower voltage may be in a range
of 0.235 to 0.835 volts.
[001281      In one arrangement, the first voltage and the second voltage may be positive
voltages, or alternatively, they may be negative voltages. The first voltage may be positive
and the second voltage may be negative, or alternatively, the first voltage may be negative
and the second voltage may be positive. The first voltage may be different voltage levels for
each of the iterations. The first voltage may be a D.C. constant voltage. Alternatively, the
first voltage may be a ramp voltage, a sinusoid-shaped voltage, a stepped voltage, or other
commonly utilized voltage waveforms. The second voltage may be a D.C. constant voltage,

                                                 25
a ramp voltage, a sinusoid-shaped voltage, a stepped voltage, or other commonly utilized
voltage waveforms. A further option is that the first voltage or the second voltage are AC
signals riding on a DC waveform. The first voltage may be one type of voltage, e.g., a ramp
voltage, and the second voltage may be a second type of voltage, e.g., a sinusoid-shaped
voltage. The first voltage (or the second voltage) may have different waveform shapes for
each of the iterations. For example, if there are three cycles in a stabilization method, in a
first cycle, the first voltage may be a ramp voltage, in the second cycle, the first voltage may
be a constant voltage, and in the third cycle, the first voltage may be a sinusoidal voltage.
[001291      The duration of the first timeframe and the duration of the second timeframe may
have the same value, or alternatively, the duration of the first timeframe and the second
timeframe may have different values. For example, the duration of the first timeframe may
be two minutes and the duration of the second timeframe may be five minutes and the
number of iterations may be three. As discussed above, the stabilization method may include
a number of iterations. During different iterations of the stabilization method, the duration of
each of the first timeframes may change and the duration of each of the second timeframes
may change. Illustratively, during the first iteration of the anodic-cathodic cycling, the first
timeframe may be 2 minutes and the second timeframe may be 5 minutes. During the second
iteration, the first timeframe may be 1 minute and the second timeframe may be 3 minutes.
During the third iteration, the first timeframe may be 3 minutes and the second timeframe
may be 10 minutes.
 [001301     In one example, a first voltage of 0.535 volts is applied to an electrode in a sensor
for two minutes to initiate an anodic cycle, then a second voltage of 1.07 volts is applied to
the electrode for five minutes to initiate a cathodic cycle. The first voltage of 0.535 volts is
then applied again for two minutes to initiate the anodic cycle and a second voltage of 1.07
volts is applied to the sensor for five minutes. In a third iteration, 0.535 volts is applied for
 two minutes to initiate the anodic cycle and then 1.07 volts is applied for five minutes. The
 voltage applied to the sensor is then 0.535 during the actual working timeframe of the sensor,
 e.g., when the sensor provides readings of a physiological characteristic of a subject.
 [00131]      Shorter duration voltage pulses may be utilized in the method illustrated by FIGs.
 6A and 6B. The shorter duration voltage pulses may be utilized to apply the first voltage, the
 second voltage, or both. In an example, the magnitude of the shorter duration voltage pulse
 for the first voltage is -1.07 volts and the magnitude of the shorter duration voltage pulse for
 the second voltage is approximately half of the high magnitude, e.g.,                -.535 volts.

                                                 26
Alternatively, the magnitude of the shorter duration pulse for the first voltage may be 0.535
volts and the magnitude of the shorter duration pulse for the second voltage is 1.07 volts.
[001321     In arrangements utilizing short duration pulses, it is an option that the voltage is
not applied continuously for the entire first time period. Instead, the voltage application
device may transmit a number of short duration pulses during the first time period. In other
words, a number of mini-width or short duration voltage pulses may be applied to the
electrodes of the sensor over the first time period. Each mini-width or short duration pulse
may have a width of a number of milliseconds. Illustratively, this pulse width may be 30
milliseconds, 50 milliseconds, 70 milliseconds or 200 milliseconds. These values are meant
to be illustrative and not limiting. In the scheme illustrated in FIG. 6A, these short duration
pulses are applied to the sensor (electrode) for the first time period and then no voltage is
applied for the second time period.
[00133]      Each short duration pulse may have the same time duration within the first time
period.   For example, each short duration voltage pulse may have a time width of 50
milliseconds and each pulse delay between the pulses may be 950 milliseconds.             In this
example, if two minutes is the measured time for the first timeframe, then 120 short duration
voltage pulses may be applied to the sensor. Alternatively, each of the short duration voltage
pulses may have different time durations. In one example, each of the short duration voltage
pulses has the same amplitude values.        In an alternative arrangement, each of the short
duration voltage pulses has different amplitude values. By utilizing short duration voltage
pulses rather than a continuous application of voltage to the sensor, the same anodic and
cathodic cycling may occur and the sensor (e.g., electrodes) is subjected to less total energy
or charge over time. The use of short duration voltage pulses utilizes less power as compared
to the application of continuous voltage to the electrodes because there is less energy applied
to the sensors (and thus the electrodes).
 [00134]     FIG. 6C illustrates utilization of feedback in stabilizing the sensor. The sensor
system may include a feedback mechanism to determine if additional pulses are needed to
stabilize a sensor. A sensor signal generated by an electrode (e.g., a working electrode) may
be analyzed to determine if the sensor signal is stabilized. A first voltage is applied 630 to an
electrode for a first timeframe to initiate an anodic cycle. A second voltage is applied 635 to
an electrode for a second timeframe to initiate a cathodic cycle. An analyzation module then
analyzes a sensor signal (e.g., the current emitted by the sensor signal, a resistance at a
specific point in the sensor, an impedance at a specific node in the sensor) and determines if a

                                                27
threshold measurement has been reached 637 (e.g., determining if the sensor is providing
accurate readings by comparing against the threshold measurement). If the sensor readings
are determined to be accurate, which represents that the electrode (and thus the sensor) is
stabilized 642 , no additional application of the first voltage and/or the second voltage is
generated. If stability was not achieved, then an additional anodic/cathodic cycle is initiated
by the application 630 of a first voltage to an electrode for a first time period and then the
application 635 of the second voltage to the electrode for a second time period.
 [001351      The analyzation module may typically be employed after an anodic/cathodic
cycle of three applications of the first voltage and the second voltage to an electrode of the
sensor. An analyzation module may be employed after one application of the first voltage
and the second voltage, as is illustrated in FIG. 6C.
 [00136]     The analyzation module may be utilized to measure a voltage emitted after a
current has been introduced across an electrode or across two electrodes. The analyzation
module may monitor a voltage level at the electrode or at the receiving level. Typically, if
the voltage level is above a certain threshold, this may mean that the sensor is stabilized. If
the voltage level falls below a threshold level, this may indicate that the sensor is stabilized
and ready to provide readings.      A current may be introduced to an electrode or across a
couple of electrodes. The analyzation module may monitor a current level emitted from the
electrode. In this arrangement, the analyzation module may be able to monitor the current if
the current is different by an order of magnitude from the sensor signal current. If the current
is above or below a current threshold, this may signify that the sensor is stabilized.
 [00137]     The analyzation module may as well or instead measure impedance between two
electrodes of the sensor. The analyzation module may compare the impedance against a
threshold or target impedance value and if the measured impedance is lower than the target or
threshold impedance, the sensor (and hence the sensor signal) may be stabilized. In one
example, the analyzation module measures a resistance between two electrodes of the sensor.
In this case, if the analyzation module compares the resistance against a threshold or target
resistance value and the measured resistance value is less than the threshold or target
resistance value, then the analyzation module may determine that the sensor is stabilized and
that the sensor signal may be utilized.
[00138]     FIG. 7 illustrates an effect of stabilizing a sensor as described above. Line 705
represents blood glucose sensor readings for a glucose sensor where a previous single pulse
stabilization method was utilized. Line 710 represents blood glucose readings for a glucose

                                                 28
sensor where three voltage pulses are applied (e.g., 3 voltage pulses having a duration of 2
minutes each followed by 5 minutes of no voltage being applied). The x-axis 715 represents
an amount of time. The dots 720, 725, 730, and 735 represent measured glucose readings,
taken utilizing a finger stick and then input into a glucose meter. As illustrated by the graph,
the previous single pulse stabilization method took approximately 1 hour and 30 minutes in
order to stabilize to the desired glucose reading, e.g., 100 units. In contrast, the three pulse
stabilization method took only approximately 15 minutes to stabilize the glucose sensor and
results in a drastically improved stabilization timeframe.
[00139]      FIG. 8A is a block diagram of a sensor electronics device and a sensor including a
voltage generation device.       The voltage generation or application device 810 includes
electronics, logic, or circuits which generate voltage pulses. The sensor electronics device
360 may also include an input device 820 to receive reference values and other useful data.
The sensor electronics device may include a measurement memory 830 to store sensor
measurements. A power supply 380 is configured to supply power to the sensor electronics
device 360. In operation, the power supply 380 supplies power to a regulator 385, which
supplies a regulated voltage to the voltage generation or application device 810.           The
connection terminals 811 couple or connect the sensor 355 to the sensor electronics device
360.
[001401      As illustrated in FIG. 8A, the voltage generation or application device 810
supplies a voltage, e.g., the first voltage or the second voltage, to an input terminal of an
operational amplifier 840. The voltage generation or application device 810 may also supply
the voltage to a working electrode 375 of the sensor 355. Another input terminal of the
operational amplifier 840 is coupled to the reference electrode 370 of the sensor.           The
application of the voltage from the voltage generation or application device 810 to the
operational amplifier 840 drives a voltage measured at the counter electrode 365 to be close
to or equal to the voltage applied at the working electrode 375. Alternatively, the voltage
generation or application device 810 could be utilized to apply the desired voltage between
the counter electrode and the working electrode. This may occur by the application of the
fixed voltage to the counter electrode directly.
[001411      When implementing the sequence illustrated in FIGs. 6A and 6B, with the
arrangement shown in FIG. 8A, the voltage generation device 810 generates a first voltage
that is to be applied to the sensor during a first timeframe. The voltage generation device 810
then transmits this first voltage to an op amp 840 which drives the voltage at a counter

                                                  29
 electrode 365 of the sensor 355 to the first voltage. The voltage generation device 810 could
 alternatively transmit the first voltage directly to the counter electrode 365 of the sensor 355.
 The voltage generation device 810 then does not transmit the first voltage to the sensor 355
 for a second timeframe. In other words, the voltage generation device 810 is turned off or
 switched off. The voltage generation device 810 may be programmed to continue cycling
 between applying the first voltage and not applying a voltage for either a number of iterations
 or for a stabilization timeframe, e.g., for twenty minutes.        FIG. 8B illustrates a voltage
 generation device to implement this.        The voltage regulator 385 transfers the regulated
 voltage to the voltage generation device 810. A control circuit 860 controls the closing and
 opening of a switch 850. If the switch 850 is closed, the voltage is applied. If the switch 850
 is opened, the voltage is not applied. The timer 865 provides a signal to the control circuit
 860 to instruct the control circuit 860 to turn on and off the switch 850. The control circuit
 860 includes logic which can instruct the circuit to open and close the switch 850 a number of
 times (to match the necessary iterations). The timer 865 may also transmit a stabilization
 signal to identify that the stabilization sequence is completed, i.e., that a stabilization
 timeframe has elapsed.
 [001421     FIG. 8C illustrates a voltage generation device which is able to generate a first
voltage for a first timeframe and generate a second voltage for a second timeframe. For this,
 a two position switch 870 is utilized. Illustratively, if the first switch position 871 is turned
on or closed by the timer 865 instructing the control circuit 860, then the voltage generation
 device 810 generates a first voltage for the first timeframe. After the first voltage has been
 applied for the first timeframe, the timer sends a signal to the control circuit 860 indicating
the first timeframe has elapsed and the control circuit 860 directs the switch 870 to move to
the second position 872. When the switch 870 is at the second position 872, the regulated
voltage is directed to a voltage step-down or buck converter 880 to reduce the regulated
voltage to a lesser value. The lesser value is then delivered to the op amp 840 for the second
timeframe. After the timer 865 has sent a signal to the control circuit 860 that the second
timeframe has elapsed, the control circuit 860 moves the switch 870 back to the first position.
This continues until the desired number of iterations has been completed or the stabilization
timeframe has elapsed. After the sensor stabilization timeframe has elapsed, the sensor may
transmit a sensor signal 350 to the signal processor 390.
[00143]      FIG. 8D illustrates a voltage application device 810 utilized to perform more
complex applications of voltage to the sensor.          The voltage application device 810 may

                                                   30
 include a control device 860, a switch 890, a sinusoid voltage generation device 891, a ramp
 voltage generation device 892, and a constant voltage generation device 893.                In other
 arrangements, the voltage application may generate an AC wave on top of a DC signal or
 other various voltage pulse waveforms. As illustrated in FIG. 8D, the control device 860 may
 cause the switch to move to one of the three voltage generation systems 891 (sinusoid), 892
 (ramp), 893 (constant DC). This results in each of the voltage generation systems generating
 the identified voltage waveform. Under certain operating conditions, e.g., where a sinusoidal
 pulse is to be applied for three pulses, the control device 860 may cause the switch 890 to
 connect the voltage from the voltage regulator 385 to the sinusoid voltage generator 891 in
 order for the voltage application device 810 to generate a sinusoidal voltage. Under other
operating conditions, e.g., when a ramp voltage is applied to the sensor as the first voltage for
 a first pulse of three pulses, a sinusoid voltage is applied to the sensor as the first voltage for a
second pulse of the three pulses, and a constant DC voltage is applied to the sensor as the first
voltage for a third pulse of the three pulses, the control device 860 may cause the switch 890,
 during the first timeframes in the anodic/cathodic cycles, to move between connecting the
voltage from the voltage generation or application device 810 to the ramp voltage generation
system 892, then to the sinusoidal voltage generation system 891, and then to the constant
DC voltage generation system 893.           The control device 860 may also be directing or
controlling the switch to connect certain ones of the voltage generation subsystems to the
voltage from the regulator 385 during the second timeframe, e.g., during application of the
second voltage.
 [001441      FIG. 9A illustrates a sensor electronics device including a microcontroller for
generating voltage pulses.          The advanced sensor electronics device may include a
microcontroller 410 (see FIG. 4), a digital-to-analog converter (DAC) 420, an op amp 840,
and a sensor signal measurement circuit 431. The sensor signal measurement circuit may be
a current-to-frequency (I/F) converter 430.          In the arrangement illustrated in FIG. 9A,
software or programmable logic in the microcontroller 410 provides instructions to transmit
signals to the DAC 420, which in turn instructs the DAC 420 to output a specific voltage to
the operational amplifier 840. The microcontroller 410 may also be instructed to output a
specific voltage to the working electrode 375, as is illustrated by line 911 in FIG. 9A. As
discussed above, the application of the specific voltage to operational amplifier 840 and the
working electrode 375 may drive the voltage measured at the counter electrode to the specific
voltage magnitude.       In other words, the microcontroller 410 outputs a signal which is

                                                 31
indicative of a voltage or a voltage waveform that is to be applied to the sensor 355 (e.g., the
operational amplifier 840 coupled to the sensor 355). As an alternative, a fixed voltage may
be set by applying a voltage directly from the DAC 420 between the reference electrode and
the working electrode 375. A similar result may also be obtained by applying voltages to
each of the electrodes with the difference equal to the fixed voltage applied between the
reference and working electrode. In addition, the fixed voltage may be set by applying a
voltage between the reference and the counter electrode.                Under certain operating
conditions, the microcontroller 410 may generate a pulse of a specific magnitude which the
DAC 420 understands represents that a voltage of a specific magnitude is to be applied to the
sensor. After a first timeframe, the microcontroller 410 (via the program or programmable
logic) outputs a second signal which either instructs the DAC 420 to output no voltage (for a
sensor electronics device 360 operating according to the method described in FIG. 6A) or to
output a second voltage (for a sensor electronics device 360 operating according to the
method described in FIG. 6B). The microcontroller 410, after the second timeframe has
elapsed, then repeats the cycle of sending the signal indicative of a first voltage to be applied
(for the first timeframe) and then sending the signal to instruct no voltage is to be applied or
that a second voltage is to be applied (for the second timeframe).
 [00145]     Under other operating conditions, the microcontroller 410 may generate a signal
to the DAC 420 which instructs the DAC to output a ramp voltage. Under other operating
conditions, the microcontroller 410 may generate a signal to the DAC 420 which instructs the
DAC 420 to output a voltage simulating a sinusoidal voltage.             These signals could be
incorporated into any of the pulsing methodologies discussed above in the preceding
paragraph or earlier in the application. The microcontroller 410 may generate a sequence of
instructions and/or pulses, which the DAC 420 receives and understands to mean that a
certain sequence of pulses is to be applied.        For example, the microcontroller 410 may
transmit a sequence of instructions (via signals and/or pulses) that instruct the DAC 420 to
generate a constant voltage for a first iteration of a first timeframe, a ramp voltage for a first
iteration of a second timeframe, a sinusoidal voltage for a second iteration of a first
timeframe, and a squarewave having two values for a second iteration of the second
timeframe.
 [00146]     The microcontroller 410 may include programmable logic or a program to
continue this cycling for a stabilization timeframe or for a number of iterations. Illustratively,
the microcontroller 410 may include counting logic to identify when the first timeframe or

                                                32
 the second timeframe has elapsed.        Additionally, the microcontroller 410 may include
 counting logic to identify that a stabilization timeframe has elapsed.         After any of the
 preceding timeframes have elapsed, the counting logic may instruct the microcontroller to
 either send a new signal or to stop transmission of a signal to the DAC 420.
 [001471     The use of the microcontroller 410 allows a variety of voltage magnitudes to be
 applied in a number of sequences for a number of time durations. The microcontroller 410
 may include control logic or a program to instruct the digital-to-analog converter 420 to
 transmit a voltage pulse having a magnitude of approximately 1.0 volt for a first time period
 of 1 minute, to then transmit a voltage pulse having a magnitude of approximately 0.5 volts
 for a second time period of 4 minutes, and to repeat this cycle for four iterations. The
 microcontroller 420 may be programmed to transmit a signal to cause the DAC 420 to apply
 the    same magnitude voltage pulse for each first voltage in each of the iterations.          The
 microcontroller 410 may be programmed to transmit a signal to cause the DAC to apply a
 different magnitude voltage pulse for each first voltage in each of the iterations. In this case,
the microcontroller 410 may also be programmed to transmit a signal to cause the DAC 420
to apply a different magnitude voltage pulse for each second voltage in each of the iterations.
Illustratively, the microcontroller 410 may be programmed to transmit a signal to cause the
DAC 420 to apply a first voltage pulse of approximately 1.0 volt in the first iteration, to apply
 a second voltage pulse of approximately 0.5 volts in the first iteration, to apply a first voltage
of 0.7 volts and a second voltage of 0.4 volts in the second iteration, and to apply a first
voltage of 1.2 volts and a second voltage of 0.8 volts in the third iteration.
 [00148]     The microcontroller 410 may also be programmed to instruct the DAC 420 to
provide a number of short duration voltage pulses for a first timeframe. In this arrangement,
rather than one voltage being applied for the entire first timeframe (e.g., two minutes), a
number of shorter duration pulses may be applied to the sensor. The microcontroller 410
may also be programmed to instruct the DAC 420 to provide a number of short duration
voltage pulses for the second timeframe to the sensor. Illustratively, the microcontroller 410
may send a signal to cause the DAC to apply a number of short duration voltage pulses where
the short duration is 50 milliseconds or 100 milliseconds. In between these short duration
pulses the DAC may apply no voltage or the DAC may apply a minimal voltage. The
microcontroller may cause the DAC 420 to apply the short duration voltage pulses for the
first timeframe, e.g., two minutes. The microcontroller 410 may then send a signal to cause
the DAC to either not apply any voltage or to apply the short duration voltage pulses at a

                                                 33
 magnitude of a second voltage for a second timeframe to the sensor, e.g., the second voltage
 may be 0.75 volts and the second timeframe may be 5 minutes. The microcontroller 410 may
 send a signal to the DAC 420 to cause the DAC 420 to apply a different magnitude voltage
 for each of the short duration pulses in the first timeframe and/or in the second timeframe.
 Equally, the microcontroller 410 may send a signal to the DAC 420 to cause the DAC 420 to
 apply a pattern of voltage magnitudes to the short durations voltage pulses for the first
timeframe or the second timcframe. For example, the microcontroller may transmit a signal
 or pulses instructing the DAC 420 to apply thirty 20-millisecond pulses to the sensor during
 the first timeframe. Each of the thirty 20-millisecond pulses may have the same magnitude or
may have a different magnitude. In this case, the microcontroller 410 may instruct the DAC
420 to apply short duration pulses during the second timeframe or may instruct the DAC 420
to apply another voltage waveform during the second timeframe.
 [00149]      Although the disclosures in FIGs. 6 - 8 disclose the application of a voltage, a
 current may also be applied to the sensor to initiate the stabilization process. Illustratively, in
the arrangement illustrated in FIG. 6B, a first current may be applied during a first timeframe
to initiate an anodic or cathodic response and a second current may be applied during a
second timeframe to initiate the opposite anodic or cathodic response. The application of the
first current and the second current may continue for a number of iterations or may continue
for a stabilization timeframe. In one example, a first current may be applied during a first
timeframe and a first voltage may be applied during a second timeframe. In other words, one
of the anodic or cathodic cycles may be triggered by a current being applied to the sensor and
the other of the anodic or cathodic cycles may be triggered by a voltage being applied to the
sensor. As described above, a current applied may be a constant current, a ramp current, a
stepped pulse current, or a sinusoidal current. Under certain operating conditions, the current
may be applied as a sequence of short duration pulses during the first timeframe.
[001501       FIG. 9B illustrates a sensor and sensor electronics utilizing an analyzation module
for feedback in a stabilization period. FIG. 9B introduces an analyzation module 950 to the
sensor electronics device 360. The analyzation module 950 utilizes feedback from the sensor
to determine whether or not the sensor is stabilized. In one example, the microcontroller 410
may include instructions or commands to control the DAC 420 so that the DAC 420 applies a
voltage or current to a part of the sensor 355. FIG. 9B illustrates that a voltage or current
could be applied between a reference electrode 370 and a working electrode 375. However,
the voltage or current can be applied in between electrodes or directly to one of the electrodes

                                                  34
and the invention should not be limited by the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 9B.            The
application of the voltage or current is illustrated by dotted line 955. The analyzation module
950 may measure a voltage, a current, a resistance, or an impedance in the sensor 355. FIG.
9B illustrates that the measurement occurs at the working electrode 375, but this should not
limit the invention because other embodiments of the invention may measure a voltage, a
current, a resistance, or an impedance in between electrodes of the sensor or directly at either
the reference electrode 370 or the counter electrode 365. The analyzation module 950 may
receive the measured voltage, current, resistance, or impedance and may compare the
measurement to a stored value (e.g., a threshold value).          Dotted line 956 represents the
analyzation module 950 reading or taking a measurement of the voltage, current, resistance,
or impedance.      Under certain operating conditions, if the measured voltage, current,
resistance, or impedance is above the threshold, the sensor is stabilized and the sensor signal
is providing accurate readings of a physiological condition of a patient.           Under other
operating conditions, if the measured voltage, current, resistance, or impedance is below the
threshold, the sensor is stabilized. Under other operating conditions, the analyzation module
950 may verify that the measured voltage, current, resistance, or impedance is stable for a
specific timeframe, e.g., one minute or two minutes. This may represent that the sensor 355
is stabilized and that the sensor signal is transmitting accurate measurements of a subject's
physiological parameter, e.g., blood glucose level. After the analyzation module 950 has
determined that the sensor is stabilized and the sensor signal is providing accurate
measurements, the analyzation module 950 may transmit a signal (e.g., a sensor stabilization
signal) to the microcontroller 410 indicating that the sensor is stabilized and that the
microcontroller 410 can start using or receiving the sensor signal from the sensor 355. This
is represented by dotted line 957.
[001511     FIG. 10 illustrates a block diagram of a sensor system including hydration
electronics. The sensor system includes a connector 1010, a sensor 1012, and a monitor or
sensor electronics device 1025. The sensor 1012 includes electrodes 1020 and a connection
portion 1024. The sensor 1012 may be connected to the sensor electronics device 1025 via a
connector 1010 and a cable.       The sensor 1012 may be directly connected to the sensor
electronics device 1025. Alternatively, the sensor 1012 may be incorporated into the same
physical device as the sensor electronics device 1025.        The monitor or sensor electronics
device 1025 may include a power supply 1030, a regulator 1035, a signal processor 1040, a
measurement processor 1045, and a processor 1050.            The monitor or sensor electronics

                                                    35
 device 1025 may also include a hydration detection circuit 1060. The hydration detection
 circuit 1060 interfaces with the sensor 1012 to determine if the electrodes 1020 of the sensor
 1012 are sufficiently hydrated.      If the electrodes 1020 are not sufficiently hydrated, the
electrodes 1020 do not provide accurate glucose readings, so it is important to know when the
electrodes 1020 are sufficiently hydrated. Once the electrodes 1020 are sufficiently hydrated,
accurate glucose readings may be obtained.
 [00152]      In an arrangement illustrated in FIG. 10, a hydration detection circuit 1060
includes a delay or timer module 1065 and a connection detection module 1070. In an
arrangement utilizing the short term sensor or the subcutaneous sensor, after the sensor 1012
has been inserted into the subcutaneous tissue, the sensor electronics device or monitor 1025
is connected to the sensor 1012. The connection detection module 1070 identifies that the
sensors electronics device 1025 has been connected to the sensor 1012 and sends a signal to
the timer module 1065. This is illustrated in FIG. 10 by the arrow 1084 which represents a
detector 1083 detecting a connection and sending a signal to the connection detection module
 1070 indicating the sensor 1012 has been connected to the sensor electronics device 1025. In
an arrangement where implantable or long-term sensors are utilized, a connection detection
module 1070 identifies that the implantable sensor has been inserted into the body. The timer
module 1065 receives the connection signal and waits a set or established hydration time.
Illustratively, the hydration time may be two minutes, five minutes, ten minutes, or 20
minutes. These examples are meant to be illustrative and not to be limiting. The timeframe
does not have to be a set number of minutes and can include any number of seconds.
Optionally, after the timer module 1065 has waited for the set hydration time, the timer
module 1065 may notify the processor 1050 that the sensor 1012 is hydrated by sending a
hydration signal, which is illustrated by line 1086.
[001531      In this arrangement, the processor 1050 may receive the hydration signal and only
start utilizing the sensor signal (e.g., sensor measurements) after the hydration signal has been
received. In another arrangement, the hydration detection circuit 1060 is coupled between
the sensor (the sensor electrodes 1020) and the signal processor 1040.          In this case, the
hydration detection circuit 1060 prevents the sensor signal from being sent to signal
processor 1040 until the timer module 1065 has notified the hydration detection circuit 1060
that the set hydration time has elapsed. This is illustrated by the dotted lines labeled with
reference numerals 1080 and 1081.          Illustratively, the timer module 1065 may transmit a
connection signal to a switch (or transistor) to turn on the switch and let the sensor signal

                                                36
 proceed to the signal processor 1040. In an alternative arrangement, the timer module 1065
  transmits a connection signal to turn on a switch 1088 (or close the switch 1088) in the
 hydration detection circuit 1060 to allow a voltage from the regulator 1035 to be applied to
 the sensor 1012 after the hydration time has elapsed. In other words, the voltage from the
 regulator 1035 is not applied to the sensor 1012 until after the hydration time has elapsed.
  [00154]    FIG. 11 illustrates an arrangement including a mechanical switch to assist in
 determining a hydration time. A single housing may include a sensor assembly 1120 and a
 sensor electronics device 1125.     Alternatively, the sensor assembly 1120 may be in one
 housing and the sensor electronics device 1125 may be in a separate housing. The sensor
 assembly 1120 and the sensor electronics device 1125 may be connected together. In these
 arrangements, a connection detection mechanism 1160 may be a mechanical switch. The
 mechanical switch may detect that the sensor 1120 is physically connected to the sensor
 electronics device 1125. A timer circuit 1135 may also be activated when the mechanical
 switch 1160 detects that the sensor 1120 is connected to the sensor electronics device 1125.
 In other words, the mechanical switch may close and a signal may be transferred to a timer
 circuit 1135. Once a hydration time has elapsed, the timer circuit 1135 transmits a signal to
the switch 1140 to allow the regulator 1035 to apply a voltage to the sensor 1120. In other
words, no voltage is applied until the hydration time has elapsed.                 In alternative
arrangements, current may replace voltage as what is being applied to the sensor once the
hydration time elapses. In one option, when the mechanical switch 1160 identifies that a
sensor 1120 has been physically connected to the sensor electronics device 1125, power may
initially be applied to the sensor 1120.     Power being sent to the sensor 1120 results in a
sensor signal being output from the working electrode in the sensor 1120. The sensor signal
may be measured and sent to a processor 1175. The processor 1175 may include a counter
input. Under certain operating conditions, after a set hydration time has elapsed from when
the sensor signal was input into the processor 1175, the processor 1175 may start processing
the sensor signal as an accurate measurement of the glucose in a subject's body. In other
words, the processor 1170 has received the sensor signal from the potentiostat circuit 1170
for a certain amount of time, but will not process the signal until receiving an instruction
from the counter input of the processor identifying that a hydration time has elapsed. The
potentiostat circuit 1170 may include a current-to-frequency converter 1180. In this case, the
current-to-frequency converter 1180 may receive the sensor signal as a current value and may

                                                37
convert the current value into a frequency value, which is easier for the processor 1175 to
handle.
[00155]     Optionally, the mechanical switch 1160 may also notify the processor 1175 when
the sensor 1120 has been disconnected from the sensor electronics device 1125. This is
represented by dotted line 1176 in FIG. 11, and would typically result in the processor 1170
powering down or reducing power to a number of components, chips, and/or circuits of the
sensor electronics device 1125. If the sensor 1120 is not connected, the battery or power
source may be drained if the components or circuits of the sensor electronics device 1125 are
in a power on state. Accordingly, if the mechanical switch 1160 detects that the sensor 1120
has been disconnected from the sensor electronics device 1125, the mechanical switch may
indicate this to the processor 1175, and the processor 1175 may power down or reduce power
to one or more of the electronic circuits, chips, or components of the sensor electronics
device 1125.
[00156]     FIG. 12 illustrates an electrical method of detection of hydration in which an
electrical detecting mechanism for detecting connection of a sensor may be utilized. In this
arrangement, the hydration detection electronics 1250 may include an AC source 1255 and a
detection circuit 1260. The hydration detection electronics 1250 may be located in the sensor
electronics device 1225. The sensor 1220 may include a counter electrode 1221, a reference
electrode 1222, and a working electrode 1223. As illustrated in FIG. 12, the AC source 1255
is coupled to a voltage setting device 1275, the reference electrode 1222, and the detection
circuit 1260.    In this arrangement, an AC signal from the AC source is applied to the
reference electrode connection, as illustrated by dotted line 1291 in FIG. 12. The AC signal
is preferably coupled to the sensor 1220 through an impedance and the coupled signal is
attenuated significantly if the sensor 1220 is connected to the sensor electronics device 1225.
Thus, a low level AC signal is present at an input to the detection circuit 1260. This may also
be referred to as a highly attenuated signal or a signal with a high level of attenuation. Under
certain operating conditions, the voltage level of the AC signal may be Vapplied
*(Ccoupling) / (Ccoupling + Csensor). If the detection circuit 1260 detects that a high level
AC signal (lowly attenuated signal) is present at an input terminal of the detection circuit
 1260, no interrupt is sent to the microcontroller 410 because the sensor 1220 has not been
sufficiently hydrated or activated. For example, the input of the detection circuit 1260 may
be a comparator.      If the sensor 1220 is sufficiently hydrated (or wetted), an effective
capacitance forms between the counter electrode and the reference electrode (e.g.,

                                                  38
  capacitance C,, in FIG. 12), and an effective capacitance forms between the reference
 electrode and the working electrode (e.g., capacitance Cw., in FIG. 12). In other words, an
 effective capacitance relates to capacitance being formed between two nodes and does not
 represent that an actual capacitor is placed in a circuit between the two electrodes.      In one
 implementation for example, the AC signal from the AC source 1255 is sufficiently
 attenuated by capacitances Crc and C,, and the detection circuit 1260 detects the presence of
 a low level or highly attenuated AC signal from the AC source 1255 at the input terminal of
 the detection circuit 1260.       This is significant because the utilization of the existing
 connections between the sensor 1120 and the sensor electronics device 1125 reduces the
 number of connections to the sensor. In other words, the mechanical switch, disclosed in
 FIG. 11, requires a switch and associated connections between the sensor 1120 and the sensor
 electronics device 1125. It is advantageous to eliminate the mechanical switch because the
 sensor 1120 is continuously shrinking in size and the elimination of components helps
 achieve this size reduction.    In alternative arrangements, the AC signal may be applied to
 different electrodes (e.g., the counter electrode or the working electrode) and the invention
may operate in a similar fashion.
 [00157]     As noted above, after the detection circuit 1260 has detected that a low level AC
signal is present at the input terminal of the detection circuit 1260, the detection circuit 1260
may later detect that a high level AC signal, with low attenuation, is present at the input
terminal.    This represents that the sensor 1220 has been disconnected from the sensor
electronics device 1225 or that the sensor is not operating properly. If the sensor has been
disconnected from the sensor electronics device 1225, the AC source may be coupled with
little or low attenuation to the input of the detection circuit 1260.      As noted above, the
detection circuit 1260 may generate an interrupt to the microcontroller. This interrupt may be
received by the microcontroller and the microcontroller may reduce or eliminate power to
one or a number of components or circuits in the sensor electronics device 1225. This may
be referred to as the second interrupt. Again, this helps reduce power consumption of the
sensor electronics device 1225, specifically when the sensor 1220 is not connected to the
sensor electronics device 1225.
[001581      As illustrated in FIG. 12, the AC signal may be applied to the reference electrode
1222, as is illustrated by reference numeral 1291, and an impedance measuring device 1277
may measure the impedance of an area in the sensor 1220. Illustratively, the area may be an
area between the reference electrode and the working electrode, as illustrated by dotted line

                                                  39
  1292 in FIG. 12. Under certain operating conditions, the impedance measuring device 1277
 may transmit a signal to the detection circuit 1260 if a measured impedance has decreased to
 below an impedance threshold or other set criteria.          This represents that the sensor is
 sufficiently hydrated.     Under other operating conditions, the impedance measuring device
  1277 may transmit a signal to the detection circuit 1260 once the impedance is above an
 impedance threshold.        The detection circuit 1260 then transmits the interrupt to the
 microcontroller 410.     In another arrangement, the impedance measuring device 1277 may
 transmit an interrupt or signal directly to the microcontroller.
 [00159]     In an alternative realization, the AC source 1255 may be replaced by a DC source.
 If a DC source is utilized, then a resistance measuring element may be utilized in place of an
 impedance measuring element 1277. Once the resistance drops below a resistance threshold
 or a set criteria, the resistance measuring element may transmit a signal to the detection
 circuit 1260 (represented by dotted line 1293) or directly to the microcontroller indicating
 that the sensor is sufficiently hydrated and that power may be applied to the sensor.
 [00160]     Referring to FIG. 12, if the detection circuit 1260 detects a low level or highly
 attenuated AC signal from the AC source, an interrupt is generated to the microcontroller
410. This interrupt indicates that sensor is sufficiently hydrated. In this embodiment of the
invention, in response to the interrupt, the microcontroller 410 generates a signal that is
transferred to a digital-to-analog converter 420 to instruct or cause the digital-to-analog
converter 420 to apply a voltage or current to the sensor 1220. Any of the different sequence
of pulses or short duration pulses described above in FIGs. 6A, 6B, or 6C or the associated
text describing the application of pulses, may be applied to the sensor 1220.      Illustratively,
the voltage from the DAC 420 may be applied to an op-amp 1275, the output of which is
applied to the counter electrode 1221 of the sensor 1220. This results in a sensor signal being
generated by the sensor, e.g., the working electrode 1223 of the sensor. Because the sensor is
sufficiently hydrated, as identified by the interrupt, the sensor signal created at the working
electrode 1223 is accurately measuring glucose. The sensor signal is measured by a sensor
signal measuring device 431 and the sensor signal measuring device 431 transmits the sensor
signal to the microcontroller 410 where a parameter of a subject's physiological condition is
measured. The generation of the interrupt represents that a sensor is sufficiently hydrated and
that the sensor 1220 is now supplying accurate glucose measurements. In this arrangement,
the hydration period may depend on the type and/or the manufacturer of the sensor and on the
sensor's reaction to insertion or implantation in the subject. Illustratively, one sensor 1220

                                                40
may have a hydration time of five minutes and one sensor 1220 may have a hydration time of
one minute, two minutes, three minutes, six minutes, or 20 minutes. Again, any amount of
time may be an acceptable amount of hydration time for the sensor, but smaller amounts of
time are preferable.
[001611     If the sensor 1220 has been connected, but is not sufficiently hydrated or wetted,
the effective capacitances Cr-c and Cwr may not attenuate the AC signal from the AC source
1255. The electrodes in the sensor 1120 are dry before insertion and because the electrodes
are dry, a good electrical path (or conductive path) does not exist between the two electrodes.
Accordingly, a high level AC signal or lowly attenuated AC signal may still be detected by
the detection circuit 1260 and no interrupt may be generated.        Once the sensor has been
inserted, the electrodes become immersed in the conductive body fluid.          This results in a
leakage path with lower DC resistance.         Also, boundary layer capacitors form at the
metal/fluid interface.    In other words, a rather large capacitance forms between the
metal/fluid interface and this large capacitance looks like two capacitors in series between the
electrodes of the sensor. This may be referred to as an effective capacitance. In practice, a
conductivity of an electrolyte above the electrode is being measured. In some embodiments
of the invention, the glucose limiting membrane (GLM) also illustrates impedance blocking
electrical efficiency.   An unhydrated GLM results in high impedance, whereas a high
moisture GLM results in low impedance.         Low impedance is desired for accurate sensor
measurements.
[00162]     FIG. 13A illustrates a method of hydrating a sensor in which the sensor is
physically connected 1310 to the sensor electronics device. After the connection, a timer or
counter is initiated to count 1320 a hydration time. After the hydration time has elapsed, a
signal is transmitted 1330 to a subsystem in the sensor electronics device to initiate the
application of a voltage to the sensor. As discussed above, a microcontroller may receive the
signal and instruct the DAC to apply a voltage to the sensor or alternatively, a switch may
receive a signal which allows a regulator to apply a voltage to the sensor. The hydration time
may be five minutes, two minutes, ten minutes and may vary depending on the subject and
also on the type of sensor.
[00163]     Alternatively, after the connection of the sensor to the sensor electronics device,
an AC signal (e.g., a low voltage AC signal) may be applied 1340 to the sensor, e.g., the
reference electrode of the sensor. The AC signal may be applied because the connection of
the sensor to the sensor electronics device allows the AC signal to be applied to the sensor.

                                                  41
  After application of the AC signal, an effective capacitance forms 1350 between the electrode
  in the sensor that the voltage is applied to and the other two electrodes. A detection circuit
  determines 1360 what level of the AC signal is present at the input of the detection circuit. If
  a low level AC signal (or highly attenuated AC signal) is present at the input of the detection
  circuit, due to the effective capacitance forming a good electrical conduit between the
  electrodes and the resulting attenuation of the AC signal, an interrupt is generated 1370 by
  the detection circuit and sent to a microcontroller.
  [001641     The microcontroller receives the interrupt generated by the detection circuit and
  transmits 1380 a signal to a digital-to-analog converter instructing or causing the digital-to
  analog converter to apply a voltage to an electrode of the sensor, e.g., the counter electrode.
 The application of the voltage to the electrode of the sensor results in the sensor creating or
 generating a sensor signal 1390. A sensor signal measurement device 431 measures the
 generated sensor signal and transmits the sensor signal to the microcontroller.              The
 microcontroller receives 1395 the sensor signal from the sensor signal measurement device,
 which is coupled to the working electrode, and processes the sensor signal to extract a
 measurement of a physiological characteristic of the subject or patient.
 [00165]      FIG. 13B illustrates an additional method for verifying hydration of a sensor in
 which the sensor is physically connected 1310 to the sensor electronics device.            In an
 embodiment of the invention, an AC signal is applied 1341 to an electrode, e.g., a reference
 electrode, in the sensor. Alternatively, a DC signal is applied 1341 to an electrode in the
 sensor.    If an AC signal is applied, an impedance measuring element measures 1351 an
 impedance at a point within the sensor. Alternatively, if a DC signal is applied, a resistance
 measuring element measures 1351 a resistance at a point within the sensor. If the resistance
 or impedance is lower than a resistance threshold or an impedance threshold, respectively, (or
 other set criteria), then the impedance (or resistance) measuring element transmits 1361 (or
 allows a signal to be transmitted) to the detection circuit, and the detection circuit transmits
an interrupt to the microcontroller identifying that the sensor is hydrated. The reference
numbers 1380, 1390, and 1395 are the same in FIGs. 13A and 13B because they represent the
same action.
 [001661     The microcontroller receives the interrupt and transmits 1380 a signal to a digital
to-analog converter to apply a voltage to the sensor. Alternatively, the digital-to-analog
converter can apply a current to the sensor, as discussed above. The sensor, e.g., the working
electrode, creates 1390 a sensor signal, which represents a physiological parameter of a

                                                 42
 patient. The microcontroller receives 1395 the sensor signal from a sensor signal measuring
 device, which measures the sensor signal at an electrode in the sensor, e.g., the working
 electrode.   The microcontroller processes the sensor signal to extract a measurement of the
 physiological characteristic of the subject or patient, e.g., the blood glucose level of the
 patient.
 [00167]     FIGs. 14A and 14B illustrate methods of combining hydrating of a sensor with
 stabilizing of a sensor in which the sensor is connected 1405 to the sensor electronics device.
 The AC signal is applied 1410 to an electrode of the sensor. The detection circuit determines
 1420 what level of the AC signal is present at an input of the detection circuit.          If the
 detection circuit determines that a low level of the AC signal is present at the input
 (representing a high level of attenuation to the AC signal), an interrupt is sent 1430 to
 microcontroller. Once the interrupt is sent to the microcontroller, the microcontroller knows
 to begin or initiate 1440 a stabilization sequence, i.e., the application of a number of voltage
pulses to an electrode of the sensors, as described above. For example, the microcontroller
may cause a digital-to-analog converter to apply three voltage pulses (having a magnitude of
+ 0.535 volts) to the sensor with each of the three voltage pulses followed by a period of
three voltage pulses (having a magnitude of 1.07 volts to be applied). This may be referred to
transmitting a stabilization sequence of voltages. The microcontroller may cause this by the
execution of a software program in a read-only memory (ROM) or a random access memory.
After the stabilization sequence has finished executing, the sensor may generate 1450 a
sensor signal, which is measured and transmitted to a microcontroller.
[001681      The detection circuit may determine        1432 that a high level AC signal has
continued to be present at the input of the detection circuit (e.g., an input of a comparator),
even after a hydration time threshold has elapsed. For example, the hydration time threshold
may be 10 minutes. After 10 minutes has elapsed, the detection circuit may still be detecting
that a high level AC signal is present. At this point in time, the detection circuit may transmit
1434 a hydration assist signal to the microcontroller.        If the microcontroller receives the
hydration assist signal, the microcontroller may transmit 1436 a signal to cause a DAC to
apply a voltage pulse or a series of voltage pulses to assist the sensor in hydration. In an
embodiment of the invention, the microcontroller may transmit a signal to cause the DAC to
apply a portion of the stabilization sequence or other voltage pulses to assist in hydrating the
sensor. In this arrangement, the application of voltage pulses may result in the low level AC
signal (or highly attenuated signal) being detected 1438 at the detection circuit. At this point,

                                                  43
  the detection circuit may transmit an interrupt, as is disclosed in step 1430, and the
  microcontroller may initiate a stabilization sequence.
  [00169]      FIG. 14B illustrates a second combination of a hydration method and a
  stabilization method where feedback is utilized in the stabilization process.        A sensor is
  connected 1405 to a sensor electronics device. An AC signal (or a DC signal) is applied 1411
 to the sensor. In one arrangement, the AC signal (or the DC signal) is applied to an electrode
  of the sensor, e.g. the reference electrode. An impedance measuring device (or resistance
 measuring device) measures 1416 the impedance (or resistance) within a specified area of the
 sensor. The impedance (or resistance) may be measured between the reference electrode and
 the working electrode. The measured impedance (or resistance) may be compared 1421 to an
 impedance or resistance value to see if the impedance (or resistance) is low enough in the
 sensor, which indicates the sensor is hydrated. If the impedance (or resistance) is below the
 impedance (or resistance) value or other set criteria, (which may be a threshold value), an
 interrupt is transmitted 1431 to the microcontroller.       After receiving the interrupt, the
 microcontroller transmits 1440 a signal to the DAC instructing the DAC to apply a
 stabilization sequence of voltages (or currents) to the sensor. After the stabilization sequence
 has been applied to the sensor, a sensor signal is created in the sensor (e.g., at the working
 electrode), is measured by a sensor signal measuring device, is transmitted by the sensor
 signal measuring device, and is received 1450 by the microcontroller. Because the sensor is
 hydrated and the stabilization sequence of voltages has been applied to the sensor, the sensor
 signal is accurately measuring a physiological parameter (i.e., blood glucose).
 [00170]      FIG. 14C illustrates a third arrangement in which a stabilization method and
 hydration method are combined. In this case, the sensor is connected 1500 to the sensor
 electronics device. After the sensor is physically connected to the sensor electronics device,
 an AC signal (or DC signal) is applied 1510 to an electrode (e.g., reference electrode) of the
 sensor. At the same time, or around the same time, the microcontroller transmits a signal to
cause the DAC to apply 1520 a stabilization voltage sequence to the sensor. Alternatively, a
stabilization current sequence may be applied to the sensor instead of a stabilization voltage
sequence. The detection circuit determines 1530 what level of an AC signal (or DC signal) is
present at an input terminal of the detection circuit. If there is a low level AC signal (or DC
signal), representing a highly attenuated AC signal (or DC signal), present at the input
terminal of the detection circuit, an interrupt is transmitted 1540 to the microcontroller.
Because      the microcontroller   has    already initiated  the stabilization    sequence,   the

                                                   44
  microcontroller receives the interrupt and sets 1550 a first indicator that the sensor is
  sufficiently hydrated. After the stabilization sequence is complete, the microcontroller sets
   1555 a second indicator indicating the completion of the stabilization sequence.             The
  application of the stabilization sequence voltages results in the sensor, e.g., the working
  electrode, creating 1560 a sensor signal, which is measured by a sensor signal measuring
  circuit, and sent to the microcontroller. If the second indicator that the stabilization sequence
  is complete is set and the first indicator that the hydration is complete is set, the
  microcontroller is able to utilize 1570 the sensor signal. If one or both of the indicators are
 not set, the microcontroller may not utilize the sensor signal because the sensor signal may
 not represent accurate measurements of the physiological measurements of the subject.
  [001711     The above-described hydration and stabilization processes may be used, in
 general, as part of a larger continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) methodology. The current
 state of the art in continuous glucose monitoring is largely adjunctive, meaning that the
 readings provided by a CGM device (including, e.g., an implantable or subcutaneous sensor)
 cannot be used without a reference value in order to make a clinical decision. The reference
 value, in turn, must be obtained from a finger stick using, e.g., a BG meter. The reference
 value is needed because there is a limited amount of information that is available from the
 sensor/sensing component.       Specifically, the only pieces of information that are currently
 provided by the sensing component for processing are the raw sensor value (i.e., the sensor
 current or Isig) and the counter voltage, which is the voltage between the counter electrode
 and the reference electrode (see, e.g., FIG. 5). Therefore, during analysis, if it appears that
 the raw sensor signal is abnormal (e.g., if the signal is decreasing), the only way one can
 distinguish between a sensor failure and a physiological change within the user/patient (i.e.,
glucose level changing in the body) is by acquiring a reference glucose value via a finger
stick. As is known, the reference finger stick is also used for calibrating the sensor.
[001721      Embodiments of the inventions described herein are directed to advancements and
improvements in continuous glucose monitoring resulting in a more autonomous system, as
well as related devices and methodologies, wherein the requirement of reference finger sticks
may be minimized, or eliminated, and whereby clinical decisions may be made based on
information derived from the sensor signal alone, with a high level of reliability. From a
sensor-design standpoint, such autonomy may be achieved through electrode redundancy,
sensor diagnostics, and Isig and/or sensor glucose (SG) fusion. "Redundancy" is used in the

                                                   45
  engineering sense to mean the duplication of critical components or functions of a system
  with the intention of increasing reliability of the system.
  [001731     As will be explored further hereinbelow, redundancy may be achieved through the
  use of multiple working electrodes (e.g., in addition to a counter electrode and a reference
  electrode) to produce multiple signals indicative of the patient's blood glucose (BG) level.
  The multiple signals, in turn, may be used to assess the relative health of the (working)
  electrodes, the overall reliability of the sensor, and the frequency of the need, if at all, for
  calibration reference values.
  [00174]     Sensor diagnostics includes the use of additional (diagnostic) information which
  can provide a real-time insight into the health of the sensor. In this regard, it has been
 discovered that Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) provides such additional
 information in the form of sensor impedance and impedance-related parameters at different
 frequencies. Moreover, advantageously, it has been further discovered that, for certain ranges
 of frequencies,     impedance     and/or impedance-related     data are substantially glucose
 independent. Such glucose independence enables the use of a variety of EIS-based markers
 or indicators for not only producing a robust, highly-reliable sensor glucose value (through
 fusion methodologies), but also assessing the condition, health, age, and efficiency of
 individual electrode(s) and of the overall sensor substantially independently of the glucose
 dependent Isig.
 [00175]      For example, analysis of the glucose-independent impedance data provides
 information on the efficiency of the sensor with respect to how quickly it hydrates and is
ready for data acquisition using, e.g., values for 1kHz real-impedance, 1kHz imaginary
impedance, and Nyquist Slope (to be described in more detail hereinbelow).           Moreover,
glucose-independent impedance data provides information on potential occlusion(s) that may
exist on the sensor membrane surface, which occlusion(s) may temporarily block passage of
glucose into the sensor and thus cause the signal to dip (using, e.g., values for 1kHz real
impedance). In addition, glucose-independent impedance data provides information on loss
of sensor sensitivity during extended wear--potentially due to local oxygen deficit at the
insertion site--using, e.g., values for phase angle and/or imaginary impedance at 1kHz and
higher frequencies.
[001761      Within the context of electrode redundancy and EIS, a fusion algorithm may be
used to take the diagnostic information provided by EIS for each redundant electrode and
assess the reliability of each electrode independently.       Weights, which are a measure of

                                                   46
 reliability, may then be added for each independent signal, and a single fused signal may be
 calculated that can be used to generate sensor glucose values as seen by the patient/subject.
  [001771     As can be seen from the above, the combined use of redundancy, sensor
 diagnostics using EIS, and EIS-based fusion algorithms allows for an overall CGM system
 that is more reliable than what is currently available. Redundancy is advantageous in at least
 two respects. First, redundancy removes the risk of a single point of failure by providing
 multiple signals. Second, providing multiple (working) electrodes where a single electrode
 may be sufficient allows the output of the redundant electrode to be used as a check against
 the primary electrode, thereby reducing, and perhaps eliminating, the need for frequent
 calibrations.     In addition, EIS diagnostics       scrutinize the health of each electrode
 autonomously without the need for a reference glucose value (finger stick), thereby reducing
 the number of reference values required.        However, the use of EIS technology and EIS
 diagnostic methods is not limited to redundant systems, i.e., those having more than one
working electrode. Rather, as will be discussed below in connection with embodiments of
the present invention, EIS may be advantageously used in connection with single- and/or
multiple-electrode sensors.
 [00178]      EIS, or AC impedance methods, study the system response to the application of a
periodic small amplitude AC signal. This is shown illustratively in FIG. 15A, where E is the
applied potential, I is the current, and impedance (Z) is defined as AE/AI. However, although
impedance, per se, may be mathematically simply defined as AE/AI, heretofore, there has
been no commercialization success in application of EIS technology to continuous glucose
monitoring. This has been due, in part, to the fact that glucose sensors are very complicated
systems and, so far, no mathematical models have been developed which can completely
explain the complexity of the EIS output for a glucose sensor.
[001791       One simplified electrical     circuit model that has been used to describe
electrochemical impedance spectroscopy is shown in FIG. 15B.            In this illustration, IHP
stands for Inner Helmholtz Plane, OHP stands for Outer Helmholtz Plane, CE is the counter
electrode, WE is the working electrode, Cd is double layer capacitance, R, is polarization
resistance, Z, is Warburg impedance, and R, is solution resistance. Each of the latter four
components--double layer capacitance (C), Warburg impedance (Zw), polarization resistance
(Ry), and solution resistance (R,)--may play a significant role in sensor performance, and can
be measured separately by applying low- or high-frequency alternating working potential.
For example, Warburg          impedance    is closely related to diffusional impedance of

                                                    47
  electrochemical systems--which is primarily a low-frequency impedance--and, as such, exists
  in all diffusion-limited electrochemical sensors. Thus, by correlating one or more of these
  components with one or more components and/or layers of a glucose sensor, one may use EIS
  technology as a sensor-diagnostics tool.
  [001801     As is known, impedance may be defined in terms of its magnitude and phase,
 where the magnitude (ZI) is the ratio of the voltage difference amplitude to the current
 amplitude, and the phase (0) is the phase shift by which the current is ahead of the voltage.
 When a circuit is driven solely with direct current (DC), the impedance is the same as the
 resistant, i.e., resistance is a special case of impedance with zero phase angle. However, as a
 complex quantity, impedance may also be represented by its real and imaginary parts. In this
 regard, the real and imaginary impedance can be derived from the impedance magnitude and
 phase using the following equations:
                    Real Impedance(o) = Magnitude(o) x cos (Phase(o)/180 x 71)
                  Imaginary Impedance(o)     = Magnitude(co) x sin(Phase(co)/180 x 7r)
 where o represents the input frequency at which the magnitude (in ohms) and the phase (in
 degrees) are measured. The relationship between impedance, on the one hand, and current
 and voltage on the other--including how the former may be calculated based on measurement
 of the latter--will be explored more fully below in connection with the sensor electronics,
 including the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), that has been developed for use
in embodiments of the invention.
 [00181]      Continuing with the circuit model shown in FIG. 15B, total system impedance
may be simplified as:
                                                       R _wR2Cd
                        Zt (w) = Z,,(co) + R, +- 1 + W2 R 2C2            P
                                                                 '
where Z,(co) is the Warburg impedance, o is the angular velocity,          j  is the imaginary unit
(used instead of the traditional "i" so as not to be confused with electric current), and Cd, Rp,
and R, are the double layer capacitance, the polarization resistance, and the solution
resistance, respectively (as defined previously). Warburg impedance can be calculated as

                                                 48
                                                              m
                                                   tanh((js) )
                                                        (js)m
                        L2                  Membrane Thickness
                       sI/D       Frequency Dependent Diffusion Length
                                           ZO =       T
                                               0 n 2 F2 DC
 where D is diffusivity, L is the sensor membrane thickness, C is Peroxide concentration, and
 m: V2 corresponds to a 45' Nyquist slope.
  [00182]    A Nyquist plot is a graphical representation, wherein the real part of impedance
 (Real Z) is plotted against its imaginary part (1mg Z) across a spectrum of frequencies. FIG.
  16A shows a generalized example of a Nyquist Plot, where the X value is the real part of the
 impedance and the Y value is the imaginary part of the impedance. The phase angle is the
 angle between the impedance point (X,Y)--which defines a vector having magnitude IZI--and
 the X axis.
 [00183]     The Nyquist plot of FIG. 16A is generated by applying AC voltages plus a DC
 voltage (DC bias) between the working electrode and the counter electrode at selected
 frequencies from 0.1Hz to 1000 MHz (i.e., a frequency sweep). Starting from the right, the
 frequency increases from 0.1 Hz. With each frequency, the real and imaginary impedance
 can be calculated and plotted. As shown, a typical Nyquist plot of an electrochemical system
may look like a semicircle joined with a straight line at an inflection point, wherein the
semicircle and the line indicate the plotted impedance.          In certain embodiments, the
impedance at the inflection point is of particular interest since it is easiest to identify in the
Nyquist plot and may define an intercept. Typically, the inflection point is close to the X
axis, and the X value of the inflection point approximates the sum of the polarization
resistance and solution resistance (R, + R,).
[00184]      With reference to FIG. 16B, a Nyquist plot may typically be described in terms of
a lower-frequency region 1610 and a higher-frequency region 1620, where the labels "higher
frequency" and "lower frequency" are used in a relative sense, and are not meant to be
limiting. Thus, for example, the lower-frequency region 1610 may illustratively include data
points obtained for a frequency range between about 0.1Hz and about 100Hz (or higher), and

                                                  49
  the higher-frequency region 1620 may illustratively include data points obtained for a
  frequency range between about 1kHz (or lower) and about 8kHz (and higher). In the lower
  frequency region 1610, the Nyquist slope represents the gradient of the linear fit 1630 of the
  lower-frequency data points in the Nyquist plot. As shown, in the higher-frequencies region
  1620, the value of imaginary impedance is minimal, and may become negligible. As such,
  the intercept 1600 is essentially the value of the real impedance at the higher frequencies
  (e.g., approximately in the 1kHz to 8kHz range in this case). In FIG. 16B, the intercept 1600
 is at about 25 kOhms.
  [001851      FIGs. 16C and 16D demonstrate how a glucose sensor responds to a sinusoidal
 (i.e., alternating) working potential. In these figures, GLM is the sensor's glucose limiting
 membrane, AP is the adhesion promoter, HSA is human serum albumin, GOX is glucose
 oxidase enzyme (layer),     Edc is DC potential, Eac is AC potential, and Cheroxide is peroxide
 concentration during AC application. As shown in FIG. 16C, if the sensor diffusion length,
 which is a function of AC potential frequency, molecular diffusivity, and membrane
 thickness, is small compared to the membrane (GOX) length, the system gives a relatively
 linear response with a constant phase angle (i.e., infinite). In contrast, if the diffusion length
 is equal to the membrane (GOX) length, the system response will become finite, resulting in
 a semi-circle Nyquist plot, as shown in FIG. 16D. The latter usually holds true for low
 frequency EIS, where the non-Faradaic process is negligible.
 [001861      In performing an EIS analysis, an AC voltage of various frequencies and a DC
 bias may be applied between, e.g., the working and reference electrodes. In this regard, EIS
is an improvement over previous methodologies that may have limited the application to a
simple DC current or an AC voltage of single frequency. Although, generally, EIS may be
performed at frequencies in the pHz to MHz range, in embodiments of the present invention,
a narrower range of frequencies (e.g., between about 0.1Hz and about 8kHz) may be
sufficient. Thus, AC potentials may be applied that fall within a frequency range of between
about 0.1Hz and about 8kHz, with a programmable amplitude of up to at least I OOmV, and
preferably at about 50mV.
[001871       Within the above-mentioned frequency range, the relatively-higher frequencies-
i.e., those that fall generally between about 1kHz and about 8kHz--are used to scrutinize the
capacitive nature of the sensor. Depending on the thickness and permeability of membranes,
a typical range of impedance at the relatively-higher frequencies may be, e.g., between about
500 Ohms and 25kOhms, and a typical range for the phase may be, e.g., between 0 degrees

                                                  50
  and -40 degrees.    The relatively-lower frequencies--i.e., those that fall generally between
  about 0.1Hz and about 1 OOHz--on the other hand, are used to scrutinize the resistive nature of
  the sensor. Here, depending on electrode design and the extent of metallization, a typical
  functioning range for output real impedance may be, e.g., between about 50kOhms and
  300kOhms, and a typical range for the phase may be between about -50 degrees to about -90
  degrees. The above illustrative ranges are shown, e.g., in the Bode plots of FIGs. 16E and
  16F.
  [00188]    As noted previously, the phrases "higher frequencies" and "lower frequencies" are
 meant to be used relative to one another, rather than in an absolute sense, and they, as well as
 the typical impedance and phase ranges mentioned above, are meant to be illustrative, and not
 limiting.   Nevertheless, the underlying principle remains the same:        the capacitive and
 resistive behavior of a sensor can be scrutinized by analyzing the impedance data across a
 frequency spectrum, wherein, typically, the lower frequencies provide information about the
 more resistive components (e.g., the electrode, etc.), while the higher frequencies provide
 information about the capacitive components (e.g., membranes).            However, the actual
 frequency range in each case is dependent on the overall design, including, e.g., the type(s) of
 electrode(s), the surface area of the electrode(s), membrane thickness, the permeability of the
 membrane, and the like. See also FIG. 15B regarding general correspondence between high
 frequency circuit components and the sensor membrane, as well as between low-frequency
 circuit components and the Faradaic process, including, e.g., the electrode(s).
 [00189]     EIS may be used in sensor systems where the sensor includes a single working
 electrode, as well those in which the sensor includes multiple (redundant) working electrodes.
In one embodiment, EIS provides valuable information regarding the age (or aging) of the
sensor.    Specifically, at different frequencies, the magnitude and the phase angle of the
impedance vary. As seen in FIG. 17, the sensor impedance--in particular, the sum of Rp and
Rs--reflects the sensor age as well as the sensor's operating conditions. Thus, a new sensor
normally has higher impedance than a used sensor as seen from the different plots in FIG. 17.
In this way, by considering the X-value of the sum of Rp and Rs, a threshold can be used to
determine when the sensor's age has exceeded the specified operating life of the sensor. It is
noted that, although for the illustrative examples shown in FIGs. 17-21 and discussed below,
the value of real impedance at the inflection point (i.e., Rp + Rs) is used to determine the
aging, status, stabilization, and hydration of the sensor, alternative embodiments may use

                                                  51
 other EIS-based parameters, such as, e.g., imaginary impedance, phase angle, Nyquist slope,
 etc. in addition to, or in place of, real impedance.
 [00190]      FIG. 17 illustrates an example of a Nyquist plot over the life time of a sensor. The
 points indicated by arrows are the respective inflection points for each of the sweeps across
 the frequency spectrum. For example, before initialization (at time t=0), Rs + Rp is higher
 than 8.5 kOhms, and after initialization (at time t=0.5 hr), the value of Rs + Rp dropped to
 below 8 kOhms. Over the next six days, Rs+Rp continues to decrease, such that, at the end
 of the specified sensor life, Rs + Rp dropped to below 6.5 kOhms. Based on such examples,
 a threshold value can be set to specify when the Rs + Rp value would indicate the end of the
 specified operating life of the sensor. Therefore, the EIS technique allows closure of the
 loophole of allowing a sensor to be re-used beyond the specified operating time. In other
 words, if the patient attempts to re-use a sensor after the sensor has reached its specified
 operating time by disconnecting and then re-connecting the sensor again, the EIS will
measure abnormally-low impedance, thereby enabling the system to reject the sensor and
prompt the patient for a new sensor.
 [001911      Additionally, EIS may enable detection of sensor failure by detecting when the
sensor's impedance drops below a low impedance threshold level indicating that the sensor
may be too worn to operate normally. The system may then terminate the sensor before the
specified operating life. As will be explored in more detail below, sensor impedance can also
be used to detect other sensor failure (modes). For example, when a sensor goes into a low
current state (i.e., sensor failure) due to any variety of reasons, the sensor impedance may
also increase beyond a certain high impedance threshold.            If the impedance becomes
abnormally high during sensor operation, due, e.g., to protein or polypeptide fouling,
macrophage attachment or any other factor, the system may also terminate the sensor before
the specified sensor operating life.
[00192]       FIG. 18 illustrates how the EIS technique can be applied during sensor
stabilization and in detecting the age of the sensor. The logic of FIG. 18 begins at 1800 after
the hydration procedure and sensor initialization procedure described previously has been
completed. In other words, the sensor has been deemed to be sufficiently hydrated, and the
first initialization procedure has been applied to initialize the sensor.       The initialization
procedure may preferably be in the form of voltage pulses as described previously in the
detailed description.      However, different waveforms can be used for the initialization
procedure. For example, a sine wave can be used, instead of the pulses, to accelerate the

                                                 52
  wetting or conditioning of the sensor. In addition, it may be necessary for some portion of
  the waveform to be greater than the normal operating voltage of the sensor, i.e., 0.535 volt.
  [001931      At block 1810, an EIS procedure is applied and the impedance is compared to
  both a first high and a first low threshold. An example of a first high and first low threshold
  value would be 7 kOhms and 8.5 kOhms, respectively, although the values can be set higher
  or lower as needed. If the impedance, for example, Rp+Rs, is higher than the first high
  threshold, the sensor undergoes an additional initialization procedure (e.g., the application of
  one or more additional pulses) at block 1820.       Ideally, the number of total initialization
 procedures applied to initialize the sensor would be optimized to limit the impact on both the
  battery life of the sensor and the overall amount of time needed to stabilize a sensor. Thus,
 by applying EIS, fewer initializations can be initially performed, and the number of
 initializations can be incrementally added to give just the right amount of initializations to
 ready the sensor for use. Similarly, in an alternative embodiment, EIS can be applied to the
 hydration procedure to minimize the number of initializations needed to aid the hydration
 process as described in FIGs. 13 - 14.
  [00194]     On the other hand, if the impedance, for example, Rp+Rs, is below the first low
 threshold, the sensor will be determined to be faulty and would be terminated immediately at
 block 1860. A message will be given to the user to replace the sensor and to begin the
 hydration process again. If the impedance is within the high and low thresholds, the sensor
 will begin to operate normally at block 1830. The logic than proceeds to block 1840 where
 an additional EIS is performed to check the age of the sensor. The first time the logic reaches
 block 1840, the microcontroller will perform an EIS to gauge the age of the sensor to close
 the loophole of the user being able to plug in and plug out the same sensor. In future
 iterations of the EIS procedure as the logic returns to block 1840, the microprocessor will
perform an EIS at fixed intervals during the specified life of the sensor.       In one preferred
 embodiment, the fixed interval is set for every 2 hours, however, longer or shorter periods of
time can easily be used.
 [00195]      At block 1850, the impedance is compared to a second set of high and low
thresholds. An example of such second high and low threshold values may be 5.5 kOhms
and 8.5 kOhms, respectively, although the values can be set higher or lower as needed. As
long as the impedance values stay within a second high and low threshold, the logic proceeds
to block 1830, where the sensor operates normally until the specified sensor life, for example,
5 days, is reached. Of course, as described with respect to block 1840, EIS will be performed

                                                53
at the regularly scheduled intervals throughout the specified sensor life. However, if, after
the EIS is performed, the impedance is determined to have dropped below a second lower
threshold or risen above a second higher threshold at block 1850, the sensor is terminated at
block 1860. In further alternative embodiments, a secondary check can be implemented of a
faulty sensor reading. For example, if the EIS indicates that the impedance is out of the range
of the second high and low thresholds, the logic can perform a second EIS to confirm that the
second set of thresholds is indeed not met (and confirm that the first EIS was correctly
performed) before determining the end of sensor at block 1860.
 [00196]      FIG. 19 builds upon the above description and details a possible schedule for
performing diagnostic EIS procedures. Each diagnostic EIS procedure is optional and it is
possible to not schedule any diagnostic EIS procedure or to have any combination of one or
more diagnostic EIS procedures, as deemed needed. The schedule of FIG. 19 begins at
sensor insertion at point 1900. Following sensor insertion, the sensor undergoes a hydration
period 1910.      This hydration period is important because a sensor that is not sufficiently
hydrated may give the user inaccurate readings, as described previously. The first optional
diagnostic EIS procedure at point 1920 is scheduled during this hydration period 1910 to
ensure that the sensor is sufficiently hydrated.     The first diagnostic EIS procedure 1920
measures the sensor impedance value to determine if the sensor has been sufficiently
hydrated.    If the first diagnostic EIS procedure 1920 determines impedance is within a set
high and low threshold, indicating sufficient hydration, the sensor controller will allow the
sensor power-up at point 1930.        Conversely, if the first diagnostic EIS procedure 1920
determines impedance is outside a set high and low threshold, indicating insufficient
hydration, the sensor hydration period 1910 may be prolonged. After prolonged hydration,
once a certain capacitance has been reached between the sensor's electrodes, meaning the
sensor is sufficiently hydrated, power-up at point 1930 can occur.
[001971      A second optional diagnostic EIS procedure 1940 is scheduled after sensor power
up at point 1930, but before sensor initialization starts at point 1950. Scheduled here, the
second diagnostic EIS procedure 1940 can detect if a sensor is being re-used prior to the start
of initialization at 1950. The test to determine if the sensor is being reused was detailed in
the description of FIG. 18. However, unlike the previous description with respect to FIG. 18,
where the aging test is performed after initialization is completed, the aging test is shown in
FIG. 19 as being performed before initialization.       It is important to appreciate that the
timeline of EIS procedures described in FIG. 19 can be rearranged without affecting the

                                                   54
 overall teaching of the application, and that the order of some of the steps can be
 interchanged. As explained previously, the second diagnostic EIS procedure 1940 detects a
 re-used sensor by determining the sensor's impedance value and then comparing it to a set
high and low threshold. If impedance falls outside of the set threshold, indicating the sensor
 is being re-used, the sensor may then be rejected and the user prompted to replace it with a
 new sensor. This prevents the complications that may arise out of re-use of an old sensor.
 Conversely, if impedance falls within a set threshold, sensor initialization 1950 can start with
 the confidence that a new sensor is being used.
 [00198]     A third optional diagnostic EIS procedure 1960 is scheduled after initialization
 starts at point 1950. The third diagnostic EIS procedure 1960 tests the sensor's impedance
value to determine if the sensor is fully initialized. The third diagnostic EIS procedure 1960
 should be performed at the minimum amount of time needed for any sensor to be fully
initialized. When performed at this time, sensor life is maximized by limiting the time a fully
initialized sensor goes unused, and over-initialization is averted by confirming full
initialization of the sensor before too much initialization occurs.               Preventing over
initialization is important because over-initialization results in a suppressed current which can
cause inaccurate readings. However, under-initialization is also a problem, so if the third
diagnostic EIS procedure         1960 indicates the sensor is under-initialized, an optional
initialization at point 1970 may be performed in order to fully initialize the sensor. Under
initialization is disadvantageous because an excessive current results that does not relate to
the actual glucose concentration. Because of the danger of under- and over-initialization, the
third diagnostic EIS procedure plays an important role in ensuring the sensor functions
properly when used.
 [001991     In addition, optional periodic diagnostic EIS procedures 1980 can be scheduled
for the time after the sensor is fully initialized. The EIS procedures 1980 can be scheduled at
any set interval. As will be discussed in more detail below, EIS procedures 1980 may also be
triggered by other sensor signals, such as an abnormal current or an abnormal counter
electrode voltage. Additionally, as few or as many EIS procedures 1980 can be scheduled as
desired. In preferred embodiments, the EIS procedure used during the hydration process,
sensor life check, initialization process, or the periodic diagnostic tests is the same procedure.
In alternative embodiments, the EIS procedure can be shortened or lengthened (i.e., fewer or
more ranges of frequencies checked) for the various EIS procedures depending on the need to

                                                55
  focus on specific impedance ranges.     The periodic diagnostic EIS procedures 1980 monitor
  impedance values to ensure that the sensor is continuing to operate at an optimal level.
   [002001   The sensor may not be operating at an optimal level if the sensor current has
  dropped due to polluting species, sensor age, or a combination of polluting species and sensor
  age. A sensor that has aged beyond a certain length is no longer useful, but a sensor that has
  been hampered by polluting species can possibly be repaired. Polluting species can reduce
  the surface area of the electrode or the diffusion pathways of analytes and reaction
  byproducts, thereby causing the sensor current to drop. These polluting species are charged
  and gradually gather on the electrode or membrane surface under a certain voltage.
 Previously, polluting species would destroy the usefulness of a sensor. Now, if periodic
  diagnostic EIS procedures 1980 detect impedance values which indicate the presence of
 polluting species, remedial action can be taken.      When remedial action is to be taken is
 described with respect to FIG. 20.       Periodic diagnostic EIS procedures 1980 therefore
 become extremely useful because they can trigger sensor remedial action which can possibly
 restore the sensor current to a normal level and prolong the life of the sensor. Two possible
 embodiments of sensor remedial actions are described below in the descriptions of FIG. 21A
 and 21B.
 [00201]     Additionally, any scheduled diagnostic EIS procedure 1980 may be suspended or
 rescheduled when certain events are determined imminent.        Such events may include any
 circumstance requiring the patient to check the sensor reading, including for example when a
patient measures his or her BG level using a test strip meter in order to calibrate the sensor,
when a patient is alerted to a calibration error and the need to measure his or her BG level
using a test strip meter a second time, or when a hyperglycemic or hypoglycemic alert has
been issued but not acknowledged.
[00202]     FIG. 20 illustrates a method of combining diagnostic EIS procedures with sensor
remedial action in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The block 2000
diagnostic procedure may be any of the periodic diagnostic EIS procedures 1980 as detailed
in FIG. 19. The logic of this method begins when a diagnostic EIS procedure is performed at
block 2000 in order to detect the sensor's impedance value.              As noted, in specific
embodiments, the EIS procedure applies a combination of a DC bias and an AC voltage of
varying frequencies wherein the impedance detected by performing the EIS procedure is
mapped on a Nyquist plot, and an inflection point in the Nyquist plot approximates a sum of
polarization resistance and solution resistance (i.e., the real impedance value).      After the

                                                 56
  block 2000 diagnostic EIS procedure detects the sensor's impedance value, the logic moves
  to block 2010.
  [00203]    At block 2010, the impedance value is compared to a set high and low threshold to
  determine if it is normal. If impedance is within the set boundaries of the high and low
  thresholds at block 2010, normal sensor operation is resumed at block 2020 and the logic of
  FIG. 20 will end until a time when another diagnostic EIS procedure is scheduled.
  Conversely, if impedance is determined to be abnormal (i.e., outside the set boundaries of the
 high and low thresholds) at block 2010, remedial action at block 2030 is triggered.          An
 example of a high and low threshold value that would be acceptable during a sensor life
 would be 5.5 kOhms and 8.5 kOhms, respectively, although the values can be set higher or
 lower as needed.
 [00204]     The block 2030 remedial action is performed to remove any of the polluting
 species, which may have caused the abnormal impedance value. In preferred embodiments,
 the remedial action is performed by applying a reverse current, or a reverse voltage between
 the working electrode and the reference electrode. The specifics of the remedial action will
 be described in more detail with respect to FIG. 21. After the remedial action is performed at
block 2030, impedance value is again tested by a diagnostic EIS procedure at block 2040.
The success of the remedial action is then determined at block 2050 when the impedance
value from the block 2040 diagnostic EIS procedure is compared to the set high or low
threshold. As in block 2010, if impedance is within the set thresholds, it is deemed normal,
and if impedance is outside the set thresholds, it is deemed abnormal.
 [00205]    If the sensor's impedance value is determined to have been restored to normal at
block 2050, normal sensor operation at block 2020 will occur. If impedance is still not
normal, indicating that either sensor age is the cause of the abnormal impedance or the
remedial action was unsuccessful in removing the polluting species, the sensor is then
terminated at block 2060. In alternative embodiments, instead of immediately terminating
the sensor, the sensor may generate a sensor message initially requesting the user to wait and
then perform further remedial action after a set period of time has elapsed. This alternative
step may be coupled with a separate logic to determine if the impedance values are getting
closer to being within the boundary of the high and low threshold after the initial remedial
action is performed. For example, if no change is found in the sensor impedance values, the
sensor may then decide to terminate. However, if the sensor impedance values are getting
closer to the preset boundary, yet still outside the boundary after the initial remedial action,

                                                 57
   an additional remedial action could be performed. In yet another alternative embodiment, the
   sensor may generate a message requesting the user to calibrate the sensor by taking a finger
   stick meter measurement to further confirm whether the sensor is truly failing. All of the
  above embodiments work to prevent a user from using a faulty sensor that produces
  inaccurate readings.
   [00206]    FIG. 21A illustrates one example of the sensor remedial action previously
  mentioned, in which blockage created by polluting species is removed by reversing the
  voltage being applied to the sensor between the working electrode and the reference
  electrode. The reversed DC voltage lifts the charged, polluting species from the electrode or
  membrane surface, clearing diffusion pathways. With cleared pathways, the sensor's current
  returns to a normal level and the sensor can give accurate readings. Thus, the remedial action
  saves the user the time and money associated with replacing an otherwise effective sensor.
  [002071     FIG. 21B illustrates an alternative sensor remedial action in which the reversed
 DC voltage applied between the working electrode and the reference electrode is coupled
 with an AC voltage. By adding the AC voltage, certain tightly absorbed species or species on
 the superficial layer can be removed since the AC voltage can extend its force further from
 the electrode and penetrate all layers of the sensor. The AC voltage can come in any number
 of different waveforms.     Some examples of waveforms that could be used include square
 waves, triangular waves, sine waves, or pulses.       As with the previous embodiment, once
 polluting species are cleared, the sensor can return to normal operation, and both sensor life
 and accuracy are improved.
 [002081      While the above examples illustrate the use, primarily, of real impedance data in
 sensor diagnostics, embodiments of the invention are also directed to the use of other EIS
 based, and substantially analyte-independent, parameters (in addition to real impedance) in
 sensor diagnostic procedures.        For example, as mentioned previously, analysis of
 (substantially) glucose-independent impedance data, such as, e.g., values for 1kHz real
impedance and I kHz imaginary impedance, as well as Nyquist slope, provide information on
the efficiency of the sensor with respect to how quickly it hydrates and is ready for data
acquisition.    Moreover, (substantially) glucose-independent impedance data, such as, e.g.,
values for ]kHz real impedance, provides information on potential occlusion(s) that may
exist on the sensor membrane surface, which occlusion(s) may temporarily block passage of
glucose into the sensor and thus cause the signal to dip.

                                                  58
 [002091      In addition, (substantially) glucose-independent impedance data, such as, e.g.,
 values for higher-frequency phase angle and/or imaginary impedance at 1kHz and higher
 frequencies, provides information on loss of sensor sensitivity during extended wear, which
 sensitivity loss may potentially be due to local oxygen deficit at the insertion site. In this
 regard, the underlying mechanism for oxygen deficiency-led sensitivity loss may be
 described as follows: when local oxygen is deficient, sensor output (i.e., Isig and SG) will be
 dependent on oxygen rather than glucose and, as such, the sensor will lose sensitivity to
 glucose.    Other markers, including 0.lHz real impedance, the counter electrode voltage
 (Vcntr), and EIS-induced spikes in the Isig may also be used for the detection of oxygen
 deficiency-led sensitivity loss.      Moreover, in a redundant sensor system, the relative
 differences in 1kHz real impedance, 1kHz imaginary impedance, and 0.1Hz real impedance
between two or more working electrodes may be used for the detection of sensitivity loss due
 to biofouling.
 [002101     EIS-based sensor diagnostics entails consideration and analysis of EIS data
relating to one or more of at least three primary factors, i.e., potential sensor failure modes:
 (1) signal start-up; (2) signal dip; and (3) sensitivity loss. Significantly, the discovery herein
that a majority of the impedance-related parameters that are used in such diagnostic analyses
and procedures can be studied at a frequency, or within a range of frequencies, where the
parameter is substantially analyte-independent           allows for implementation of sensor
diagnostic procedures independently of the level of the analyte in a patient's body. Thus,
while EIS-based sensor diagnostics may be triggered by, e.g., large fluctuations in Isig, which
is analyte-dependent, the impedance-related parameters that are used in such sensor
diagnostic procedures are themselves substantially independent of the level of the analyte.
As will be explored in more detail below, it has also been found that, in a majority of
situations where glucose may be seen to have an effect on the magnitude (or other
characteristic) of an EIS-based parameter, such effect is usually small enough--e.g., at least
an order of magnitude difference between the EIS-based measurement and the glucose effect
thereon--such that it can be filtered out of the measurement, e.g., via software in the IC.
[002111      By definition, "start-up" refers to the integrity of the sensor signal during the first
few hours (e.g., t=0-6 hours) after insertion. For example, in current devices, the signal
during the first 2 hours after insertion is deemed to be unreliable and, as such, the sensor
glucose values are blinded to the patient/user.         In situations where the sensor takes an
extended amount of time to hydrate, the sensor signal is low for several hours after insertion.

                                                 59
  With the use of EIS, additional impedance information is available (by running an EIS
  procedure) right after the sensor has been inserted.      In this regard, the total impedance
  equation may be used to explain the principle behind low-startup detection using 1kHz real
  impedance.    At relatively higher frequencies--in this case, 1kHz and above--imaginary
  impedance is very small (as confirmed with in-vivo data), such that total impedance reduces
  to:
                                                         R
                                    Zt(w) = R, +
                                                   1+ W2 R2 C2
  [002121    As sensor wetting is gradually completed, the double layer capacitance (Cd)
 increases. As a result, the total impedance will decrease because, as indicated in the equation
 above, total impedance is inversely proportional to (the square of) Cd. This is illustrated in
 the form of the intercept 1600 on the real impedance axis shown, e.g., in FIG. 16B.
 Importantly, the 1kHz imaginary impedance can also be used for the same purpose, as it also
 includes, and is inversely proportional to, a capacitance component.
 [00213]     Another marker for low startup detection is Nyquist slope, which relies solely on
 the relatively lower-frequency impedance which, in turn, corresponds to the Warburg
 impedance component of total impedance (see, e.g., FIG. 15B). FIG. 22 shows a Nyquist
plot for a normally-functioning sensor, where Arrow A is indicative of the progression of
time, i.e., sensor wear time, starting from t=0. Thus, EIS at the relatively-lower frequencies
is performed right after sensor insertion (time t=0), which generates real and imaginary
impedance data that is plotted with a first linear fit 2200 having a first (Nyquist) slope. At a
time interval after t=0, a second (lower) frequency sweep is run that produces a second linear
fit 2210 having a second (Nyquist) slope larger than the first Nyquist slope, and so on. As the
sensor becomes more hydrated, the Nyquist slope increases, and the intercept decrease, as
reflected by the lines 2200, 2210, etc. becoming steeper and moving closer to the Y-axis. In
connection with low startup detection, clinical data indicates that there is typically a dramatic
increase of Nyquist slope after sensor insertion and initialization, which is then stabilized to a
certain level. One explanation for this is that, as the sensor is gradually wetted, the species
diffusivity as well as concentration undergo dramatic change, which is reflected in Warburg
impedance.

                                                   60
  [002141    In FIG. 23A, the Isig 2230 for a first working electrode WE1 starts off lower than
  expected (at about 1 OnA), and takes some time to catch up with the Isig 2240 for a second
  working electrode WE2. Thus, in this particular example, WE 1 is designated as having a low
  start-up. The EIS data reflects this low start-up in two ways. First, as shown in FIG. 23A,
 the real impedance at 1kHz (2235) of WEI is much higher than the 1kHz real impedance
 2245 of WE2.       Second, when compared to the Nyquist slope for WE2 (FIG. 23C), the
 Nyquist slope for WEl (FIG. 23B) starts out lower, has a larger intercept 2237, and takes
 more time to stabilize.     As will be discussed later, these two signatures--the 1kHz real
 impedance and the Nyquist slope--can be used as diagnostic inputs in a fusion algorithm to
 decide which of the two electrodes can carry a higher weight when the fused signal is
 calculated. In addition, one or both of these markers may be used in a diagnostic procedure
 to determine whether the sensor, as a whole, is acceptable, or whether it should be terminated
 and replaced.
 [002151     By definition, signal (or Isig) dips refer to instances of low sensor signal, which
 are mostly temporary in nature, e.g., on the order of a few hours. Such low signals may be
 caused, for example, by some form of biological occlusion on the sensor surface, or by
 pressure applied at the insertion site (e.g., while sleeping on the side). During this period, the
 sensor data is deemed to be unreliable; however, the signal does recover eventually. In the
 EIS data, this type of signal dip--as opposed to one that is caused by a glycemic change in the
patient's body--is reflected in the 1kHz real impedance data, as shown in FIG. 24.
 [002161     Specifically, in FIG. 24, both the Isig 2250 for the first working electrode WEI
 and the Isig 2260 for the second working electrode WE2 start out at about 25nA at the far left
end (i.e., at 6 pm). As time progresses, both Isigs fluctuate, which is reflective of glucose
fluctuations in the vicinity of the sensor. For about the first 12 hours or so (i.e., until about 6
am), both Isigs are fairly stable, as are their respective 1kHz real impedances 2255, 2265.
However, between about 12 and 18 hours--i.e., between 6 am and noon--the Isig 2260 for
WE2 starts to dip, and continues a downward trend for the next several hours, until about 9
pm. During this period, the Isig 2250 for WE1 also exhibits some dipping, but Isig 2250 is
much more stable, and dips quite a bit less, than Isig 2260 for WE2. The behavior of the
Isigs for WEI and WE2 is also reflected in their respective 1kHz real impedance data. Thus,
as shown in FIG. 24, during the time period noted above, while the 1kHz real impedance for
WEI (2255) remains fairly stable, there is a marked increase in the 1kHz real impedance for
WE2 (2265).

                                                 61
  [00217]    By definition, sensitivity loss refers to instances where the sensor signal (Isig)
 becomes low and non-responsive for an extended period of time, and is usually
 unrecoverable. Sensitivity loss may occur for a variety of reasons. For example, electrode
 poisoning drastically reduces the active surface area of the working electrode, thereby
 severely limiting current amplitude. Sensitivity loss may also occur due to hypoxia, or
 oxygen deficit, at the insertion site. In addition, sensitivity loss my occur due to certain
 forms of extreme surface occlusion (i.e., a more permanent form of the signal dip caused by
 biological or other factors) that limit the passage of both glucose and oxygen through the
 sensor membrane, thereby lowering the number/frequency of the chemical reactions that
 generate current in the electrode and, ultimately, the sensor signal (Isig). It is noted that the
various causes of sensitivity loss mentioned above apply to both short-term (7-10 day wear)
 and long term (6 month wear) sensors.
 [00218]     In the EIS data, sensitivity loss is often preceded by an increase in the absolute
value of phase phasese) and of the imaginary impedance imaginaryy impedancel) at the
relatively higher frequency ranges (e.g., 128Hz and above, and 1kHz and above,
respectively). Figure 25A shows an example of a normally-functioning glucose sensor where
the sensor current 2500 is responsive to glucose--i.e., Isig 2500 tracks glucose fluctuations-
but all relevant impedance outputs, such as, e.g., 1kHz real impedance 2510, 1kHz imaginary
impedance 2530, and phase for frequencies at or above about 128Hz (2520), remain steady,
as they are substantially glucose-independent.
 [00219]     Specifically, the top graph in FIG. 25A shows that, after the first few hours, the
 1kHz real impedance 2510 holds fairly steady at about 5 kOhms (and the 1kHz imaginary
impedance 2530 holds fairly steady at about -400 Ohms). In other words, at 1kHz, the real
impedance data 2510 and the imaginary impedance data 2530 are substantially glucose
independent, such that they can be used as signatures for, or independent indicators of, the
health, condition, and ultimately, reliability of the specific sensor under analysis. However,
as mentioned previously, different impedance-related parameters may exhibit glucose
independence at different frequency ranges, and the range, in each case, may depend on the
overall sensor design, e.g., electrode type, surface area of electrode, thickness of membrane,
permeability of membrane, etc.
[00220]     Thus, in the example FIG. 25B--for a 90% short tubeless electrode design--the top
graph again shows that sensor current 2501 is responsive to glucose, and that, after the first

                                                  62
  few hours, the 1kHz real impedance 2511 holds fairly steady at about 7.5 kOhms. The
  bottom graph in FIG. 25B shows real impedance data for frequencies between 0.1 Hz (2518)
  and 1kHz (2511). As can be seen, the real impedance data at 0.1Hz (2518) is quite glucose
  dependent.     However, as indicated by reference numerals 2516, 2514, and 2512, real
  impedance becomes more and more glucose-independent as the frequency increases from
  0.1Hz to 1kHz, i.e., for impedance data measured at frequencies closer to 1kHz.
  [002211     Returning to FIG. 25A, the middle graph shows that the phase 2520 at the
  relatively-higher frequencies is substantially glucose-independent. It is noted, however, that
  "relatively-higher frequencies" in connection with this parameter (phase) for the sensor under
  analysis means frequencies of 128Hz and above. In this regard, the graph shows that the
 phase for all frequencies between 128Hz and 8kHz is stable throughout the period shown.
  On the other hand, as can be seen in the bottom graph of FIG. 25C, while the phase 2522 at
  128Hz (and above) is stable, the phase 2524 fluctuates--i.e., it becomes more and more
 glucose-dependent, and to varying degrees--at frequencies that are increasingly smaller than
  128Hz. It is noted that the electrode design for the example of FIG. 25C is the same as that
 used in FIG. 25B, and that the top graph in the former is identical to the top graph in the
 latter.
 [002221      Figure 26 shows an example of sensitivity loss due to oxygen deficiency at the
 insertion site.   In this case, the insertion site becomes oxygen deprived just after day 4
 (designated by dark vertical line in FIG. 26), causing the sensor current 2600 to become low
 and non-responsive. The 1kHz real impedance 2610 remains stable, indicating no physical
occlusion on the sensor. However, as shown by the respective downward arrows, changes in
the relatively higher-frequency phase 2622 and 1kHz imaginary impedance 2632 coincide
with loss in sensitivity, indicating that this type of loss is due to an oxygen deficit at the
insertion site. Specifically, FIG. 26 shows that the phase at higher frequencies (2620) and the
 1kHz imaginary impedance (2630) become more negative prior to the sensor losing
sensitivity--indicated by the dark vertical line--and continue their downward trend as the
sensor sensitivity loss continues. Thus, as noted above, this sensitivity loss is preceded, or
predicted, by an increase in the absolute value of phase (|phasel) and of the imaginary
impedance imaginaryy impedancel) at the relatively higher frequency ranges (e.g., 128Hz and
above, and 1kHz and above, respectively).

                                                  63
  [002231     The above-described signatures may be verified by in-vitro testing, an example of
 which is shown in FIG. 27. FIG. 27 shows the results of in-vitro testing of a sensor, where
  oxygen deficit at different glucose concentrations is simulated. In the top graph, the Isig
  fluctuates with the glucose concentration as the latter is increased from 100 mg/dl (2710) to
 200 mg/dl (2720), 300 mg/dl (2730), and 400 mg/dl (2740), and then decreased back down to
 200 md/dl (2750). In the bottom graph, the phase at the relatively-higher frequencies is
 generally stable, indicating that it is glucose-independent.        However, at very low oxygen
 concentrations, such as, e.g., at 0.1% 02, the relatively high-frequency phase fluctuates, as
 indicated by the encircled areas and arrows 2760, 2770. It is noted that the magnitude and/or
 direction (i.e., positive or negative) of fluctuation depend on various factors. For example,
 the higher the ratio of glucose concentration to oxygen concentration, the higher the
 magnitude of the fluctuation in phase. In addition, the specific sensor design, as well as the
 age of the sensor (i.e., as measured by time after implant), affect such fluctuations. Thus,
 e.g., the older a sensor is, the more susceptible it is to perturbations.
 [002241      FIGs. 28A - 28D show another example of oxygen deficiency-led sensitivity loss
with redundant working electrodes WE1 and WE2. As shown in FIG. 28A, the IkHz real
 impedance 2810 is steady, even as sensor current 2800 fluctuates and eventually becomes
non-responsive. Also, as before, the change in 1kHz imaginary impedance 2820 coincides
with the sensor's loss of sensitivity. In addition, however, FIG. 28B shows real impedance
data and imaginary impedance data (2830 and 2840, respectively) at 0.105Hz.             The latter,
which may be more commonly referred to as "0.1Hz data", indicates that, whereas imaginary
impedance at 0.1Hz appears to be fairly steady, 0.1Hz real impedance 2830 increases
considerably as the sensor loses sensitivity. Moreover, as shown in FIG. 28C, with loss of
sensitivity due to oxygen deficiency, Vent 2850 rails to 1.2 Volts.
[00225]      In short, the diagrams illustrate the discovery that oxygen deficiency-led
sensitivity loss is coupled with lower 1kHz imaginary impedance (i.e., the latter becomes
more negative), higher 0.105Hz real impedance (i.e., the latter becomes more positive), and
Vcntr  rail. Moreover, the oxygen-deficiency process and Veflf-rail are often coupled with the
increase of the capacitive component in the electrochemical circuit. It is noted that, in some
of the diagnostic procedures to be described later, the 0.105Hz real impedance may not be
used, as it appears that this relatively lower-frequency real impedance data may be analyte
dependent.

                                                   64
   [002261    Finally, in connection with the example of FIGs. 28A - 28D, it is noted that 1kHz
  or higher-frequency impedance measurement typically causes EIS-induced spikes in the Isig.
  This is shown in FIG. 28D, where the raw Isig for WE2 is plotted against time. The drastic
  increase of Isig when the spike starts is a non-Faradaic process, due to double-layer
  capacitance charge. Thus, oxygen deficiency-led sensitivity loss may also be coupled with
  higher EIS-induced spikes, in addition to lower 1kHz imaginary impedance, higher 0.105Hz
  real impedance, and Vent rail, as discussed above.
  [00227]     FIG. 29 illustrates another example of sensitivity loss. This case may be thought
  of as an extreme version of the Isig dip described above in connection with FIG. 24. Here,
 the sensor current 2910 is observed to be low from the time of insertion, indicating that there
 was an issue with an insertion procedure resulting in electrode occlusion. The 1kHz real
 impedance 2920 is significantly higher, while the relatively higher-frequency phase 2930 and
 the lkHz imaginary impedance 2940 are both shifted to much more negative values, as
 compared to the same parameter values for the normally-functioning sensor shown in FIG.
 25A. The shift in the relatively higher-frequency phase 2930 and 1kHz imaginary impedance
 2940 indicates that the sensitivity loss may be due to an oxygen deficit which, in turn, may
 have been caused by an occlusion on the sensor surface.
  [00228]    FIGs. 30A-30D show data for another redundant sensor, where the relative
 differences in 1kHz real impedance and 1kHz imaginary impedance, as well as 0.1Hz real
 impedance, between two or more working electrodes may be used for the detection of
 sensitivity loss due to biofouling. In this example, WE1 exhibits more sensitivity loss than
 WE2, as is evident from the higher 1kHz real impedance 3010, lower 1kHz imaginary
 impedance 3020, and much higher real impedance at 0.105Hz (3030) for WE2. In addition,
 however, in this example, Venr 3050 does not rail. Moreover, as shown in FIG. 30D, the
 height of the spikes in the raw Isig data does not change much as time progresses. This
 indicates that, for sensitivity loss due to biofouling, Vcntr-rail and the increase in spike height
 are correlated. In addition, the fact that the height of the spikes in the raw Isig data does not
 change much with time indicates that the capacitive component of the circuit does not change
significantly with time, such that sensitivity loss due to biofouling is related to the resistance
component of the circuit (i.e., diffusion).
 [00229]     Various of the above-described impedance-related parameters may be used, either
individually or in combination, as inputs into: (1) EIS-based sensor diagnostic procedures;

                                                 65
  and/or (2) fusion algorithms for generating more reliable sensor glucose values. With regard
  to the former, FIG, 31 illustrates how EIS-based data--i.e., impedance-related parameters, or
  characteristics--may be used in a diagnostic procedure to determine, in real time, whether a
  sensor is behaving normally, or whether it should be replaced.
  [002301     The diagnostic procedure illustrated in the flow diagram of FIG. 31 is based on
 the collection of EIS data on a periodic basis, such as, e.g., hourly, every half hour, every 10
 minutes, or at any other interval--including continuously--as may be appropriate for the
 specific sensor under analysis. At each such interval, EIS may be run for an entire frequency
 spectrum (i.e., a "full sweep"), or it may be run for a selected frequency range, or even at a
 single frequency.     Thus, for example, for an hourly data collection scheme, EIS may be
 performed at frequencies in the pHz to MHz range, or it may be run for a narrower range of
 frequencies, such as, e.g., between about 0.1Hz and about 8kHz, as discussed hereinabove.
 In embodiments of the invention, EIS data acquisition may be implemented alternatingly
 between a full sweep and an narrower-range spectrum, or in accordance with other schemes.
 [00231]      The temporal frequency of EIS implementation and data collection may be
 dictated by various factors. For example, each implementation of EIS consumes a certain
 amount of power, which is typically provided by the sensor's battery, i.e., the battery running
 the sensor electronics, including the ASIC which is described later.          As such, battery
 capacity, as well as the remaining sensor life, may help determine the number of times EIS is
run, as well as the breadth of frequencies sampled for each such run.                In addition,
embodiments of the invention envision situations that may require that an EIS parameter at a
specific frequency (e.g., real impedance at 1kHz) be monitored based on a first schedule (e.g.,
once every few seconds, or minutes), while other parameters, and/or the same parameter at
other frequencies, can be monitored based on a second schedule (e.g., less frequently). In
these situations, the diagnostic procedure can be tailored to the specific sensor and
requirements, such that battery power may be preserved, and unnecessary and/or redundant
EIS data acquisition may be avoided.
[00232]      It is noted that, in embodiments of the invention, a diagnostic procedure, such as
the one shown in FIG. 31, entails a series of separate "tests" which are implemented in order
to perform real-time monitoring of the sensor. The multiple tests, or markers--also referred to
as "multi markers"--are implemented because each time EIS is run (i.e., each time an EIS
procedure is performed), data may be gathered about a multiplicity of impedance-based

                                                   66
  parameters, or characteristics, which can be used to detect sensor condition or quality,
  including, e.g., whether the sensor has failed or is failing. In performing sensor diagnostics,
  sometimes, there can be a diagnostic test that may indicate a failure, whereas other
  diagnostic(s) may indicate no failure. Therefore, the availability of multiple impedance
  related parameters, and the implementation of a multi-test procedure, are advantageous, as
  some of the multiplicity of tests may act as validity checks against some of the other tests.
  Thus, real-time monitoring using a multi-marker procedure may include a certain degree of
  built-in redundancy.
  [002331     With the above in mind, the logic of the diagnostic procedure shown in FIG. 31
  begins at 3100, after the sensor has been inserted/implanted, and an EIS run has been made,
  so as to provide the EIS data as input. At 3100, using the EIS data as input, it is first
  determined whether the sensor is still in place. Thus, if the IZI slope is found to be constant
  across the tested frequency band (or range), and/or the phase angle is about -90', it is
  determined that the sensor is no longer in place, and an alert is sent, e.g., to the patient/user,
 indicating that sensor pullout has occurred,       The specific parameters (and their respective
 values) described herein for detecting sensor pullout are based on the discovery that, once the
 sensor is out of the body and the membrane is no longer hydrated, the impedance spectrum
 response appears just like a capacitor.
 [00234]      If it is determined that the sensor is still in place, the logic moves to step 3110 to
 determine whether the sensor is properly initialized.            As shown, the "Init. Check" is
 performed by determining: (i) whether I(Ze-Zl)/Zil> 30% at 1kHz, where Z1 is the real
 impedance measured at a first time, and Z1 is the measured impedance at the next interval, at
 discussed above; and (2) whether the phase angle change is greater than 100 at 0.1Hz. If the
 answer to either one of the questions is "yes", then the test is satisfactory, i.e., the Test 1 is
not failed. Otherwise, the Test 1 is marked as a failure.
 [00235]      At step 3120, Test 2 asks whether, at a phase angle of -45', the difference in
frequency between two consecutive EIS runs (f 2 - fi) is greater than 10Hz. Again, a "No"
answer is marked as a fail; otherwise, Test 2 is satisfactorily met.
[00236]      Test 3 at step 3130 is a hydration test. Here, the inquiry is whether the current
impedance Z. is less than the post-initialization impedance Zp at 1kHz. If it is, then this test
is satisfied; otherwise, Test 3 is marked as a fail. Test 4 at step 3140 is also a hydration test,

                                                    67
 but this time at a lower frequency. Thus, this test asks whether Z, is less than 300kOhms at
  0.1Hz during post-initialization sensor operation. Again, a "No" answer indicates that the
  sensor has failed Test 4.
  [002371      At step 3150, Test 5 inquires whether the low-frequency Nyquist slope is globally
 increasing from 0.1Hz to 1Hz. As discussed previously, for a normally-operating sensor, the
 relatively lower-frequency Nyquist slope should be increasing over time. Thus, this test is
 satisfied if the answer to the inquiry is "yes"; otherwise, the test is marked as failed.
  [00238]      Step 3160 is the last test for this embodiment of the diagnostic procedure. Here,
 the inquiry is whether real impedance is globally decreasing.            Again, as was discussed
 previously, in a normally-operating sensor, it is expected that, as time goes by, the real
 impedance should be decreasing. Therefore, a "Yes" answer here would mean that the sensor
 is operating normally; otherwise, the sensor fails Test 6.
 [00239]      Once all 6 tests have been implemented, a decision is made at 3170 as to whether
the sensor is operating normally, or whether it has failed. In this embodiment, a sensor is
 determined to be functioning normally (3172) if it passes at least 3 out of the 6 tests. Put
 another way, in order to be determined to have failed (3174), the sensor must fail at least 4
out of the 6 tests. In alternative embodiments, a different rule may be used to assess normal
operation versus sensor failure. In addition, in embodiments of the invention, each of the
tests may be weighted, such that the assigned weight reflects, e.g., the importance of that test,
or of the specific parameter(s) queried for that test, in determining overall sensor operation
(normal vs. failed). For example, one test may be weighted twice as heavily as another, but
only half as heavily as a third test, etc.
[002401       In other alternative embodiments, a different number of tests and/or a different set
of EIS-based parameters for each test may be used. FIGs. 32A and 32B show an example of
a diagnostic procedure for real-time monitoring that includes 7 tests. Referring to FIG. 32A,
the logic begins at 3200, after the sensor has been inserted/implanted, and an EIS procedure
has been performed, so as to provide the EIS data as input. At 3200, using the EIS data as
input, it is first determined whether the sensor is still in place. Thus, if the IZI slope is found
to be constant across the tested frequency band (or range), and/or the phase angle is about
900, it is determined that the sensor is no longer in place, and an alert is sent, e.g., to the

                                                   68
 patient/user, indicating that sensor pullout has occurred. If, on the other hand, the sensor is
  determined to be in place, the logic moves to initiation of diagnostic checks (3202).
  [002411      At 3205, Test 1 is similar to Test 1 of the diagnostic procedure discussed above in
 connection with FIG. 31, except that the instant Test 1 specifies that the later measurement Z"
 is taken 2 hours after the first measurement. As such, in this example, Zj           = Z 2r. More
 specifically, Test 1 compares the real impedance 2 hours after (sensor implantation and)
 initialization to the pre-initialization value. Similarly, the second part of Test I asks whether
 the difference between the phase 2 hours after initialization and the pre-initialization phase is
 greater than 100 at 0.1Hz.         As before, if the answer to either one of the inquiries is
 affirmative, then it is determined that the sensor is hydrated normally and initialized, and Test
  1 is satisfied; otherwise, the sensor fails this test. It should be noted that, even though the
 instant test inquires about impedance and phase change 2 hours after initialization, the time
 interval between any two consecutive EIS runs may be shorter or longer, depending on a
 variety of factors, including, e.g., sensor design, the level of electrode redundancy, the degree
to which the diagnostic procedure includes redundant tests, battery power, etc.
 [00242]       Moving to 3210, the logic next performs a sensitivity-loss check by inquiring
whether, after a 2-hour interval (n+2), the percentage change in impedance magnitude at
 1kHz, as well as that in the Isig, is greater than 30%. If the answer to both inquiries is "yes",
then it is determined that the sensor is losing sensitivity and, as such, Test 2 is determined to
be failed. It is noted that, although Test 2 is illustrated herein based on a preferred percentage
difference of 30%, in other embodiments, the percentage differences in the impedance
magnitude at 1kHz and in the Isig may fall within the range 10% - 50% for purposes of
conducting this test.
[002431       Test 3 (at 3220) is similar to Test 5 of the algorithm illustrated in FIG. 31. Here,
as before, the question is whether the low-frequency Nyquist slope is globally increasing
from 0.1Hz to 1Hz. If it is, then this test is passed; otherwise, the test is failed. As shown in
3220, this test is also amenable to setting a threshold, or an acceptable range, for the percent
change in the low-frequency Nyquist slope, beyond which the sensor may be deemed to be
failed or, at the very least, may trigger further diagnostic testing. In embodiments of the
invention, such threshold value/acceptable range for the percent change in low-frequency
Nyquist slope may fall within a range of about 2% to about 20%.                 In some preferred
embodiments, the threshold value may be about 5%.

                                                   69
 [00244]     The logic next moves to 3230, which is another low-frequency test, this time
 involving the phase and the impedance magnitude. More specifically, the phase test inquires
 whether the phase at 0.1Hz is continuously increasing over time. If it is, then the test is
 failed. As with other tests where the parameter's trending is monitored, the low-frequency
phase test of Test 4 is also amenable to setting a threshold, or an acceptable range, for the
percent change in the low-frequency phase, beyond which the sensor may be deemed to be
 failed or, at the very least, raise a concern. In embodiments of the invention, such threshold
value/acceptable range for the percent change in low-frequency phase may fall within a range
of about 5% to about 30%. In some preferred embodiments, the threshold value may be
 about 10%.
 [00245]     As noted, Test 4 also includes a low-frequency impedance magnitude test, where
the inquiry is whether the impedance magnitude at 0.1Hz is continuously increasing over
time. If it is, then the test is failed. It is noted that Test 4 is considered "failed" if either the
phase test or the impedance magnitude test is failed.               The low-frequency impedance
magnitude test of Test 4 is also amenable to setting a threshold, or an acceptable range, for
the percent change in the low-frequency impedance magnitude, beyond which the sensor may
be deemed to be failed or, at the very least, raise a concern. In embodiments of the invention,
such threshold value/acceptable range for the percent change in low-frequency impedance
magnitude may fall within a range of about 5% to about 30%.                     In some preferred
embodiments, the threshold value may be about 10%, where the range for impedance
magnitude in normal sensors is generally between about 100 KOhms and about 200 KOhms.
[002461      Test 5 (at 3240) is another sensitivity loss check that may be thought of as
supplemental to Test 2. Here, if both the percentage change in the Isig and the percentage
change in the impedance magnitude at 1kHz are greater than 30%, then it is determined that
the sensor is recovering from sensitivity loss. In other words, it is determined that the sensor
had previously undergone some sensitivity loss, even if the sensitivity loss was not, for some
reason, detected by Test 2. As with Test 2, although Test 5 is illustrated based on a preferred
percentage difference of 30%, in other embodiments, the percentage differences in the Isig
and the impedance magnitude at 1kHz may fall within the range 10% - 50% for purposes of
conducting this test.
[002471      Moving to 3250, Test 6 provides a sensor functionality test with specific failure
criteria that have been determined based on observed data and the specific sensor design.

                                                    70
   Specifically, in one embodiment, a sensor may be determined to have failed and, as such, to
  be unlikely to respond to glucose, if at least two out of the following three criteria are met:
  (1) Isig is less than 10 nA; and (2) the imaginary impedance at 1kHz is less than -1500 Ohm;
  and (3) the phase at 1kHz is less than -15'. Thus, Test 6 is determined to have been passed if
  any two of (1) - (3) are not met. It is noted that, in other embodiments, the Isig prong of this
  test may be failed if the Isig is less than about 5 nA to about 20 nA. Similarly, the second
  prong may be failed if the imaginary impedance at 1kHz is less than about -1000 Ohm to
  about -2000 Ohms. Lastly, the phase prong may be failed if the phase at IkHz is less than
  about -104 to about -20'.
  [00248]      Lastly, step 3260 provides another sensitivity check, wherein the parameters are
  evaluated at low frequency. Thus, Test 7 inquires whether, at 0.1Hz, the magnitude of the
 difference between the ratio of the imaginary impedance to the Isig (n+2), on the one hand,
 and the pervious value of the ratio, on the other, is larger than 30% of the magnitude of the
 previous value of the ratio. If it is, then the test is failed; otherwise, the test is passed. Here,
 although Test 7 is illustrated based on a preferred percentage difference of 30%, in other
 embodiments, the percentage difference may fall within the range 10% - 50% for purposes of
 conducting this test.
 [00249]      Once all 7 tests have been implemented, a decision is made at 3270 as to whether
 the sensor is operating normally, or whether an alert should be sent out, indicating that the
 sensor has failed (or may be failing). As shown, in this embodiment, a sensor is determined
 to be functioning normally (3272) if it passes at least 4 out of the 7 tests. Put another way, in
order to be determined to have failed, or to at least raise a concern (3274), the sensor must
fail at least 4 out of the 7 tests. If it is determined that the sensor is "bad" (3274), an alert to
that effect may be sent, e.g., to the patient/user.           As noted previously, in alternative
embodiments, a different rule may be used to assess normal operation versus sensor
failure/concern.     In addition, in embodiments of the invention, each of the tests may be
weighted, such that the assigned weight reflects, e.g., the importance of that test, or of the
specific parameter(s) queried for that test, in determining overall sensor operation (normal vs.
failed).
[00250]       As was noted previously, in embodiments of the invention, various of the above
described impedance-related parameters may be used, either individually or in combination,
as inputs into one or more fusion algorithms for generating more reliable sensor glucose

                                                 71
 values. Specifically, it is known that, unlike a single-sensor (i.e., a single-working-electrode)
 system, multiple sensing electrodes provide higher-reliability glucose readouts, as a plurality
 of signals, obtained from two or more working electrodes, may be fused to provide a single
 sensor glucose value.      Such signal fusion utilizes quantitative inputs provided by EIS to
 calculate the most reliable output sensor glucose value from the redundant working
 electrodes.     It is noted that, while the ensuing discussion may describe various fusion
 algorithms in terms of a first working electrode (WE1) and a second working electrode
 (WE2) as the redundant electrodes, this is by way of illustration, and not limitation, as the
 algorithms and their underlying principles described herein are applicable to, and may be
used in, redundant sensor systems having more than 2 working electrodes.
 [002511       FIGs. 33A and 33B show top-level flowcharts for two alternative methodologies,
each of which includes a fusion algorithm. Specifically, FIG. 33A is a flowchart involving a
current (Isig)-based fusion algorithm, and FIG. 33B is a flowchart directed to sensor glucose
(SG) fusion. As may be seen from the diagrams, the primary difference between the two
methodologies is the time of calibration.       Thus, FIG. 33A shows that, for Isig fusion,
calibration 3590 is performed after the fusion 3540 is completed, That is, redundant Isigs
from WE to WEn are fused into a single Isig 3589, which is then calibrated to produce a
single sensor glucose value 3598.       For SG fusion, on the other hand, calibration 3435 is
completed for each individual Isig from WEI to WEn to produce calibrated SG values (e.g.,
3436, 3438) for each of the working electrodes. Thus, SG fusion algorithms provide for
independent calibration of each of the plurality of Isigs, which may be preferred in
embodiments of the invention. Once calibrated, the plurality of calibrated SG values is fused
into a single SG value 3498.
[002521       It is important to note that each of flowcharts shown in FIGs. 33A and 33B
includes a spike filtering process (3520, 3420). As was described above in the discussion
relating to sensitivity loss, 1kHz or higher-frequency impedance measurements typically
cause EIS-induced spikes in the Isig. Therefore, once an EIS procedure has been performed
for each of the electrodes WE1 to WEn, for both SG fusion and Isig fusion, it is preferable to
first filter the Isigs 3410, 3412, etc. and 3510, 3512, etc. to obtain respective filtered Isigs
3422, 3424, etc. and 3522, 3524, etc. The filtered Isigs are then either used in Isig fusion, or
first calibrated and then used in SG fusion, as detailed below. As will become apparent in the
ensuing discussion, both fusion algorithms entail calculation and assignment of weights based
on various factors.

                                                    72
   [002531    FIG. 34 shows the details of the fusion algorithm 3440 for SG fusion.
  Essentially, there are four factors that need to be checked before the fusion weights are
  detennined. First, integrity check 3450 involves determining whether each of the following
  parameters is within specified ranges for normal sensor operation (e.g., predetermined lower
  and upper thresholds): (i) Isig; (ii) 1kHz real and imaginary impedances; (iii) 0.105Hz real
  and imaginary impedances; and (iv) Nyquist slope. As shown, integrity check 3450 includes
  a Bound Check 3452 and a Noise Check 3456, wherein, for each of the Checks, the above
  mentioned parameters are used as input parameters. It is noted that, for brevity, real and/or
  imaginary impedances, at one or more frequencies, appear on FIGs. 33A - 35 simply as
  "Imp" for impedance. In addition, both real and imaginary impedances may be calculated
 using impedance magnitude and phase (which is also shown as an input on FIGS. 33A and
 33B).
  [00254]    The output from each of the Bound Check 3452 and the Noise Check 3458 is a
 respective reliability index (RI) for each of the redundant working electrodes.      Thus, the
 output from the Bound Check includes, e.g., RI boundWei (3543) and RIboundWe
                                                                                              2
 (3454). Similarly, for the Noise Check, the output includes, e.g., RI noise Wei (3457) and
 RI noiseWe 2 (3458). The bound and noise reliability indices for each working electrode are
 calculated based on compliance with the above-mentioned ranges for normal sensor
 operation. Thus, if any of the parameters falls outside the specified ranges for a particular
 electrode, the reliability index for that particular electrode decreases.
 [00255]     It is noted that the threshold values, or ranges, for the above-mentioned
parameters may depend on various factors, including the specific sensor and/or electrode
 design. Nevertheless, in one preferred embodiment, typical ranges for some of the above
mentioned parameters may be, e.g., as follows: Bound threshold for 1kHz real impedance =
 [0.3e+4    2e+4]; Bound threshold for 1kHz imaginary impedance = [-2e+3, 0]; Bound
threshold for 0.105Hz real impedance           =  [2e+4     7e+4]; Bound threshold for 0.105Hz
imaginary impedance = [-2e+5 -0.25e+5]; and Bound threshold for Nyquist slope = [2 5].
Noise may be calculated, e.g., using second order central difference method where, if noise is
above a certain percentage (e.g., 30%) of median value for each variable buffer, it is
considered to be out of noise bound.
[00256]      Second, sensor dips may be detected using sensor current (Isig) and 1kHz real
impedance. Thus, as shown in FIG. 34, Isig and "Imp" are used as inputs for dips detection

                                                    73
  3460. Here, the first step is to determine whether there is any divergence between Isigs, and
  whether any such divergence is reflected in 1kHz real impedance data.              This may be
  accomplished by using mapping 3465 between the Isig similarity index (RI_simisig12) 3463
  and the 1kHz real impedance similarity index (RIjsimimpl2) 3464.                This mapping is
  critical, as it helps avoid false positives in instances where a dip is not real. Where the Isig
  divergence is real, the algorithm will select the sensor with the higher Isig.
  [002571      In accordance with embodiments of the invention, the divergence/convergence of
 two signals (e.g., two Isigs, or two 1kHz real impedance data points) can be calculated as
 follows:
                                   diff val = abs(val - (val+va2)/2);
                                  diffva2 = abs(va2 - (val+va2)/2);
                     RIsim = I - (diffval + diff va2)/(mean(abs(val+va2))/4)
 where val and va2 are two variables, and RI sim (similarity index) is the index to measure
 the convergence or divergence of the signals. In this embodiment, RI_sim must be bound
 between 0 and 1. Therefore, if RI_sim as calculated above is less than 0, it will be set to 0,
 and if it is higher than 1, it will be set to 1.
 [00258]       The mapping 3465 is performed by using ordinary linear regression (OLR).
 However, when OLR does not work well, a robust median slope linear regression (RMSLR)
 can be used. For Isig similarity index and 1kHz real impedance index, for example, two
mapping procedures are needed: (i) Map Isig similarity index to 1kHz real impedance
similarity index; and (ii) map 1kHz real impedance similarity index to Isig similarity index.
Both mapping procedures will generate two residuals: resl2 and res2l. Each of the dip
reliability indices 3467, 3468 can then be calculated as:
            RI dip   = 1 - (resl2 + res2l)/(RI sim-isig + RI sim_1K_real_impedance).
[002591       The third factor is sensitivity loss 3470, which may be detected using 1kHz
imaginary impedance trending in, e.g., the past 8 hours.           If one sensor's trending turns
negative, the algorithm will rely on the other sensor. If both sensors lose sensitivity, then a
simple average is taken. Trending may be calculated by using a strong low-pass filter to
smooth over the 1kHz imaginary impedance, which tends to be noisy, and by using a
correlation coefficient or linear regression with respect to time during, e.g., the past 8 hours

                                                  74
 to determine whether the correlation coefficient is negative or the slope is negative. Each of
 the sensitivity loss reliability indices 3473, 3474 is then assigned a binary value of 1 or 0.
  [00260]    The total reliability index (RI) for each of wel, we2,      . .  wen is calculated as
 follows:
       RI we= RI dip wei x RIsensitivityloss wei x RIbound wei x RI-noisewei
       RI_we2 = RIdip we2 x RI_sensitivityloss we2 x RIboundwe2 x RInoisewe2
       RI_we 3 = RI_dip we 3 x RIsensitivityloss we3 x RI_bound_we3 x RI_noise_we 3
       RI_we 4 = RI dipwe4       x RI sensitivityloss we4 x RIboundwe4       x RI noisewe 4
       RI_ wen = RI-dip wen x RI sensitivity loss wei,      x RI boundwe. x RI noisewe.
 [00261]     Having calculated the respective reliability indices of the individual working
 electrodes, the weight for each of the electrodes may be calculated as follow:
             weight-wei    = RI wei/(RI wei+RI_we 2+RI_we 3+RI we4+...+RI we.)
             weightwe 2 = RIwe2/(RI we1 +RI_we 2+RI-we 3+RI_we 4+...+RI we.)
             weight we3    = RI we 3/(RI wei+RI_we 2+RI we 3+RI_we4+...+RIwen)
             weight we4 = RI_we 4/(RI we1+RIwe2+RI we3+RI_we 4+..+RIwen)
            weight we, = RIwen /(RI we1+RI we2+RI we3+RI_we 4+...+RI we 1)
[002621      Based on the above, the fused SG 3498 is then calculated as follows:
         SG = weight_wei x SGwei + weight we2 x SG_we2 + weight we3 x SGwe3+
                weightwe 4 x SG-we4+ . . . + weightwe1 x SG_we1
[00263]     The last factor relates to artifacts in the final sensor readout, such as may be
caused by instant weight change of sensor fusion. This may be avoided by either applying a
low-pass filter 3480 to smooth the RI for each electrode, or by applying a low-pass filter to

                                                  75
 the final SG. When the former is used, the filtered reliability indices--e.g., RI Wel * and
 RIWe2* (3482, 3484)--are used in the calculation of the weight for each electrode and,
 therefore, in the calculation of the fused SG 3498.
  [002641     FIG. 35 shows the details of the fusion algorithm 3540 for Isig fusion. As can be
 seen, this algorithm is substantially similar to the one shown in FIG. 34 for SG fusion, with
 two exceptions.     First, as was noted previously, for Isig fusion, calibration constitutes the
 final step of the process, where the single fused Isig 3589 is calibrated to generate a single
 sensor glucose value 3598. See also FIG. 33B.         Second, whereas SG fusion uses the SG
values for the plurality of electrodes to calculate the final SG value 3498, the fused Isig value
 3589 is calculated using the filtered Isigs (3522, 3524, and so on) for the plurality of
 electrodes,
 [002651     In one closed-loop study involving a non-diabetic population, it was found that the
above-described fusion algorithms provided considerable improvements in the Mean
Absolute Relative Difference (MARD) both on Day 1, when low start-up issues are most
significant and, as such, may have a substantial impact on sensor accuracy and reliability, and
overall (i.e., over a 7-day life of the sensor). The study evaluated data for an 88% distributed
layout    design   with    high  current   density (nominal) plating     using three    different
methodologies: (1) calculation of one sensor glucose value (SG) via fusion using Medtronic
Minimed's Ferrari Algorithm 1.0 (which is a SG fusion algorithm as discussed above); (2)
calculation of one SG by identifying the better ISIG value using lkHz EIS data (through the
Isig fusion algorithm discussed above); and (3) calculation of one SG by using the higher
ISIG value (i.e., without using EIS). The details of the data for the study are presented
below:

                                                 76
(1) SG based on Ferrari 1.0 Alg for 88% distributed layout with high current density (nominal)
                                               plating
                                              Mean-ARD Percentage
      Day              1         2          3           4         5       6       7 Total
      040-080     19.39      17.06                 22.27     17.50   37.57    11.43    19.69
      080-120     19.69     0918       09.34       08.64     10.01   08.31    11.33     11.56
      120-240     19.01      17.46      12.44      07.97     11.75   08.82    12.15     12.92
      240-400                10.25     08.36       14.09     10.86    12.84  22.70     12.88
      Total       19.52      11.71     10.14      09.30      10.83   09.49    11.89    12.28
                                      Mean-Absolute Bias (sg-bg)
      Day              1         2          3           4         5       6       7 Total
      040-080     14.86      11.78                 15.81     11.07   29.00   07.26     14.05
      080-120     19.53     09.37      09.49      08.78      09.88   08.44    11.61    11.62
      120-240     30.04     29.73      19.34       14.45     18.25    12.66   18.89    20.60
      240-400               26.75      22.23      39.82      29.00   33.00   61.36     35.19
      Total       21.62     15.20      12.79       13.21     12.04    10.84  15.04     14.79
                                       Mean-Signed Bias (sg-bg)
      Day              1         2          3          4         5        6       7 Total
      040-080     12.15     09.78                  15.81     11.07   29.00   07.26     13.01
      080-120    -04.45    -04.92     -00.90      00.18      01.21   00.85   00.03    -01.44
      120-240   -10.18     -27.00     -16.89     -02.91     -05.40  -01.24  -11.58    -10.71
      240-400               11.25      02.23     -00.07     -27.00  -33.00  -61.36    -10.29
      Total     -04.81     -09.77     -05.09     -00.23     -00.22   00.67  -04.98    -03.56
                                              Eval Points
      Day             1          2          3          4         5        6       7 Total
      040-080      007        004        000        002        006     003     004        026
     080-120       090        064        055        055        067     056     047        434
      120-240      028        025        022        021        016     032     026        170
     240-400       000 1      002        004        008        003     001     002        020
     Total          125       095        081        086        092     092     079        650

                                                 77
(2) SG based on better ISIG using 1kHz EIS for 88% distributed layout with high current density
                                       (nominal) plating
                                             Mean-ARD Percentage
      Day               1         2        3           4          5       6       7  Total
      040-080      16.66      18.78               21.13      16.21    43.68   09.50      18.14
      080-120      16.22      11.96  08.79         10.49    09.75    08.04    10.34      11.36
      120-240      15.08      17.50   12.68       07.72     08.74     08.84   13.02      12.16
      240-400                07.66   06.42         11.10    07.52     15.95  21.13      09.84
      Total        15.96      13.70  09.92        09.95     09.96    09.40    11.31      11.83
                                    Mean-Absolute Bias (sg-bg)
      Day               1         2        3           4         5        6       7  Total
      040-080     12.71       13.00                15.00    10.17    33.50   06.00       12,83
      080-120     15.70       12.17  08.57         10.89    09.62    08.26    10.49      11.32
      120-240     24.43      29.82   19.43        13.79     14.60     12.97  20.27       19.58
      240-400                20.00   17.00        32.50     20.00    41.00   60.00      27.29
      Total       17.72      17.20   12.56        13.55     10.95     11.21   14.12      14.20
                                     Mean-Signed Bias (sg-bg)
      Day              1          2       3            4         5        6       7  Total
      040-080     08.71      13.00                15.00     10.17    33.50   06.00       11.67
      080-120    -04.30     -08.62  -01.11       -03.64     02.52    00.40  -01.56     -02.52
      120-240    -11.30     -29.64  -17.09       -08.74    -10.87   -07.23  -15.09     -14.05
      240-400                20.00   00.50        09.50   -17.33    -41.00  -60.00     -03.18
      Total      -05.30   | -12.56  -06.20       -03.63   -00.10    -02.29  -06.35     -05.21
                                             Eval Points
     Day               1          2       3            4         5        6       7  Total
     040-080        007        004     000          001       006      002     004         024
     080-120        082        053     044          045       058      043     041         366
      120-240       030        022     023          019       015      030     022         161
     240-400        000        002     004          006       003      001     001         017
     Total          119        081     071          071       082      076     068 1       568

                                                       78
  (3) SG based on higher ISIG for 88% distributed layout with high current density (nominal) plating
                                                    Mean-ARD Percentage
         Day              1          2            3          4           5       6       7 Total
         040-080      17.24      19.13                   21.13      17.31   43.68    10.38     18.79
         080-120      17.69      11.77       09.36       10.70      10.19   08.34    10.68     11.86
          120-240     16.80      17.63       13.04       07.38      09.04   08.52    13.25     12.50
         240-400                07.47        06.02       10.85      07.52    15.95  21.13     09.63
         Total       17.44       13.60       10.37       10.00      10.40   09.36    11.66     12.26
                                            Mean-Absolute Bias (sg-bg)
         Day              1          2            3          4           5       6       7 Total
         040-080     13.14      13.25                    15.00      11.00   33.50   06.50      13.29
         080-120     17.23      11.98        09.22       11.02      10.08   08.59   10.86     11.85
          120-240    27.40      30.09        19.75       13.26      14.93   12.45   20.65     20.09
         240-400                19.50        16.00       32.00      20.00   41.00   60.00     26.82
         Total       19.53      17.09        13.00       13.35      11.37   11.18   14.53     14.67
                                             Mean-Signed Bias (sg-bg)
         Day              1          2            3          4           5       6       7 Total
         040-080     08.29      12.75                    15.00      11.00   33.50   06.50     11.79
         080-120    -04.72     -08.83       -02.35      -01.56      01.75  -00.18  -01.52    -02.70
         120-240    -15.13     -29.73       -17.67      -08.42     -11.47  -07.03  -15.43    -14.86
         240-400                19.50        01.50       06.33     -17.33  -41.00  -60.00    -04.12
         Total      -06.57     -12.70       -07.11      -02.46     -00.63  -02.56  -06.47    -05.57
                                                    Eval Points
         Day              1          2            3          4          5        6       7 Total
         040-080       007        004          000        001         006     002     004        024
         080-120       083        054          046        048         060     044     042        377
         120-240       030        022         024         019         015     031     023        164
         240-400       000        002         004         006        003      001     001        017
         Total         120        082         074         074        084      078     070        582
 [00266]     With the above data, it was found that, with the first approach, the MARD (%) on
Day 1 was 19.52%, with an overall MARD of 12.28%. For the second approach, the Day-I
MARD was 15.96% and the overall MARD was 11.83%. Lastly, for the third approach, the
MARD was 17.44% on Day 1, and 12.26% overall. Thus, for this design with redundant
electrodes, it appears that calculation of SG based on the better ISIG using 1kHz EIS (i.e., the
second methodology) provides the greatest advantage. Specifically, the lower Day-1 MARD
may be attributable, e.g., to better low start-up detection using EIS. In addition, the overall
MARD percentages are more than 1% lower than the overall average MARD of 13.5% for
WEI and WE2 in this study.             It is noted that, in the above-mentioned approaches, data
transitions may be handled, e.g., by a filtering method to minimize the severity of the

                                                  79
 transitions, such as by using a low-pass filter 3480 as discussed above in connection with
 FIGS. 33A-35.
 [00267]      It bears repeating that sensor diagnostics, including, e.g., assessment of low start
 up, sensitivity-loss, and signal-dip events depends on various factors, including the sensor
 design, number of electrodes (i.e., redundancy), electrode distribution/configuration, etc. As
 such, the actual frequency, or range of frequencies, for which an EIS-based parameter may be
 substantially glucose-independent, and therefore, an independent marker, or predictor, for one
 or more of the above-mentioned failure modes may also depend on the specific sensor design.
 For example, while it has been discovered, as described hereinabove, that sensitivity loss may
be predicted using imaginary impedance at the relatively higher frequencies--where
 imaginary impedance is substantially glucose-independent--the level of glucose dependence,
and, therefore, the specific frequency range for using imaginary impedance as a marker for
 sensitivity loss, may shift (higher or lower) depending on the actual sensor design.
 [002681      More specifically, as sensor design moves more and more towards the use of
redundant working electrodes, the latter must be of increasingly smaller sizes in order to
maintain the overall size of the sensor.        The size of the electrodes, in turn, affects the
frequencies that may be queried for specific diagnostics. In this regard, it is important to note
that the fusion algorithms described herein and shown in FIGs. 33A - 35 are to be regarded as
illustrative, and not limiting, as each algorithm can be modified as necessary to use EIS-based
parameters at frequencies that exhibit the least amount of glucose dependence, based on the
type of sensor under analysis.
 [00269]     In addition, experimental data indicates that human tissue structure may also
affect glucose dependence at different frequencies. For example, in children, real impedance
at 0.105Hz has been found to be a substantially glucose-independent indicator for low start
up detection.     It is believed that this comes about as a result of a child's tissue structure
changing, e.g., the Warburg impedance, which relates mostly to the resistive component. See
also the subsequent discussion relating to interferent detection.
[002701      Embodiments of the invention herein are also directed to the use of EIS in
optimizing sensor calibration. By way of background, in current methodologies, the slope of
a BG vs. Isig plot, which may be used to calibrate subsequent Isig values, is calculated as
follows:

                                                  80
                                             s a4(isig - offset) bg
                                     slope=
                                               Z af(isig - offset) 2
 where a is an exponential function of a time constant,        p is a function of blood glucose
 variance, and offset is a constant. For a sensor in steady condition, this method provides
 fairly accurate results.   As shown, e.g., in FIG. 36, BG and Isig follow a fairly linear
 relationship, and offset can be taken as a constant.
 [00271]     However, there are situations in which the above-mentioned linear relationship
 does not hold true, such as, e.g., during periods in which the sensor experiences a transition.
 As shown in FIG. 37, it is clear that Isig-BG pairs 1 and 2 are significantly different from
 pairs 3 and 4 in terms of Isig and BG relationship. For these types of conditions, use of a
 constant offset tends to produce inaccurate results.
 [002721     To address this issue, one embodiment of the invention is directed to the use of an
 EIS-based dynamic offset, where EIS measurements are used to define a sensor status vector
as follows:
          V = {real-imp_1K, img-imp_1K, Nyquist-slope, NyquistR _square)
where all of the elements in the vector are substantially BG independent. It is noted that
NyquistR-square is the R square of linear regression used to calculate the Nyquist slope,
i.e., the square of the correlation coefficient between real and imaginary impedances at
relatively-lower    frequencies,   and a low R square indicates abnormality in sensor
performance. For each Isig-BG pair, a status vector is assigned. If a significant difference in
status vector is detected--e.g., IV2 - V31 for the example shown in FIG. 37--a different offset
value is assigned for 3 and 4 when compared to I and 2. Thus, by using this dynamic offset
approach, it is possible to maintain a linear relationship between Isig and BG,
[00273]     In a second embodiment, an EIS-based segmentation approach may be used for
calibration. Using the example of FIG. 37 and the vector V, it can be determined that sensor
state during 1 and 2 is signficantly different from sensor state during 3 and 4. Therefore, the
calibration buffer can be divided into two segments, as follows:
                        Isigbufferl = [Isigl, Isig2]; BGbuffer1 = [BG1, BG2]
                        Isigbuffer2 = [Isig3, Isig3]; BGbuffer2 = [BG3, BG3]

                                                  81
 Thus, when the sensor operates during 1 and 2, Isigbuffer1 and BGbufferl would be used
 for calibration. However, when the sensor operates during 3 and 4, i.e., during a transition
 period, Isigbuffer2 and BG buffer2 would be used for calibration.
 [00274]     In yet another embodiment, an EIS-based dynamic slope approach, where EIS is
 used to adjust slope, may be used for calibration purposes. FIG. 38A shows an example of
how this method can be used to improve sensor accuracy. In this diagram, the data points 1-4
 are discrete blood glucose values. As can be seen from FIG. 38A, there is a sensor dip 3810
between data points 1 and 3, which dip can be detected using the sensor state vector V
 described above. During the dip, slope can be adjusted upward to reduce the underreading, as
shown by reference numeral 3820 in FIG. 38A.
 [002751     In a further embodiment, EIS diagnostics may be used to determine the timing of
sensor calibrations, which is quite useful for, e.g, low-startup events, sensitivity-loss events,
and other similar situations.      As is known, most current methodologies require regular
calibrations based on a pre-set schedule, e.g., 4 times per day.        Using EIS diagnostics,
however, calibrations become event-driven, such that they may be performed only as often as
necessary, and when they would be most productive. Here, again, the status vector V may be
used to determine when the sensor state has changed, and to request calibration if it has,
indeed, changed.
[00276]      More specifically, in an illustrative example, FIG. 38B shows a flowchart for EIS
assisted sensor calibration involving low start-up detection. Using Nyquist slope, 1kHz real
impdance, and a bound check 3850 (see, e.g., the previously-described bound check and
associated threshold values for EIS-based parameters in connection with the fusion
algorithms of FIGS. 33A-35), a reliability index 3853 can be developed for start-up, such
that, when the 1kHz real impedance 3851 and the Nyquist slope 3852 are lower than their
corresponding upper bounds, RIlstartup = 1, and sensor is ready for calibration. In other
words, the reliability index 3853 is "high" (3854), and the logic can proceed to calibration at
3860.
[002771      When, on the other hand, the 1kHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope are
higher than their corresponding upper bounds (or threshold values), RI startup      = 0 (i.e., it is
"low"), and the sensor is not ready for calibration (3856), i.e., a low start-up issue may exist.
Here, the trend of 1kHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope can be used to predict when

                                                   82
 both parameters will be in range (3870). If it is estimated that this will only take a very short
  amount of time (e.g., less than one hour), then the algorithm waits until the sensor is ready,
 i.e., until the above-mentioned EIS-based parameters are in-bound (3874), at which point the
 algorithm proceeds to calibration. If, however, the wait time would be relatively long (3876),
 then the sensor can be calibrated now, and then the slope or offset can be gradually adjusted
 according to the lkHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope trend (3880). It is noted that by
 performing the adjustment, serious over- or under-reading caused by low start-up can be
 avoided. As noted previously, the EIS-based parameters and related information that is used
 in the instant calibration algorithm is substantially glucose-independent.
 [002781       It is noted that, while the above description in connection with FIG. 38B shows a
 single working electrode, as well as the calculation of a reliability index for start-up of that
 working electrode, this is by way of illustration, and not limitation. Thus, in a redundant
 sensor including two or more working electrodes, a bound check can be performed, and a
 start-up reliability index calculated, for each of the plurality of (redundant) working
 electrodes. Then, based on the respective reliability indices, at least one working electrode
 can be identified that can proceed to obtain glucose measurements.          In other words, in a
 sensor having a single working electrode, if the latter exhibits low start-up, actual use of the
sensor (for measuring glucose) may have to be delayed until the low start-up period is over.
This period may typically be on the order of one hour or more, which is clearly
disadvantageous.        In contrast, in a redundant sensor, utilizing the methodology described
herein allows an adaptive, or "smart", start-up, wherein an electrode that can proceed to data
gathering can be identified in fairly short order, e.g., on the order of a few minutes. This, in
turn, reduces MARD, because low start-up generally provides about a V2% increase in
MARD.
[002791       In yet another embodiment, EIS can aid in the adjustment of the calibration buffer.
For existing calibration algorithms, the buffer size is always 4, i.e., 4 Isig-BG pairs, and the
weight is based upon a which, as noted previously, is an exponential function of a time
constant, and      0, which is a function of blood glucose variance.      Here, EIS can help to
determine when to flush the buffer, how to adjust buffer weight, and what the appropriate
buffer size is.
[00280]       Embodiments of the invention are also directed to the use of EIS for interferent
detection. Specifically, it may be desirable to provide a medication infusion set that includes

                                                   83
  a combination sensor and medication-infusion catheter, where the sensor is placed within the
  infusion catheter. In such a system, the physical location of the infusion catheter relative to
  the sensor may be of some concern, due primarily to the potential impact on (i.e., interference
  with) sensor signal that may be caused by the medication being infused and/or an inactive
  component thereof.
  [00281]      For example, the diluent used with insulin contains ni-cresol as a preservative. In
  in-vitro studies, m-cresol has been found to negatively impact a glucose sensor if insulin (and,
  therefore, ni-cresol) is being infused in close proximity to the sensor. Therefore, a system in
 which a sensor and an infusion catheter are to be combined in a single needle must be able to
  detect, and adjust for, the effect of m-cresol on the sensor signal. Since m-cresol affects the
 sensor signal, it would be preferable to have a means of detecting this interferent
 independently of the sensor signal itself.
  [00282]     Experiments have shown that the effect of m-cresol on the sensor signal is
 temporary and, thus, reversible. Nevertheless, when insulin infusion occurs too close to the
 sensor, the in-cresol tends to "poison" the electrode(s), such that the latter can no longer
 detect glucose, until the insulin (and n-cresol) have been absorbed into the patient's tissue.
 In this regard, it has been found that there is typically about a 40-minute time period between
 initiation of insulin infusion and when the sensor has re-gained the ability to detect glucose
 again.    However, advantageously, it has also been discovered that, during the same time
period, there is a large increase in 1 kHz impedance magnitude quite independently of the
 glucose concentration.
 [002831      Specifically, FIG. 39 shows Isig and impedance data for an in-vitro experiment,
wherein the sensor was placed in a 100 mg/dL glucose solution, and 1kHz impedance was
measured every 10 minutes, as shown by encircled data points 3920. tn-cresol was then
added to bring the solution to 0.35% m-cresol (3930). As can be seen, once rn-cresol has
been added, the Isig 3940 initially increases dramatically, and then begins to drift down. The
concentration of glucose in the solution was then doubled, by adding an addition 100 mg/dL
glucose. This, however, had no effect on the Isig 3940, as the electrode was unable to detect
the glucose.
[002841       On the other hand, the m-cresol had a dramatic effect on both impedance
magnitude and phase. FIG. 40A shows a Bode plot for the phase, and FIG. 40B shows a

                                                84
 Bode plot for impedance magnitude, for both before and after the addition of m-cresol. As
 can be seen, after the m-cresol was added, the impedance magnitude 4010 increased from its
post-initialization value 4020 by at least an order of magnitude across the frequency
 spectrum. At the same time, the phase 4030 changed completely as compared to its post
initialization value 4040. On the Nyquist plot of FIG. 40C. Here, the pre-initialization curve
 4050 and the post-initialization curve 4060 appear as expected for a normally-functioning
 sensor.    However, after the addition of m-cresol, the curve 4070 becomes drastically
 different.
 [00285]     The above experiment identifies an important practical pitfall of continuing to rely
on the Isig after n-cresol has been added.         Referring back to FIG. 39, a patient/user
monitoring the sensor signal may be put under the mistaken impression that his glucose level
has just spiked, and that he should administer a bolus. The user then administers the bolus, at
which the Isig has already started to drift back down. In other words, to the patient/user,
everything may look normal. In reality, however, what has really happened is that the patient
just administered an unneeded dose of insulin which, depending on the patient's glucose level
prior to administration of the bolus, may put the patient at risk of experiencing a
hypoglycemic event.        This scenario reinforces the desirability of a means of detecting
interferents that is as glucose-independent as possible,
 [00286]     FIG. 41 shows another experiment, where a sensor was initialized a 100 mg/dL
glucose solution, after which glucose was raised to 400 mg/dL for one hour, and then
returned to 100 mg/dL. m-cresol was then added to raise the concentration to 0.3 5%, with the
sensor remaining in this solution for 20 minutes. Finally, the sensor was placed in a 100
mg/dL glucose solution to allow Isig to recover after exposure to m-cresol. As can be seen,
after initialization, the 1kHz impedance magnitude 4110 was at about 2kOhms. When m
cresot was added, the Isig 4120 spiked, as did impedance magnitude 4110. Moreover, when
the sensor was returned to a 100 md/dL glucose solution, the impedance magnitude 4110 also
returned to near normal level.
[00287]      As can be seen from the above experiments, EIS can be used to detect the
presence of an interfering agent--in this case, m-cresol.    Specifically, since the interferent
affects the sensor in such a way as to increase the impedance magnitude across the entire
frequency spectrum, the impedance magnitude may be used to detect the interference. Once
the interference has been detected, either the sensor operating voltage can be changed to a

                                                  85
  point where the interferent is not measured, or data reporting can be temporarily suspended,
  with the sensor indicating to the patient/user that, due to the administration of medication, the
  sensor is unable to report data (until the measured impedance returns to the pre-infusion
  level). It is noted that, since the impact of the interferent is due to the preservative that is
  contained in insulin, the impedance magnitude will exhibit the same behavior as described
  above regardless of whether the insulin being infused is fast-acting or slow.
  [00288]     Importantly, as mentioned above, the impedance magnitude, and certainty the
 magnitude at 1kHz, is substantially glucose-independent. With reference to FIG. 41, it can be
 seen that, as the concentration of glucose is raised from 100 mg/dL to 400 mg/dL--a four-fold
 increase--the IkHz impedance magnitude increase from about 2000 Ohms to about 2200
 Ohms, or about a 10% increase. In other words, the effect of glucose on the impedance
 magnitude measurement appears to be about an order of magnitude smaller compared to the
 measured impedance. This level of "signal-to-noise" ratio is typically small enough to allow
 the noise (i.e., the glucose effect) to be filtered out, such that the resultant impedance
 magnitude is substantially glucose-independent. In addition, it should be emphasized that the
 impedance magnitude exhibits an even higher degree of glucose-independence in actual
 human tissue, as compared to the buffer solution that was used for the in-vitro experiments
 described above.
 [002891     Embodiments of the invention are also directed to an Analog Front End Integrated
 Circuit (AFE IC), which is a custom Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) that
provides the necessary analog electronics to: (i) support multiple potentiostats and interface
with multi-terminal glucose sensors based on either Oxygen or Peroxide; (ii) interface with a
microcontroller so as to form a micropower sensor system; and (iii) implement EIS
diagnostics, fusion algorithms, and other EIS-based processes based on measurement of EIS
based parameters. More specifically, the ASIC incorporates diagnostic capability to measure
the real and imaginary impedance parameters of the sensor over a wide range of frequencies,
as well as digital interface circuitry to enable bidirectional communication with a
microprocessor chip.      Moreover, the ASIC includes power control circuitry that enables
operation at very low standby and operating power, and a real-time clock and a crystal
oscillator so that an external microprocessor's power can be turned off.

                                                  86
[002901     FIG. 42 shows a block diagram of the ASIC, and Table 1 below provides pad
signal descriptions (shown on the left-hand side of FIG. 42), with some signals being
multiplexed onto a single pad.
                         Table 1: Pad signal descriptions
     Pad Name       Functional Description                                          Power plane
       VBAT         Battery power input 2.OV to 4.5V                                  VBAT
      VDDBU         Backup logic power 1.4 to 2.4V                                   VDDBU
        VDD         Logic power - 1.6 - 2.4V                                           VDD
       VDDA        Analog power - 1.6 - 2.4V                                          VDDA
       VPAD         Pad 1/O power --1.8V - 3.3V                                       VPAD
        VSS         Logic ground return and digital pad return
       VSSA        Analog ground return and analog pad return
   ADC IN1, 2      ADC Inputs, VDDA max input                                         VDDA
       V1P2B        1.2 volt reference Bypass capacitor                               VDDA
                    External VDD regulator control signal. Goes low when battery is
    nSHUTDN        low.                                                               VBAT
                   Goes high when VPAD 1Os are active. Can control external
    VPAD EN        regulator.                                                         VBAT
       DA1, 2      DAC outputs                                                        VDDA
  TP ANA MUX       Mux of analog test port - output or input                          VDDA
      TP RES       External 1 meg ohm calibration resistor & analog test port         VDDA
     WORK1-5       Working Electrodes of Sensor                                       VDDA
        RE         Reference Electrode of Sensor                                      VDDA
    COUNTER        Counter Electrode of Sensor                                        VDDA
     CMPi1IN       General purpose Voltage comparator                                 VDDA
     CMP2 IN       General purpose Voltage comparator                                 VDDA
     WAKEUP        Debounced interrupt input                                          VBAT
  XTALI, XTALO     32.768kHz Crystal Oscillator pads                                  VDDA
  OSC BYPASS       Test clock control                                                 VDDA
 SEN CONN SW       Sensor connection switch input. Pulled to VSSA=connection          VDDA
    VPAD EN        Enable the VPAD power and VPAD power plane logic                   VBAT
   nRESET OD       Signal to reset external circuitry such as a microprocessor
      SPI_CK,
     nSPICS,
    SPIMOIS
    ,SP MISO       SPI interface signals to microprocessor                            VPAD
  UP WAKEUP        Microprocessor wakeup signal                                       VPAD
   CLK 32KHZ       Gated Clock output to external circuitry microprocessor            VPAD
      UP INT       Interrupt signal to microprocessor                                 VPAD
   nPOR1 OUT       Backup Power on reset, output from analog                          VBAT
                   VBAT power plane reset, input to digital in battery plane
    nPOR1 IN       (VDDBU)                                                            VBAT
   nPOR2 OUT       VDD POR signal, output from analog                                  VDD
                   VDD POR signal open drain (nfet out only), stretched output
nPOR2 OUT OD       from digital                                                       VBAT
                   VDD power plane logic reset. Is level shifted to VDD inside the
    nPOR2IN        chip, input to digital VDD logic.                                   VDD

                                                  87
   [002911    The ASIC will now be described with reference to FIG. 42 and Table 1.
   [00292]     Power Planes
   [00293]    The ASIC has one power plane that is powered by the supply pad VBAT (4210),
  which has an operating input range from 2.0 volts to 4.5 volts. This power plane has a
  regulator to lower the voltage for some circuits in this plane. The supply is called VDDBU
  (4212) and has an output pad for test and bypassing.        The circuits on the VBAT supply
  include an RC oscillator, real time clock (RC osc) 4214, battery protection circuit, regulator
  control, power on reset circuit (POR), and various inputs/outputs. The pads on the VBAT
  power plane are configured to draw less than 75nA at 40'C and VBAT=3.50V.
  [002941     The ASIC also has a VDD supply to supply logic. The VDD supply voltage range
  is programmable from at least 1.6 volts to 2.4 volts. The circuits on the VDD power plane
  include most of the digital logic, timer (32khz), and real time clock (32khz).      The VDD
 supply plane includes level shifters interfacing to the other voltage planes as necessary. The
 level shifters, in turn, have interfaces conditioned so that any powered power plane does not
 have an increase in current greater than 1OnA if another power plane is unpowered.
 [002951     The ASIC includes an onboard regulator (with shutdown control) and an option
 for an external VDD source. The regulator input is a separate pad, REG VDDIN (4216),
 which has electrostatic discharge (ESD) protection in common with other I/Os on VBAT.
 The onboard regulator has an output pad, REGVDD OUT (4217). The ASIC also has an
 input pad for the VDD, which is separate from the REG_VDD_OUT pad.
 [002961     The ASIC includes an analog power plane, called VDDA (4218), which is
powered by either the VDD onboard regulator or an external source, and is normally supplied
by a filtered VDD. The VDDA supplied circuits are configured to operate within 0.1 volt of
VDD, thereby obviating the need for level shifting between the VDDA and VDD power
planes.    The VDDA supply powers the sensor analog circuits, the analog measurement
circuits, as well as any other noise-sensitive circuitry.
[002971      The ASIC includes a pad supply, VPAD, for designated digital interface signals.
The pad supply has an operating voltage range from at least 1.8 V to 3.3 V. These pads have
separate supply pad(s) and are powered from an external source. The pads also incorporate
level shifters to other onboard circuits to allow the flexible pad power supply range

                                                88
  independently of the VDD logic supply voltage. The ASIC can condition the VPAD pad ring
  signals such that, when the VPAD supply is not enabled, other supply currents will not
  increase by more than 1OnA.
  [00298]    Bias Generator
  [002991    The ASIC has a bias generator circuit, BIAS_GEN (4220), which is supplied from
 the VBAT power, and which generates bias currents that are stable with supply voltage for
 the system. The output currents have the following specifications: (i) Supply sensitivity : <
  2.5% from a supply voltage of 1.6v to 4.5V; and (ii) Current accuracy : < 3% after
 trimming.
  [003001    The BIASGEN circuit generates switched and unswitched output currents to
 supply circuits needing a bias current for operation.     The operating current drain of the
 BIASGEN circuit is less than 0.3uA at 25 'C with VBAT from 2.5V - 4.5V (excluding any
 bias output currents).   Lastly, the temperature coefficient of the bias current is generally
 between 4,000ppm/C and 6,000ppm/C.
 [00301]     Voltage Reference
 [003021     The ASIC, as described herein is configured to have a low power voltage
reference, which is powered from the VBAT power supply. The voltage reference has an
enable input which can accept a signal from logic powered by VBAT or VDDBU. The ASIC
is designed such that the enable signal does not cause any increase in current in excess of
 1OnA from any supply from this signal interface when VBAT is powered.
[003031     The reference voltage has the following specifications: (i) Output voltage: 1.220
3 mV after trimming; (ii) Supply sensitivity: <  6mV from 1.6 V to 4.5V input; (iii)
Temperature sensitivity: <  5 mV from 0' C to 60 'C; and (iv) Output voltage default
accuracy (without trim): 1.220 V  50mV. In addition, the supply current is to be less than
800nA at 4.5V, 40'C. In this embodiment, the reference output will be forced to VSSA when
the reference is disabled so as to keep the VDD voltage regulator from overshooting to levels
beyond the breakdown voltage of the logic.
[003041     32 kHz Oscillator

                                                89
  [00305]     The ASIC includes a low power 32.768 kHz crystal oscillator 4222 which is
 powered with power derived from the VDDA supply and can trim the capacitance of the
 crystal oscillator pads (XTALI, XTALO) with software. Specifically, the frequency trim
 range is at least -50ppm to +1l00ppm with a step size of 2ppm max throughout the trim range.
 Here, a crystal may be assumed with a load capacitance of 7pF, Ls=6.9512kH, Cs=3.3952fF,
 Rs=70k, shunt capacitance=lpF, and a PC Board parasitic capacitance of 2pF on each crystal
 terminal.
 [003061     The ASIC has a VPAD level output available on a pad, CLK 32kHZ, where the
output can be disabled under software and logic control. The default is driving the 32kHz
oscillator out. An input pin, OSC32KBYPASS (4224), can disable the 32kHz oscillator (no
power drain) and allows for digital input to the XTALI pad. The circuits associated with this
function are configured so as not add any ASIC current in excess of lOnA in either state of
the OSC32KBYPASS signal other than the oscillator current when OSC32KBYPASS is
low.
 [003071     The 32kHZ oscillator is required to always be operational when the VDDA plane
is powered, except for the bypass condition. If the OSC32KBYPASS is true, the 32KHZ
oscillator analog circuitry is put into a low power state, and the XTALI pad is configured to
accept a digital input whose level is from 0 to VDDA. It is noted that the 32kHz oscillator
output has a duty cycle between 40% and 60%.
[003081      Timer
[003091      The ASIC includes a Timer 4226 that is clocked from the 32kHz oscillator
divided by 2. It is pre-settable and has two programmable timeouts. It has 24 programmable
bits giving a total time count to 17 minutes, 4 seconds. The Timer also has a programmable
delay to disable the clock to the CLK_32KHz pad and set the microprocessor (uP) interface
signals on the VPAD plane to a predetermined state (See section below on Microprocessor
Wakeup Control Signals).       This will allow the microprocessor to go into suspend mode
without an external clock.      However, this function may be disabled by software with a
programmable bit.
[00310]     The Timer also includes a programmable delay to wakeup the microprocessor by
enabling the CLK_32KHZ clock output and setting UPWAKEUP high. A transition of the
POR2 (VDD POR) from supply low state to supply OK state will enable the 32kHz

                                                90
 oscillator, the CLK_32KHZ clock output and set UPWAKEUP high. The power shutdown
 and power up are configured to be controlled with programmable control bits.
 [00311]      Real Time Clock (RTC)
 [003121      The ASIC also has a 48 bit readable/writeable binary counter that operates from
 the ungated, free running 32kHz oscillator. The write to the real time clock 4228 requires a
write to an address with a key before the clock can be written. The write access to the clock
 is configured to terminate between 1 msec and 20 msec after the write to the key address.
 [003131      The real time clock 4228 is configured to be reset by a power on reset either by
 PORIIN (the VBAT POR) or POR2_IN (the VDD POR) to half count (MSB=1, all other
bits 0). In embodiments of the invention, the real time clock has programmable interrupt
 capability, and is designed to be robust against single event upsets (SEUs), which may be
accomplished either by layout techniques or by adding capacitance to appropriate nodes, if
required.
 [00314]      RC Oscillator
 [003151      The ASIC further includes an RC clock powered from the VBAT supply or
VBAT derived supply. The RC Oscillator is always running, except that the oscillator can be
bypassed by writing to a register bit in analog test mode (see section on Digital Testing) and
applying a signal to the GPIOVBAT with a 0 to VBAT level. The RC oscillator is not
trimmable, and includes the following specifications: (i) a frequency between 750 Hz and
1500Hz; (ii) a duty cycle between 50%  10%; (iii) current consumption of less than 200nA
at 25 0 C; (iv) frequency change of less than  2% from 1V to 4.5V VBAT supply and better
than 1% from 1.8V to 4.5V VBAT supply; and (v) frequency change of less than + 2, -2%
from a temperature of 15 'C to 40 'C with VBAT=3.5V. The RC frequency can be measured
with the 32kHz crystal oscillator or with an external frequency source (See Oscillator
Calibration Circuit).
[00316]      Real Time RC Clock (RC oscillator based)
[003171      The ASIC includes a 48 bit readable/writeable binary ripple counter based on the
RC oscillator. A write to the RC real time clock requires a write to an address with a key
before the clock can be written. The write access to the clock terminates between 1 msec and

                                                91
  20 msec after the write to the key address, wherein the time for the protection window is
  configured to be generated with the RC clock.
  [00318]    The real time RC clock allows for a relative time stamp if the crystal oscillator is
 shutdown, and is configured to be reset on PORIIN (the BAT POR) to half count (MSB=1,
 all others 0). The real time RC clock is designed to be robust against single event upsets
 (SEUs) either by layout techniques or by adding capacitance to appropriate nodes, where
 required. On the falling edge of POR2_IN, or if the ASIC goes into Battery Low state, the
 RT real time clock value may be captured into a register that can be read via the SPI port.
 This register and associated logic are on the VBAT or VDDBU power plane.
 [00319]     Battery Protection Circuit
 [00320]     The ASIC includes a battery protection circuit 4230 that uses a comparator to
 monitor the battery voltage and is powered with power derived from the VBAT power plane.
 The battery protection circuit is configured to be always running with power applied to the
VBAT supply. The battery protection circuit may use the RC oscillator for clocking signals,
and have an average current drain that is less than 30nA, including a 3MOhm total resistance
external voltage divider.
 [003211    The battery protection circuit uses an external switched voltage divider having a
ratio of .421 for a 2.90V battery threshold. The ASIC also has an internal voltage divider
with the ratio of .421 0.5%. This divider is connected between BATTDIVEN (4232) and
VSSA (4234), and the divider output is a pin called BATT_DIVINT (4236). To save pins in
the packaged part, the BATTDIVINT in this embodiment is connected to BATTDIV
internally in the package. Also in this configuration, BATTDIVEN does not need to come
out of the package, saving two package pins.
[003221     The battery protection circuit is configured to sample the voltage on an input pin,
BATT-DIV (4238), at approximately 2 times per second, wherein the sample time is
generated from the RC Oscillator. The ASIC is able to adjust the divider of the RC Oscillator
to adjust the sampling time interval to .500 see  5msec with the RC oscillator operating
within its operating tolerance. In a preferred embodiment, the ASIC has a test mode which
allows more frequent sampling intervals during test.

                                                 92
   [003231    The comparator input is configured to accept an input from 0 to VBAT volts. The
  input current to the comparator input, BATT DIV, is less than 1OnA for inputs from 0 to
  VBAT volts. The comparator sampling circuit outputs to a pad, BATT_DIV_EN, a positive
  pulse which can be used by external circuitry to enable an off-chip resistor divider only
  during the sampling time to save power. The voltage high logic level is the VBAT voltage
  and the low level is VSS level.
  [003241     The output resistance of the BATTDIV EN pad shall be less than 2kOhms at
  VBAT=3.OV. This allows the voltage divider to be driven directly from this output. After a
 programmable number of consecutive samples indicating a low battery condition, the
 comparator control circuitry triggers an interrupt to the interrupt output pad, UPINT. The
 default number of samples is 4, although the number of consecutive samples is programmable
 from 4 to 120.
  [00325]    After a programmable number of consecutive samples indicating a low battery
 after the generation of the UPINT above, the comparator control circuitry is configured to
 generate signals that will put the ASIC into a low power mode: The VDD regulator will be
 disabled and a low signal will be asserted to the pad, VPADEN. This will be called the
 Battery Low state. Again, the number of consecutive samples is programmable from 4 to 120
 samples, with the default being 4 samples.
 [00326]     The comparator has individual programmable thresholds for falling and rising
voltages on BATTDIV. This is implemented in the digital logic to multiplex the two values
to the circuit depending on the state of the Battery Low state. Thus, if Battery Low state is
low, the falling threshold applies, and if the Battery Low state is high, the rising threshold
applies.    Specifically, the comparator has 16 programmable thresholds from 1.22 to 1.645
+3%, wherein the DNL of the programmable thresholds is set to be less than 0.2 LSB.
[00327]      The comparator threshold varies less than +/-1 % from 20'C to 40'C. The default
threshold for falling voltage is 1.44V (VBAT threshold of 3.41V with nominal voltage
divider), and the default threshold for rising voltage is 1.53V (VBAT threshold of 3.63V with
nominal voltage divider). After the ASIC has been put into the Battery Low state, if the
comparator senses 4 consecutive indications of battery OK, then the ASIC will initiate the
microprocessor startup sequence.
[003281      Battery Power Plane Power On Reset

                                                93
  [003291     A power on reset (POR) output is generated on pad nPOR1_OUT (4240) if the
  input VBAT slews more than 1.2 volt in a 50usec period or if the VBAT voltage is below 1.6
   .3 volts. This POR is stretched to a minimum pulse width of 5 milliseconds. The output of
  the POR circuit is configured to be active low and go to a pad, nPORlOUT, on the VBAT
 power plane.
  [00330]     The IC has an input pad for the battery power plane POR, nPOR1_lN (4242).
 This input pad has RC filtering such that pulses shorter than 50nsec will not cause a reset to
 the logic. In this embodiment, nPOR1_OUT is externally connected to the nPOR1 IN in
 normal operation, thereby separating the analog circuitry from the digital circuitry for testing.
 The nPOR1 IN causes a reset of all logic on any of the power planes, and initializes all
 registers to their default value. Thus, the reset status register POR bit is set, and all other
 reset status register bits are cleared.   The POR reset circuitry is configured so as not to
 consume more than 0. luA from VBAT supply for time greater than 5 seconds after power up.
 [00331]      VDD Power On Reset (POR)
 [00332]      The ASIC also has a voltage comparator circuit which generates a VDD voltage
 plane reset signal upon power up, or if the VDD drops below a programmable threshold. The
range is programmable with several voltage thresholds.         The default value is 1.8V-15%
 (1.53V). The POR2 has a programmable threshold for rising voltage, which implements
 hysteresis. The rising threshold is also programmable, with a default value of 1.60V t3%.
 [003331      The POR signal is active low and has an output pad, nPOR2_OUT (4244), on the
VDD power plane.           The ASIC also has an active low POR open drain output,
nPOR2_OUT _OD (4246), on the VBAT power plane. This could be used for applying POR
to other system components.
 [003341     The VDD powered logic has POR derived from the input pad, nPOR2_IN (4248).
The nPOR2_IN pad is on the VDD power plane, and has RC filtering such that pulses shorter
than 50nsec will not cause a reset to the logic. The nPOR2_OUT is configured be externally
connected to the nPOR2_IN input pad under normal usage, thereby separating the analog
circuitry from the digital circuitry.
[00335]      The reset which is generated is stretched to at least 700msec of active time after
VDD goes above the programmable threshold to assure that the crystal oscillator is stable.

                                                94
 The POR reset circuitry is to consume no more than 0.1uA from the VDD supply for time
 greater than 5 seconds after power up, and no more than 0.luA from VBAT supply for time
 greater than 5 seconds after power up. The register that stores the POR threshold value is
 powered from the VDD power plane.
 [00336]      Sensor Interface Electronics
 [00337]     In an embodiment of the invention, the sensor circuitry supports up to five sensor
 WORK electrodes (4310) in any combination of peroxide or oxygen sensors, although, in
 additional embodiments, a larger number of such electrodes may also be accommodated.
 While the peroxide sensor WORK electrodes source current, the oxygen sensor WORK
 electrodes sink current. For the instant embodiment, the sensors can be configured in the
potentiostat configuration as shown in FIG. 43.
 [00338]     The sensor electronics have programmable power controls for each electrode
 interface circuit to minimize current drain by turning off current to unused sensor electronics.
The sensor electronics also include electronics to drive a COUNTER electrode 4320 that uses
feedback from a RE (reference) electrode 4330.          The current to this circuitry may be
programmed off when not in use to conserve power.           The interface electronics include a
multiplexer 4250 so that the COUNTER and RE electrodes may be connected to any of the
(redundant) WORK electrodes.
 [00339]     The ASIC is configured to provide the following Sensor Interfaces: (i) RE:
Reference electrode, which establishes a reference potential of the solution for the electronics
for setting the WORK voltages; (ii) WORKI - WORK5: Working sensor electrodes where
desired reduction/oxidation (redox) reactions take place; and (iii) COUNTER: Output from
this pad maintains a known voltage on the RE electrode relative to the system VSS. In this
embodiment of the invention, the ASIC is configured so as to be able to individually set the
WORK voltages for up to 5 WORK electrodes with a resolution and accuracy of better than
or equal to 5 mV.
[00340]      The WORK voltage(s) are programmable between at least 0 and 1.22V relative to
VSSA in the oxygen mode.        In the peroxide mode, the WORK voltage(s) are programmable
between at least 0.6 volt and 2.054 volts relative to VSSA. If the VDDA is less than 2.15V,
the WORK voltage is operational to VDDA -0. lV.          The ASIC includes current measuring
circuits to measure the WORK electrode currents in the peroxide sensor mode. This may be

                                                95
   implemented, e.g., with current-to-voltage or current-to-frequency converters, which may
  have the following specifications: (i) Current Range: 0 - 300nA; (ii) Voltage output range:
   Same as WORK electrode in peroxide/oxygen mode; (iii) Output offset voltage:  5mV max;
  and (iv) Uncalibrated resolution: .25nA.
   [00341]    Current Measurement Accuracy after applying a calibration factor to the gain and
  assuming an acquisition time of 10 seconds or less is:
                                    5pA - lnA:    3%     20 pA
                                   InA - 1nA:      3%     20 pA
                                  lOnA - 300nA:     3%  .2 nA
  [003421     For current-to-frequency converters (ItoFs) only, the frequency range may be
 between 0Hz and 50kHz. The current converters must operate in the specified voltage range
 relative to VSS of WORK electrodes in the peroxide mode. Here, the current drain is less
 than 2uA from a 2.5V supply with WORK electrode current less than l0nA per converter
 including digital-to-analog (DAC) current.
 [00343]     The current converters can be enabled or disabled by software control.     When
 disabled, the WORK electrode will exhibit a very high impedance value, i.e., greater than
 10OMohm.      Again, for ItoFs only, the output of the I-to-F converters will go to 32 bit
 counters, which can be read, written to, and cleared by the microprocessor and test logic.
During a counter read, clocking of the counter is suspended to ensure an accurate read.
 [003441     In embodiments of the invention, the ASIC also includes current measuring
circuits to measure the WORK electrode currents in the oxygen sensor mode. The circuit
may be implemented as a current-to-voltage or a current-to-frequency converter, and a
programmable bit may be used to configure the current converters to operate in the oxygen
mode. As before, the current converters must operate in the specified voltage range of the
WORK electrodes relative to VSS in the oxygen mode. Here, again, the current range is
3.7pA - 300nA, the voltage output range is the same as WORK electrode in oxygen mode,
the output offset voltage is  5mV max, and the uncalibrated resolution is 3.7pA  2pA.

                                                 96
  [00345]     Current Measurement Accuracy after applying a calibration factor to the gain and
 assuming an acquisition time of 10 seconds or less is:
                                    5pA - lnA:      3%   20 pA
                                   1nA - l0nA:       3%   20 pA
                                  1OnA - 300nA : 3%+L.2 nA
 [003461     For current-to-frequency converters (ItoFs) only, the frequency range may be
 between 0Hz and 50kHz, and the current drain is less than 2uA from a 2.5V supply with
 WORK electrode current less than I OnA per converter, including DAC current. The current
 converters can be enabled or disabled by software control.        When disabled, the WORK
 electrode will exhibit a very high impedance value, i.e., greater than 10OMohm. Also, for
 Itols only, the output of the I-to-F converters will go to 32 bit counters, which can be read,
 written to, and cleared by the microprocessor and test logic. During a counter read, clocking
of the counter is suspended to ensure an accurate read.
 [00347]     In embodiments of the invention, the Reference electrode (RE) 4330 has an input
bias current of less than .05nA at 40'C. The COUNTER electrode adjusts its output to
maintain a desired voltage on the RE electrode. This is accomplished with an amplifier 4340
whose output to the COUNTER electrode 4320 attempts to minimize the difference between
the actual RE electrode voltage and the target RE voltage, the latter being set by a DAC.
[00348]       The RE set voltage is programmable between at least 0 and 1.80V, and the
common mode input range of the COUNTER amplifier includes at least .20 to (VDD-.20)V.
A register bit may be used to select the common mode input range, if necessary, and to
provide for programming the mode of operation of the COUNTER. The WORK voltage is
set with a resolution and accuracy of better than or equal to 5 mV. It is noted that, in the
normal mode, the COUNTER voltage seeks a level that maintains the RE voltage to the
programmed RE target value. In the force counter mode, however, the COUNTER electrode
voltage is forced to the programmed RE target voltage.
[003491      All electrode driving circuits are configured to be able to drive the electrode to
electrode load and be free from oscillation for any use scenario.          FIG. 44 shows the
equivalent ac inter-electrode circuit according to the embodiment of the invention with the
potentiostat configuration as shown in FIG. 43. The equivalent circuit shown in FIG. 44 may

                                                   97
   be between any of the electrodes, i.e., WORKl - WORK5, COUNTER and RE, with value
   ranges as follows for the respective circuit components:
                                        Ru  =  [200-5k] Ohms
                                         Cc  =  [ 10-2000 ] pF
                                        Rpo  = [I - 20 ] kOhms
                                     Rf   =  [200 - 2000 ] kOhms
                                          Cf =[2-30]uF
   [00350]     During initialization, the drive current for WORK electrodes and the COUNTER
  electrode need to supply higher currents than for the normal potentiostat operation described
  previously. As such, programmable register bits may be used to program the electrode drive
  circuits to a higher power state if necessary for extra drive. It is important to achieve low
  power operation in the normal potentiostat mode, where the electrode currents are typically
  less than 300nA.
  [003511     In preferred embodiments, during initialization, the WORKI through WORK5
 electrodes are programmable in steps equal to, or less than, 5mV from 0 to VDD volts, and
 their drive or sink current output capability is a minimum of 20uA, from .20V to (VDD
 .20V). Also during initialization, the ASIC is generally configured to be able to measure the
 current of one WORK electrode up to 20uA with an accuracy of  2%  40nA of the
 measurement value. Moreover, during initialization, the RE set voltage is programmable as
 described previously, the COUNTER DRIVE CIRCUIT output must be able to source or sink
 50uA minimum with the COUNTER electrode from .20V to (VDD-.20V), and the supply
 current (VDD and VDDA) to the initialization circuitry is required to be less than 50uA in
 excess of any output current sourced.
 [003521     Current Calibrator
 [00353]     In embodiments of the invention, the ASIC has a current reference that can be
steered to any WORK electrode for the purpose of calibration. In this regard, the calibrator
includes a programmable bit that causes the current output to sink current or source current.
The programmable currents include at least lOnA, 100nA, and 300nA, with an accuracy of
better than  1%  lnA, assuming a 0 tolerance external precision resistor. The calibrator
uses a I MegOhm precision resistor connected to the pad, TPRES (4260), for a reference
resistance.    In addition, the current reference can be steered to the COUNTER or RE

                                                 98
  electrodes for the purpose of initialization and/or sensor status. A constant current may be
  applied to the COUNTER or the RE electrodes and the electrode voltage may be measured
  with the ADC.
  [003541     High Speed RC Oscillator
  [003551     With reference back to FIG. 42, the ASIC further includes a high speed RC
  oscillator 4262 which supplies the analog-to-digital converter (ADC) 4264, the ADC
  sequencer 4266, and other digital functions requiring a higher speed clock than 32kHz. The
 high speed RC oscillator is phased locked to the 32kHz clock (32.768kHz) to give an output
 frequency programmable from 524.3kHz to 1048kHz.              In addition, the high speed RC
 oscillator has a duty cycle of 50%  10%, a phase jitter of less than .5% rms, a current of less
 than 1OuA, and a frequency that is stable through the VDD operating range (voltage range of
  1.6 to 2.5V). The default of the high speed RC oscillator is "off' (i.e., disabled), in which
 case the current draw is less than l0nA. However, the ASIC has a programmable bit to
 enable the High Speed RC oscillator.
 [00356]     Analog To Digital Converter
 [003571     The ASIC includes a 12-bit ADC (4264) with the following characteristics: (i)
 capability to effect a conversion in less than 1.5 msec with running from a 32kHz clock; (ii)
 ability to perform faster conversions when clocked from the high speed RC oscillator; (iii)
 have at least 10 bits of accuracy (12 bit  4 counts); (iv) have a reference voltage input of
 1.220V, with a temperature sensitivity of less than 0.2mV/0 C from 20'C to 40'C; (v) full
scale input ranges of 0 to 1.22V, 0 to 1.774V, 0 to 2.44V, and 0 - VDDA, wherein the 1.774
and 2.44V ranges have programmable bits to reduce the conversion range to lower values to
accommodate lower VDDA voltages; (vi) have current consumption of less than 50 uA from
its power supply; (vi) have a converter capable of operating from the 32kHz clock or the
High Speed RC clock; (vii) have a DNL of less than 1 LSB; and (viii) issue an interrupt at the
end of a conversion.
[003581      As shown in FIG. 42, the ASIC has an analog multiplexer 4268 at the input of the
ADC 4264, both of which are controllable by software. In a preferred embodiment, at least
the following signals are connected to the multiplexer:
                    (i)     VDD - Core Voltage and regulator output

                                                  99
                       (ii)   VBAT - Battery source
                      (iii)   VDDA - Analog supply
                      (iv)    RE - Reference Electrode of Sensor
                      (v)     COUNTER - Counter Electrode of Sensor
                      (vi)    WORK1 - WORK5 - Working Electrodes of Sensor
                      (vii)   Temperature sensor
                      (viii)  At least two external pin analog signal inputs
                      (ix)    EIS integrator outputs
                      (x)     ItoV current converter output.
 [00359]    The ASIC is configured such that the loading of the ADC will not exceed
 0.0 1nA for the inputs COUNTER, RE, WORKI - WORK5, the temperature sensor, and any
other input that would be adversely affected by loading. The multiplexer includes a divider
 for any inputs that have higher voltage than the input voltage range of the ADC, and a buffer
amplifier that will decrease the input resistance of the divided inputs to less than InA for load
sensitive inputs.   The buffer amplifier, in turn, has a common mode input range from at least
0.8V to VDDA voltage, and an offset less than 3mV from the input range from 0.8V to
VDDA-.1V.
[00360]     In a preferred embodiment, the ASIC has a mode where the ADC measurements
are taken in a programmed sequence. Thus, the ASIC includes a programmable sequencer
4266 that supervises the measurement of up to 8 input sources for ADC measurements with
the following programmable parameters:
                     (i)     ADC MUX input
                     (ii)    ADC range
                    (iii)    Delay time before measurement, wherein the delays are
                             programmable from 0 to 62msec in .488msec steps
                    (iv)     Number of measurements for each input from 0 to 255
                    (v)      Number of cycles of measurements: 0 - 255, wherein the cycle of
                             measurements refers to repeating the sequence of up to 8 input
                             measurements multiple times (e.g., as an outer loop in a program)
                    (vi)     Delay between cycles of measurement, wherein the delays are
                             programmable from 0 to 62msec in .488msec steps.

                                                  100
 [00361]    The sequencer 4266 is configured to start upon receiving an auto-measure start
command, and the measurements may be stored in the ASIC for retrieval over the SPI
interface. It is noted that the sequencer time base is programmable between the 32kHz clock
and the High Speed RC oscillator 4262.
 [003621    Sensor Diagnostics
 [00363]    As was previously described in detail, embodiments of the invention are directed
to use of impedance and impedance-related parameters in, e.g., sensor diagnostic procedures
and Isig/SG fusion algorithms. To that end, in preferred embodiments, the ASIC described
herein has the capability of measuring the impedance magnitude and phase angle of any
WORK sensor electrode to the RE and COUNTER electrode when in the potentiostat
configuration.    This is done, e.g., by measuring the amplitude and phase of the current
waveform in response to a sine-like waveform superimposed on the WORK electrode
voltage. See, e.g., Diagnostic Circuitry 4255 in FIG. 42.
[003641     The ASIC has the capability of measuring the resistive and capacitive components
of any electrode to any electrode via, e.g., the Electrode Multiplexer 4250. It is noted that
such measurements may interfere with the sensor equilibrium and may require settling time
or sensor initialization to record stable electrode currents. As discussed previously, although
the ASIC may be used for impedance measurements across a wide spectrum of frequencies,
for purposes of the embodiments of the invention, a relatively narrower frequency range may
be used.    Specifically, the ASIC's sine wave measurement capability may include test
frequencies from about 0.10Hz to about 8192Hz.             In making such measurements, the
minimum frequency resolution in accordance with an embodiment of the invention may be
limited as shown in Table 2 below:
                                                 Table 2
                                                            Min
                                            Frequency      step
                                                   [Hz]   [Hz]
                                                .1to15       <1
                                               16 to 31        1
                                              32 to 63         2
                                             64 to 127         4
                                            128 to 255         8
                                            256 to 511        16
                                           512 to 1023       32
                                          1024 to 2047       64
                                         2048 to 4095       128
                                         4096 to 8192       256

                                                101
  [00365]      The sinewave amplitude is programmable from at least 1OmVp-p to 50mVp-p in
 5mV steps, and from 60mVp-p to 1OOmVp-p in 1OmV steps. In a preferred embodiment, the
 amplitude accuracy is better than 5% or 5mV, whichever is larger. In addition, the ASIC
 may measure the electrode impedance with accuracies specified in Table 3 below:
                                              Table 3
      Frequency Range          Impedance Range             Impedance              Phase
                                                         Measurement           Measurement
                                                            Accuracy             Accuracy
           .1 - 10 Hz             2k to 1Megf2                5%                  0.50
          10 - 100 Hz               k to OOki2                5%                  0.50
       100 to 8000 Hz              .5k to 20kK2               5%                 1.00
 [00366]       In an embodiment of the invention, the ASIC can measure the input waveform
phase relative to a time base, which can be used in the impedance calculations to increase the
accuracy.       The ASIC may also have on-chip resistors to calibrate the above electrode
impedance circuit. The on-chip resistors, in turn, may be calibrated by comparing them to the
known I MegOhm off-chip precision resistor.
[00367]       Data sampling of the waveforms may also be used to determine the impedances.
The data may be transmitted to an external microprocessor with the serial peripheral interface
(SPI) for calculation and processing. The converted current data is sufficiently buffered to be
able to transfer 2000 ADC conversions of data to an external device through the SPI interface
without losing data. This assumes a latency time of 8 msec maximum for servicing a data
transfer request interrupt.
[00368]       In embodiments of the invention, rather than, or in addition to, measuring
electrode impedance with a sine wave, the ASIC may measure electrode current with a step
input. Here, the ASIC can supply programmable amplitude steps from 10 to 200 mV with
better than 5mV resolution to an electrode and sample (measure) the resulting current
waveform. The duration of the sampling may be programmable to at least 2 seconds in .25

                                                102
  second steps, and the sampling interval for measuring current may include at least five
  programmable binary weighted steps approximately .5msec to 8msec.
   [00369]    The resolution of the electrode voltage samples is smaller than lmV with a range
  up to  .25 volts. This measurement can be with respect to a suitable stable voltage in order
  to reduce the required dynamic range of the data conversion. Similarly, the resolution of the
  electrode current samples is smaller than .04uA with a range up to 20uA.           The current
  measurements can be unipolar if the measurement polarity is programmable.
  [003701     In embodiments of the invention, the current measurement may use an I-to-V
  converter.    Moreover, the ASIC may have on-chip resistors to calibrate the current
 measurement. The on-chip resistors, in turn, may be calibrated by comparing them to the
 known 1 MegOhm off-chip precision resistor. The current measurement sample accuracy is
 better than  3% or lOnA, whichever is greater. As before, the converted current data is
 sufficiently buffered to be able to transfer 2000 ADC conversions of data to an external
 device through the SPI interface without losing data. This assumes a latency time of 8 msec
 maximum for servicing a data transfer request interrupt.
 [003711     Calibration Voltage
 [00372]     The ASIC includes a precision voltage reference to calibrate the ADC. The output
voltage is 1.OOOV  3% with less than  1.5% variation in production, and stability is better
than  3mV over a temperature range of 20'C to 40'C. This precision calibration voltage
may be calibrated, via the on-chip ADC, by comparing it to an external precision voltage
during manufacture. In manufacturing, a calibration factor may be stored in a system non
volatile memory (not on this ASIC) to achieve higher accuracy.
 [003731     The current drain of the calibration voltage circuit is preferably less than 25uA.
Moreover, the calibration voltage circuit is able to power down to less thanlOnA to conserve
battery power when not in use.
[00374]      Temperature Sensor
[003751      The ASIC has a temperature transducer having a sensitivity between 9 and 11 mV
per degree Celsius between the range -10'C to 60'C. The output voltage of the Temperature
Sensor is such that the ADC can measure the temperature-related voltage with the 0 to 1.22V
ADC input range. The current drain of the Temperature Sensor is preferably less than 25uA,

                                              103
and the Temperature Sensor can power down to less than 1OnA to conserve battery power
when not in use.
[003761    VDD Voltage Regulator
[00377]    The ASIC has a VDD voltage regulator with the following characteristics:
                  (i)    Minimum input Voltage Range: 2.OV- 4.5V.
                  (ii)   Minimum output Voltage: 1.6 - 2.5V 5%, with a default of 2.OV.
                  (iii)  Dropout voltage : Vin - Vout < .15V at Iload=lOOuA, Vin=2.OV.
                  (iv)   The output voltage is programmable, with an accuracy within 2%
                         of the indicated value per Table 4 below:
                                                   Table 4
                                   Hex         vout        hex      vout
                                     0        1.427         10      1.964
                                     1        1.460         11      1.998
                                     2        1.494         12     2.032
                                     3        1.528        13      2.065
                                     4        1.561        14      2.099
                                    5         1.595        15      2.132
                                     6        1.628        16      2.166
                                     7        1.662        17      2.200
                                     8        1.696        18      2.233
                                     9        1.729        19      2.267
                                    A         1.763        1A      2.300
                                    B         1.796        1B      2.334
                                    C         1.830        IC      2.368
                                    D         1.864        1D      2.401
                                    E         1.897        1E      2.435
                                    F         1.931        1F      2.468
                 (v)    The regulator can supply output of ImA at 2.5V with an input
                        voltage of 2.8V.
                 (vi)   The regulator also has input and output pads that may be open
                        circuited if an external regulator is used. The current draw of the
                        regulator circuit is preferably less than I OnA in this non
                        operational mode.
                 (vii)  The change of output voltage from a load of 1OuA to ImA is
                        preferably less than 25mV.
                 (viii) Current Drain excluding output current @ 1mA load is less than
                        1OOuA from source.

                                                   104
                       (ix)    Current Drain excluding output current @ 0. 1mA load is less than
                               1OuA from source.
                       (x)     Current Drain excluding output current @ 10uA load is less than
                               luA from source.
  [003781     General purpose comparators
  [003791    The ASIC includes at least two comparators 4270, 4271 powered from VDDA.
 The comparators use 1.22V as a reference to generate the threshold.               The output of the
 comparators can be read by the processor and will create a maskable interrupt on the rising or
 falling edge determined by configuration registers.
  [00380]    The comparators have power control to reduce power when not in use, and the
 current supply is less than 50nA per comparator. The response time of the comparator is
 preferably less than 50usec for a 20mV overdrive signal, and the offset voltage is less than
 8mV.
 [00381]     The comparators also have programmable hysteresis, wherein the hysteresis
 options include threshold =1.22V + Vhyst on a rising input, threshold = 1.22-Vhyst on a
 falling input, or no hysteresis (Vhyst = 25  10 mV). The output from either comparator is
 available to any GPIO on any power plane. (See GPIO section).
 [003821     Sensor Connection Sensing Circuitry on RE
 [003831     An analog switched capacitor circuit monitors the impedance of the RE
 connection to determine if the sensor is connected. Specifically, a capacitor of about 20pF is
 switched at a frequency of 16 Hz driven by an inverter with an output swing from VSS to
VDD. Comparators will sense the voltage swing on the RE pad and, if the swing is less than
a threshold, the comparator output will indicate a connection.               The above-mentioned
comparisons are made on both transitions of the pulse. A swing below threshold on both
transitions is required to indicate a connect, and a comparison indicating high swing on either
phase will indicate a disconnect. The connect signal/disconnect signal is debounced such that
a transition of its state requires a stable indication to the new state for at least 2 second.
[00384]     The circuit has six thresholds defined by the following resistances in parallel with
a 20pF capacitor: 500k, 1Meg, 2MEG, 4Meg, 8Meg, and 16Meg ohms.                        This parallel

                                                   105
  equivalent circuit is between the RE pad and a virtual ground that can be at any voltage
  between the power rails. The threshold accuracy is better than 30%.
  [003851      The output of the Sensor Connect sensing circuitry is able to programmably
  generate an interrupt or processor startup if a sensor is connected or disconnected.   This
  circuit is active whenever the nPOR2_IN is high and the VDD and VDDA are present. The
  current drain for this circuit is less than 1OOnA average.
  [003861     WAKEUP Pad
  [00387]     The WAKEUP circuitry is powered by the VDD supply, with an input having a
 range from OV to VBAT. The WAKEUP pad 4272 has a weak pulldown of 80  40 nA.
 This current can be derived from an output of the BIASGEN 4220. The average current
 consumed by the circuit is less than 50nA with 0 v input.
 [003881      The WAKEUP input has a rising input voltage threshold, Vih, of 1.22  0.1 V,
 and the falling input threshold is -25mV 12mV that of the rising threshold. In preferred
 embodiments, the circuit associated with the WAKEUP input draws no more than 1OOnA for
 any input whose value is from -.2 to VBAT voltage (this current excludes the input pulldown
 current). The WAKEUP pad is debounced for at least 1/2 second.
 [00389]      The output of the WAKEUP circuit is able to programmably generate an interrupt
or processor startup if the WAKEUP pad changes state. (See the Event Handler section). It
is important to note that the WAKEUP pad circuitry is configured to assume a low current, <
 lnA, if the Battery Protection Circuit indicates a low battery state.
[00390]       UART WAKEUP
[00391]       The ASIC is configured to monitor the nRXEXT pad 4274. If the nRXEXT
level is continuously high (UART BREAK) for longer than % second, a UART WAKEUP
event will be generated. The due to sampling the UART WAKEUP event could be generated
with a continuous high as short as 1%second. The UART WAKEUP event can programmably
generate an interrupt, WAKEUP and/or a microprocessor reset (nRESETOD).             (See the
Event Handler section).
[00392]      In preferred embodiments, the circuit associated with the UART WAKEUP input
draws no more than 1OnA, and the UART WAKEUP pad circuitry is configured to assume a

                                                  106
low current, < InA, if the Battery Protection circuitry indicates a Battery Low state. The
UART Wakeup input has a rising input voltage threshold, Vih, of 1.22  0.1 V. The falling
input threshold is -25mV 12mV that of the rising threshold.
[00393]      MICROPROCESSOR WAKEUP CONTROL SIGNALS
[00394]      The ASIC is able to generate signals to help control the power management of a
microprocessor. Specifically, the ASIC may generate the following signals:
        (i)         nSHUTDN - nSHUTDN may control the power enable of an off chip
                    VDD regulator. The nSHUTDN pad is on the VBAT power rail.
                    nSHUTDN shall be low if the Battery Protection circuitry indicates a
                    Battery Low state, otherwise nSHUTDN shall be high.
        (ii)        VPADEN - VPADEN may control the power enable of an external
                    regulator that supplies VPAD power. An internal signal that corresponds
                    to this external signal ensures that inputs from the VPAD pads will not
                    cause extra current due to floating inputs when the VPAD power is
                    disabled. The VPADEN pad is an output on the VBAT power rail. The
                    VPADEN signal is low if the Battery Protection signal indicates a low
                    battery. The VPAD_EN signal may be set low by a software command
                    that starts a timer; the terminal count of the timer forces VPADEN low.
                    The following events may cause the VPADEN signal to go high if the
                    Battery Protection signal indicates a good battery (see Event Handler for
                   more details): nPOR2_IN transitioning from low to high; SW/Timer
                    (programmable); WAKEUP transition; low to high, and/or high to low,
                   (programmable); Sensor Connect transition; low to high, and/or high to
                   low, (programmable); UART Break; and RTC Time Event
                   (programmable).
       (iii)       UPWAKEUP - UPWAKEUP may connect to a microprocessor wakeup
                   pad. It is intended to wakeup the microprocessor from a sleep mode or
                   similar power down mode. The UP WAKEUP pad is an output on the
                   VPAD power rail. The UPWAKEUP signal can be programmed to be
                   active low, active high or a pulse. The UPWAKEUP signal may be set
                   low by a software command that starts a timer; the terminal count of the

                                    107
        timer forces UPWAKEUP low. The following events may cause the
        UPWAKEUP signal to go high if the Battery Protection signal indicates a
        good battery (see Event Handler for more details): nPOR2_IN
        transitioning from low to high; SW/Timer (programmable); WAKEUP
        transition; low to high, and/or high to low, (programmable); Sensor
        Connect transition; low to high, and/or high to low, (programmable);
        UART Break; and RTC Time Event (programmable). The WAKEUP
        signal may be delayed by a programmable amount. If WAKEUP is
        programmed to be a pulse, the pulse width may be programmed.
 (iv)   CLK_32KHZ - CLK_32KHZ pad may connect to a microprocessor to
        supply a low speed clock. The clock is on-off programmable and
       programmably turns on to wakeup events. The CLK_32KHZ pad is an
       output on the VPAD power rail. The CLK_32KHZ signal is low if the
       Battery Protection signal indicates a low battery. The CLK_32KHZ output
       may be programmed off by a programmable bit. The default is ON. The
       CLK_32KHZ signal may be disabled by a software command that starts a
       timer; The terminal count of the timer forces CLK_32KHZ low. The
       following events may cause the CLK_32KHZ signal to be enabled if the
       Battery Protection signal indicates a good battery (see Event Handler for
       more details): nPOR2_IN transitioning from low to high; SW/Timer
       (programmable); WAKEUP transition; low to high, and/or high to low,
       (programmable); Sensor Connect transition; low to high, and/or high to
       low, (programmable); UART Break; RTC Time Event (programmable);
      and Detection of low battery by Battery Protection Circuit.
(v)   nRESETOD - nRESET_OD may connect to a microprocessor to cause a
      microprocessor reset. The nRESET OD is programmable to wakeup
      events. The nRESETOD pad is an output on the VPAD power rail. This
      pad is open drain (nfet output). The nRESET_OD signal is low if the
      Battery Protection signal indicates a low battery. The nRESETOD active
      time is programmable from 1 to 200msec. The default is 200ms. The
      following events may cause the nRESETOD signal to be asserted low
      (see Event Handler for more details): nPOR2_IN; SW/Timer
      (programmable); WAKEUP transition; low to high, and/or high to low,

                                                108
                     (programmable); Sensor Connect transition; low to high, and/or high to
                     low, (programmable); UART Break; and RTC Time Event
                     (programmable).
         (vi)       UPINT - UP_INT may connect to a microprocessor to communicate
                    interrupts. The UPINT is programmable to wakeup events. The UPTNT
                    pad is an output on the VPAD power rail. The UPTNT signal is low if the
                    Battery Protection signal indicates a low battery. The UPINT signal may
                    be set high by a software command that starts a timer; the terminal count
                    of the timer forces UPTNT high. The following events may cause the
                    UPINT signal to be asserted high if the Battery Protection signal
                    indicates a good battery (see Event Handler for more details): SW/Timer
                    (programmable); WAKEUP transition; low to high, and/or high to low,
                    (programmable); Sensor Connect transition; low to high and/or high to
                    low, (programmable); UART Break; RTC Time Event (programmable);
                    Detection of low battery by Battery Protection Circuit; and any of the
                    ASIC interrupts when unmasked.
 [00395]     The ASIC has GPIO1 and GPIOO pads able to act as boot mode control for a
 microprocessor. A POR2 event will reset a 2 bit counter whose bits map to GPIO1 & GPIOO
 (MSB, LSB respectively).      A rising edge of UART break increments the counter by one,
 wherein the counter counts by modulo 4, and goes to zero if it is incremented in state 11. The
 boot mode counter is pre-settable via SPI.
 [003961     Event Handler/Watchdog
 [003971     The ASIC incorporates an event handler to define the responses to events,
including changes in system states and input signals. Events include all sources of interrupts
(e.g. UART_.BRK, WAKEUP, Sensor Connect, etc...).              The event handler responses to
stimuli are programmable by the software through the SPI interface.           Some responses,
however, may be hardwired (non-programmable).
[003981     The event handler actions include enable/disable VPADEN, enable/disable
CLK_32KHZ, assert nRESETOD, assert UPWAKEUP, and assert UPINT. The Event
Watchdog Timer I through Timer 5 are individually programmable in 250msec increments
from 250msec to 16,384 seconds. The timeouts for Event Watchdog timers 6 through 8 are

                                               109
 hardcoded.    The timeout for Timer6 and Timer7 are 1 minute; timeout for Timer8 is 5
 minutes.
  [00399]    The ASIC also has a watchdog function to monitor the microprocessor's
 responses when triggered by an event.          The event watchdog is activated when the
 microprocessor fails to acknowledge the event induced activities. The event watchdog, once
 activated, performs a programmable sequence of actions, Event Watchdog Timer 1 - 5, and
 followed by a hard-wired sequence of actions, Event Watchdog Timer 6 - 8, to re-gain the
 response of the microprocessor. The sequence of actions includes interrupt, reset, wake up,
 assert 32KHz clock, power down and power up to the microprocessor.
 [004001     During the sequences of actions, if the microprocessor regains its ability to
 acknowledge the activities that had been recorded, the event watchdog is reset. If the ASIC
fails to obtain an acknowledgement from the microprocessor, the event watchdog powers
down the microprocessor in a condition that will allow UARTBRK to reboot the
microprocessor and it will activate the alarm. When activated, the alarm condition generates
a square wave with a frequency of approximately 1kHz on the pad ALARM with a
programmable repeating pattern.        The programmable pattern has two programmable
sequences with programmable burst on and off times. The alarm has another programmable
pattern that may be programmed via the SPI port. It will have two programmable sequences
with programmable burst on and off times.
[004011     Digital to Analog (D/A)
[00402]     In a preferred embodiment, the ASIC has two 8 bit D/A converters 4276, 4278
with the following characteristics:
                    (i)    The D/A settles in less than 1 msec with less than 50pF load.
                    (ii)   The D/A has at least 8 bits of accuracy.
                    (iii)  The output range is programmable to either 0 to 1.22V or 0 to
                           VDDA.
                    (iv)   Temperature sensitivity of the D/A voltage reference is less than
                           1mV/ 0 C
                    (v)    The DNL is less than 1 LSB.
                    (vi)   Current consumed by the D/A is less than 2 uA from the VDDA
                           supply.

                                                 110
                     (vii)   Each D/A has an output I to a pad.
                     (viii)  The D/A outputs are high impedance. Loading current must be less
                            than lnA.
                     (ix)   The D/A pads can be programmed to output a digital signal from a
                            register. The output swing is from VSSA to VDDA.
  [004031     Charger/Data Downloader Interface
  [00404]    The TX EXTOD 4280 is an open drain output whose input is the signal on the
  TXUP input pad.       This will allow the TXEXTOD pad to be open in the UART idle
  condition. The TXEXTOD pad has a comparator monitoring its voltage. If the voltage is
 above the comparator threshold voltage for a debounce period (1/4 second), the output,
 nBATCHRGEN (4281), will go low. This comparator and other associated circuitry with
 this function are on the VBAT and/or VDDBU planes.
  [00405]    The circuitry associated with this function must allow lows on TXEXT OD pad
 that result from normal communication with an external device without disabling the
 assertion of nBATCHRGEN.            If POR1 is active, nBATCHRGEN will be high (not
 asserted). The comparator's threshold voltage is between .50V and 1.2V. The comparator
 will have hysteresis; The falling threshold is approximately 25mV lower than the rising
 threshold.
 [00406]     The nRXEXT pad inverts the signal on this pad and output it to RXUP. In this
way, the nRXEXT signal will idle low. The nRXEXT must accept inputs up to VBAT
voltage. The nRXEXT threshold is 1.22V  3%. The output of this comparator will be
available over the SPI bus for a microprocessor to read.
[00407]      The nRXEXT pad also incorporates a means to programmably source a current,
which will be 80 30nA, with the maximum voltage being VBAT. The ASIC layout has
mask programmable options to adjust this current from 30nA to 200nA in less than 50nA
steps with a minimal number of mask layer changes. A programmable bit will be available to
block the UART break detection and force the RXUP high. In normal operation, this bit
will be set high before enabling the current sourcing to nRXEXT and then set low after the
current sourcing is disabled to ensure that no glitches are generated on RXUP or that a
UART break event is generated. Note to implement a wet connector detector, while the
current source into nRXEXT is active, an RX comparator output indicating a low input

                                                 111
  voltage would indicate        leakage current.     The ASIC includes a pulldown resistor
   approximately 100k ohms on the nRXEXT pad. This pulldown will be disconnected when
  the current source is active.
   [00408]     Sensor Connect Switch
   [004091     The ASIC shall have a pad, SENCONN SW (4282), which is able to detect a
  low resistance to VSS (4284). The SENCONNSW sources a current from 5 to 25 uA with
  SENCONNSW=OV and has a maximum open circuit voltage of .4V. The ASIC layout has
  mask programmable options to adjust this current from IuA to 20uA in less than 5uA steps
  with a minimal number of mask layer changes.           The SEN CONN SW has associated
  circuitry that detects the presence of a resistance between SENCONNSW and VSSA
  (4234) whose threshold is between 2k and 15k ohms. The average current drain of this
  circuit is 50nA max. Sampling must be used to achieve this low current.
  [00410]      Oscillator Calibration Circuit
  [004111     The ASIC has counters whose inputs can be steered to internal or external clock
 sources. One counter generates a programmable gating interval for the other counter. The
 gating intervals include 1 to 15 seconds from the 32kHz oscillator. The clocks that can be
 steered to either counter are 32kHz, RC oscillator, High Speed RC oscillator, and an input
 from any GPIO pad.
 [00412]      Oscillator Bypassing
 [004131      The ASIC can substitute external clocks for each of the oscillators' outputs. The
ASIC has a register that can be written only when a specific TESTMODE is asserted. This
register has bits to enable the external input for the RC Oscillator, and may be shared with
other analog test control signals. However, this register will not allow any oscillator bypass
bits to be active if the TESTMODE is not active.
[004141       The ASIC also has an input pad for an external clock to bypass the RC Oscillator.
The pad, GPIOVBAT, is on the VBAT power plane. The ASIC further includes a bypass
enable pad for the 32KHZ oscillator, OSC32K BYPASS. When high, the 32KHZ oscillator
output is supplied by driving the OSC32KHZ_IN pad.             It is noted that, normally, the
OSC32KHZIN pad is connected to a crystal.

                                               112
 [00415]    The ASIC has inputs for an external clock to bypass the HSRCOSC.                The
bypass is enabled by a programmable register bit.         The HSRCOSC may be supplied
programmably by either the GPIO on the VDD plane or by GPIOs on the VPAD plane.
 [00416]    SPI Slave Port
 [004171    The SPI slave port includes an interface consisting of a chip select input
(SPI nCS) 4289, a clock input (SPICK) 4286, a serial data input (SPIMOSI) 4287, and a
serial data output (SPIMISO) 4288. The chip select input (SPI nCS) is an active low input,
asserted by an off-chip SPI master to initiate and qualify an SPI transaction. When SPInCS
is asserted low, the SPI slave port configures itself as a SPI slave and performs data
transactions based on the clock input (SPICK). When SPI nCS is inactive, the SPI slave
port resets itself and remains in reset mode. As this SPI interface supports block transfers,
the master should keep SPI nCS low until the end of a transfer.
[00418]     The SPI clock input (SPI CK) will always be asserted by the SPI master. The SPI
slave port latches the incoming data on the SPIMOSI input using the rising edge of SPICK
and driving the outgoing data on the SPIMISO output using the falling edge of SPI_CK.
The serial data input (SPIMOSI) is used to transfer data from the SPI master to the SPI
slave. All data bits are asserted following the falling edge of SPI_CK. The serial data output
(SPIMISO) is used to transfer data from the SPI slave to the SPI master. All data bits are
asserted following the falling edge of SPI_CK.
[00419]     SPInCS, SPI_CK and SPIMOSI are always driven by the SPI master, unless the
SPI master is powered down. If VPADEN is low, these inputs are conditioned so that the
current drain associated with these inputs is less than IOnA and the SPI circuitry is held reset
or inactive.   SPIMISO is only driven by the SPI slave port when SPI nCS is active,
otherwise, SPIMISO is tri-stated.
[00420]     The chip select (SPI nCS) defines and frames the data transfer packet of an SPI
data transaction. The data transfer packet consists of three parts. There is a 4-bit command
section followed by a 12-bit address section, which is then followed by any number of 8 bit
data bytes. The command bit 3 is used as the direction bit. A "1" indicates a write operation,
and a "0" indicates a read operation. The combinations of command bit 2, 1 and 0 have the
following definitions. Unused combinations are undefined.

                                                    113
                       (i)     0000:       read data and increment address.
                       (ii)    0001:       read data, no change to address
                       (iii)   0010:       read data, decrement address
                       (iv)    1000:       write data and increment address
                       (v)     1001:       write data, no change to address
                       (vi)    1010:       write data, decrement address
                       (vii)   x011:       Test Port Addressing
  [004211      The 12-bit address section defines the starting byte address.       If SPI_nCS stays
  active after the first data byte, to indicate a multi-byte transfer, the address is incremented by
  one after each byte is transferred. Bit<1 1> of the address (of address<1 1:0>) indicates the
  highest address bit. The address wraps around after reaching the boundary.
  [004221      Data is in the byte format, and a block transfer can be performed by extending
 SPInCS to allow all bytes to be transferred in one packet.
 [004231      Microprocessor Interrupt
 [00424]      The ASIC has an output at the VPAD logic level, UP_INT, for the purpose of
 sending interrupts to a host microprocessor. The microprocessor interrupt module consists of
 an interrupt status register, an interrupt mask register, and a function to logically OR all
 interrupt statuses into one microprocessor interrupt. The interrupt is implemented to support
both edge sensitive and level sensitive styles. The polarity of the interrupt is programmable.
The default interrupt polarity is TBD.
 [00425]      In a preferred embodiment, all interrupt sources on the AFE ASIC will be
recorded in the interrupt status register. Writing a "1"to the corresponding interrupt status bit
clears the corresponding pending interrupt. All interrupt sources on the AFE ASIC are mask
able through the interrupt mask register. Writing a "1"to the corresponding interrupt mask bit
enables the masking of the corresponding pending interrupt. Writing a "0" to the
corresponding interrupt mask bit disables the masking of the corresponding interrupt. The
default state of the interrupt mask register is TBD.
[00426]      General Purpose Input/Outputs (GPIOs)/Parallel Test Port
[004271      In embodiments of the invention, the ASIC may have eight GPIOs that operate on
VPAD level signals. The ASIC has one GPIO that operates on a VBAT level signal, and one

                                                114
 GPIO that operates on a VDD level signal. All off the GPIOs have at least the following
 characteristics:
                     (i)    Register bits control the selection and direction of each GPIO.
                     (ii)   The ASIC has a means to configure the GPIOs as inputs that can be
                            read over the SPI interface.
                    (iii)   The ASIC has a means to configure the GPIOs as input to generate
                            an interrupt.
                    (iv)    The ASIC has a means to configure each GPIO as an output to be
                            controlled by a register bit that can be written over the SPI
                            interface.
                    (v)     Programmably, the ASIC is able to output an input signal applied
                           to GPIO_VBAT or GPIOVDD to a GPIO (on the VPAD power
                           plane). (Level shifting function).
                    (vi)   The ASIC has a means to configure each GPIO as an input to the
                           oscillator calibration circuit.
                    (vii)  The ASIC has a means to configure each general purpose
                           comparator output to at least one GPIO on each power plane. The
                           polarity of the comparator output is programmable by a
                           programmable bit.
                    (viii) The GPIOs have microprocessor interrupt generating capability.
                    (ix)   The GPIOs are programmable to open drain outputs.
                    (x)    The GPIOs on the VPAD power plane are configurable to
                           implement boot control of a microprocessor.
[00428]     A Parallel Test Port shares the 8-bit GPIOs on the VPAD voltage plane. The test
port will be used for observing register contents and various internal signals. The outputs of
this port are controlled by the port configuration register in the normal mode, Writing 8'hFF
to both GPIOO1S_REG & GPIO_02SREG registers will steer the test port data on the
GPIO outputs, while writing 8'hOO to the GPIOONREG register will disable the test port
data and enable the GPIO data onto the GPIO outputs.
[00429]     Registers and pre-grouped internal signals can be observed over this test port by
addressing the target register through the SPI slave port. The SPI packet has the command
bits set to 4'bOO 11 followed by the 12-bit target register address.        The parallel test port

                                                  115
   continues to display the content of the addressed register until the next Test Port Addressing
   command is received.
   [004301     Analog Test Ports
   [00431]     The IC has a multiplexer feeding the pad, TP_ANAMUX (4290), which will give
  visibility to internal analog circuit nodes for testing. The IC also has a multiplexer feeding
  the pad, TP RES (4260), which will give visibility to internal analog circuit nodes for testing.
  This pad will also accommodate a precision I meg resistor in usual application to perform
  various system calibrations.
  [004321      Chip ID
  [004331      The ASIC includes a 32 bit mask programmable ID. A microprocessor using the
  SPI interface will be able to read this ID. This ID is to be placed in the analog electronics
 block so that changing the ID does not require a chip reroute. The design should be such that
 only one metal or one contact mask change is required to change the ID.
  [00434]      Spare Test Outputs
  [004351     The ASIC has 16 spare digital output signals that can be multiplexed to the 8 bit
 GPIO under commands sent over the SPI interface. These signals will be organized as two 8
 bit bytes, and will be connected to VSS if not used.
 [004361      Digital Testing
 [00437]      The ASIC has a test mode controller that uses two input pins, TESTCTLO (4291)
 and TESTCTL1 (4292). The test controller generates signals from the combination of the
test control signals that have the following functionality (TESTCTL<1:0>):
                      (i)    0   is normal operating mode;
                      (ii)    1 is Analog Test Mode;
                      (iii)  2   is Scan Mode;
                      (iv)   3   is Analog Test mode with the VDDEN controlled by an input
                             to GPIOVBAT.
[004381       The test controller logic is split between the VDD and VDDBU power planes.
During scan mode, testing LTVBAT should be asserted high to condition the analog outputs

                                                  116
  to the digital logic. The ASIC has a scan chain implemented in as much digital logic as
  reasonably possible for fast digital testing.
   [00439]     Leakage Test Pin
   [00440]     The ASIC has a pin called LTVBAT that, when high, will put all the analog
  blocks into an inactive mode so that only leakage currents will be drawn from the supplies.
  LT_VBAT causes all digital outputs from analog blocks to be in a stable high or low state as
  to not affect interface logic current drain. The LTVBAT pad is on the VBAT plane with a
  pulldown with a resistance between 10k and 40k ohms.
  [00441]     Power Requirements
  [00442]     In embodiments of the invention, the ASIC includes a low power mode where, at
  a minimum, the microprocessor clock is off, the 32kHz real time clock runs, and circuitry is
  active to detect a sensor connection, a change of level of the WAKEUP pin, or a BREAK on
 the nRXEXT input. This mode has a total current drain from VBAT (VDDBU), VDD, and
 VDDA of 4.OuA maximum. When the Battery Protection Circuit detects a low battery (see
 Battery Protection Circuit description), the ASIC goes to a mode with only the VBAT and
 VDDBU power planes active. This is called Low Battery state. The VBAT current in this
 mode is less than .3uA.
 [00443]     With the ASIC programmed to the potentiostat configuration with any one
 WORK electrode active in the H202 (peroxide) mode with its voltage set to 1.535V, the
 COUNTER amplifier on with the VSETRE set to 1.00V, a 20MEG load resistor connected
 between WORK and the COUNTER, the COUNTER and RE connected together and
 assuming one WORK electrode current measurement per minute, the average current drain of
 all power supplies is less than 7uA.        The measured current after calibration should be
26.75nA      3%. Enabling additional WORK electrodes increases the combined current drain
by less than 2uA with the WORK electrode current of 25nA.
 [00444]     With the ASIC programmed to the potentiostat configuration with the diagnostic
function enabled to measure the impedance of one of the WORK electrodes with respect to
the COUNTER electrode, the ASIC is configured to meet the following:
                     (i)     Test frequencies : 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.5Hz, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0, 10, 100, 1000
                             and 4000 Hz.

                                                 117
                      (ii)   The measurement of the above frequencies is not to exceed 50
                             seconds.
                      (iii)  The total charge supplied to the ASIC is less than 8 millicoulombs.
  [00445]    Environment
  [00446]    In preferred embodiments of the invention, the ASIC:
                      (i)    Operates and meets all specifications in the commercial
                             temperature range of 0 to 70 'C.
                      (ii)   Functionally operates between -20'C and 80'C, but may do so with
                             reduced accuracy.
                     (iii)   Is expected to operate after being stored in a temperature range of
                             30 to 80 'C.
                     (iv)   Is expected to operate in the relative humidity range of 1% to 95%.
                     (v)    ESD protection is greater than +2KV, Human Body Model on all
                            pins when packaged in a TBD package, unless otherwise specified.
                     (vi)   Is configured such that the WORKI - WORK5, COUNTER, RE,
                            TXEXTOD, and nRXEXT pads withstand greater than 4KV
                            Human Body Model.
                     (vii)  Is configured such that the leakage current of the WORKI
                            WORK5 and RE pads is less than .05nA at 40 'C.
 [00447]    In embodiments of the invention, the ASIC may be fabricated in .25 micron
CMOS process, and backup data for the ASIC is on DVD disk, 916-TBD.
 [00448]    As described in detail hereinabove, the ASIC provides the necessary analog
electronics to: (i) support multiple potentiostats and interface with multi-terminal glucose
sensors based on either Oxygen or Peroxide; (ii) interface with a microcontroller so as to
form a micropower sensor system; and (iii) implement EIS diagnostics based on
measurement of EIS-based parameters.          The measurement and calculation of EIS-based
parameters will now described in accordance with embodiments of the inventions herein.
[00449j    As has been mentioned, previously, the impedance at frequencies in the range
from 0.1Hz to 8kHz can provide information as to the state of the sensor electrodes. The
AFE IC circuitry incorporates circuitry to generate the measurement forcing signals and

                                                118
  circuitry to make measurements used to calculate the impedances. The design considerations
  for this circuitry include current drain, accuracy, speed of measurement, the amount of
  processing required, and the amount of on time required by a control microprocessor.
  [004501     In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the technique the AFE IC uses to
  measure the impedance of an electrode is to superimpose a sine wave voltage on the dc
  voltage driving an electrode and to measure the phase and amplitude of the resultant AC
  current.   To generate the sine wave, the AFE IC incorporates a digitally-synthesized sine
  wave current.     This digital technique is used because the frequency and phase can be
 precisely controlled by a crystal derived timebase and it can easily generate frequencies from
 DC up to 8kHz. The sine wave current is impressed across a resistor in series with a voltage
 source in order to add the AC component to the electrode voltage. This voltage is the AC
 forcing voltage. It is then buffered by an amplifier that drives a selected sensor electrode.
  [004511     The current driving the electrode contains the resultant AC current component
 from the forcing sine wave and is converted to a voltage. This voltage is then processed by
 multiplying it by a square wave that has a fixed phase relative to the synthesized sine wave.
 This multiplied voltage is then integrated.     After the end of a programmable number of
 integration intervals--an interval being an integral number of % periods of the driving sine
 wave--the voltage is measured by the ADC.         By calculations involving the values of the
 integrated voltages, the real and imaginary parts of the impedance can be obtained.
 [004521      The advantage of using integrators for the impedance measurement is that the
noise bandwidth of the measurement is reduced significantly with respect to merely sampling
the waveforms. Also, the sampling time requirements are significantly reduced which relaxes
the speed requirement of the ADC.
 [00453]      FIG. 45 shows the main blocks of the EIS circuitry in the AFE IC (designated by
reference numeral 4255 in FIG. 42). The IDAC 4510 generates a stepwise sine wave in
synchrony with a system clock. A high frequency of this system clock steps the IDAC
through the lookup table that contains digital code.        This code drives the IDAC, which
generates an output current approximating a sine wave. This sine wave current is forced
across a resistor to give the AC component, Vinac, with the DC offset, VSET8 (4520).
When the IDAC circuit is disabled, the DC output voltage reverts to VSET8, so the
disturbance to the electrode equilibrium is minimized. This voltage is then buffered by an

                                                  119
  amplifier 4530 that drives the electrode through a resistor in series, Rsense. The differential
  voltage across Rsense is proportional to the current. This voltage is presented to a multiplier
  4540 that multiplies the voltage by either +1 or -1.         This is done with switches and a
  differential amplifier (instrumentation amplifier). The system clock is divided to generate the
 phase clock 4550 which controls the multiply function and can be set to 0, 90, 180 or 270
  degrees relative to the sine wave.
  [00454]     The plots in FIGs. 46 and 47 show a simulation of the signals of the circuit shown
 in FIG. 45 to a current that has 0 degree phase shift, which represents a real resistance. For
 these example simulations, the simulation input values were selected to give the current sense
 voltage equal to .150V.      To obtain enough information to derive the impedance and phase,
 two integrations are required: one with a 0 degree phase multiply (FIG. 46) and one with a 90
 degree phase multiply (FIG. 47).
 [004551      Calculation of Impedance
 [00456]      The equations describing the integrator output are provided below. For simplicity,
 only     of a sine wave period is considered. As can be seen from the plots of FIGs. 46 and
 47, total integrator output will be approximately the integrated value of a    2 sine wave cycle
multiplied by the number of H cycles integrated. It is noted that the multiplying switches in
relation with the integrate time perform a "gating" function of the signal to the integrator; this
can be viewed as setting the limits of integration. The multiplying signal has a fixed phase to
the generated sine wave. This can be set to 0, 90, 180, or 270 degrees with software. If the
sine wave is in phase (0 degree shift) with respect to the multiply square wave, the limits of
integration will be  7n (1800) and 0 (00). If the sine wave is shifted by 90 degrees, the limits of
integration can be viewed as 3/47r (2700) and 1/4n (90').
[00457]      The formulas with the multiplying square wave in-phase (0*) with respect to the
driving sine wave are shown below. This will yield a voltage that is proportional to the real
component of the current. It is noted that (D is the phase shift of the sine wave relative to the
multiplying square wave; Vout is the integrator output, and Aampl is the current sine wave
amplitude.     Also the period of the sine wave is 1/f, and RC is the time constant of the

                                                                120
   integrator.
                           ORC              RC                          +        2fRC                        0
                                               v =-
                                                 ,       "''    cos~rc +#]   - cos(#] ]
        cos(#+ cp) =cos(#) cos(cp)           -sin(#)sin(p);         cos( +#)=      - cos(#); cos(-#)= cos(#)
        voto=         ""*'
                  2rcfRC
                            [cos(rc + ) - cos(A)]=                  ""'    [cos($)+ cos($)] = A"'p" cos($)
                                                                 2JRC                               fRC
  [004581       If (D=0, v,,         =   A"n'        This corresponds to the real part of the current.
                                          fRC
  [004591       For the multiplying square wave quadrature phase (900) with respect to the driving
 sine wave to yield an output proportional to the imaginary component of the current:
          yAt
                           RCinin(2
                                           RC am?               f     + $   =-     A amp? cos[2nft + $]
                                                                                 2nRC
                        -4        4f                724fR                                                  4f
                                 VOUtv.,,0=
                                     9O = -
                                                 Aa'"'  Fcosr+#--os
                                                    lCos[L                        I+#
                                                                   g + 0S] - cos[-ff+     1
                                                2nfRC _         2                2
                                                                     31
     cos($+ cp) = cos(#) cos(cp)         -sin(#)sin(cp);       cos[- r +    #]= sin(#);     cos[- rc +]=   -  sin($)
                                                                     2                           2
         vlto =          ""'''[sin($) + sin($)]=                  a"' [sin($) + sin(#)] =           ""' sin($)
                   2rfiRC                                    2 #RC                                ,RC
 [004601       If D=0,       vou9 o         A amp' sin(z$)    =0. This corresponds to the imaginary part of
                                           rfRC
the current.

                                                    121
   [00461]     In the first example plot shown in FIG. 46, Aampi is .150v, the frequency is lkHz,
   D=0, the RC for the integrator is 20M ohm and 25pF which gives RC=.5msec. Plugging in
  those numbers into the equations, gives .09549v, which favorably compares to the integrator
  output of the plot in FIG. 46.       It is noted that the integrator output over the period of
  integration is the delta voltage from the start of integration to the measurement.
  [004621      For the 900 square wave multiply, the result should be 0 since sin(0)=0.           The
  simulation result is close to this value.
  [00463]      To calculate the phase:
  since    v        sin($),    it follows:      = arctan          =aretan2v"" 9   where Vou.,to is the
           Vouto    cos($)                               cos($)            vo
 integrator output with the 900 phase shift for the multiply, and Vouto is the integrator output
 for the 0' phase shift. The VouQo and Voto outputs must be integrated for the same number of
   2 cycles or normalized by the number of cycles. It is important to note that, in the actual
 software (e.g., ASIC) implementation, only integral cycles (3600) are allowed because an
 integral number of cycles compensates for any offset in the circuitry before the multiplier.
                                                                                          A
 [004641      The    magnitude     of the      current   can    be   found     from  |I=   "      and
                                                                                          Rse.e
           Vut   9                          mi orfRC                                    2          2
 Aampi       .goRC           or Aamp   -                         A      =
                                                                        -       C         +V
              sin(#)                         cos(#)                a
 This current has the phase angle as calculated above.
 [004651      The above analysis shows that one can determine the current amplitude and its
phase with respect to the multiplying signal. The forcing voltage is generated in a fixed
phase (0, 90, 180 or 270 degrees) with respect to the multiplying signal--this is done digitally
so that it is precisely controlled. But there is at least one amplifier in the path before the
forcing sine wave is applied to the electrode; this will introduce unwanted phase shift and
amplitude error. This can be compensated for by integrating the forcing sine wave signal
obtained electrically near the electrode.        Thus, the amplitude and any phase shift of the
forcing voltage can be determined. Since the path for both the current and voltage waveform
will be processed by the same circuit, any analog circuit gain and phase errors will cancel.

                                                   122
    [004661    Since the variable of interest is the impedance, it may not be necessary to actually
   calculate the Aampi. Because the current waveform and the voltage waveform are integrated
   through the same path, there exists a simple relationship between the ratio of the current and
   the voltage. Calling the integrated current sense voltage V1_out and the integrated electrode
   voltage as Vv_out with the additional subscript to describe the phase of the multiplying
   function:
                                      A          0 =VZI outfRC z k;
                                       Rense          cos()R
                                  V = AV ap!zo= V~VutfO7RC               0
                                                         cos(O)
  [004671     The impedance will be the voltage divided by the current. Thus,
                                y  out OrRCZO
                   ||                cos(O)           R       *    out 0  cos(#)
                    |I|Z       VZI OnfRCZ                  "    V,   out0 cos(O)
                                  cos(#)Rsese
  [00468      The magnitudes of the voltage and the current can also be obtained from the
 square root of the squares of the 0 and 90 degree phase integration voltages. As such, the
 following may also be used:
  z      V\=     _    \V0 out |   +_0V o,, 9     0               V,  ot,     +_ V   ut_ 90
                                                                                                   )
                                                                                           Z (O -
               -_0Out       ot              90      -   sense *        -   -        -    -
 [004691      The integration of the waveforms may be done with one hardware integrator for
the relatively-higher frequencies, e.g., those above about 256 Hz.              The high frequencies
require four measurement cycles: (i) one for the in-phase sensor current; (ii) one for the 90
degree out of phase sensor current; (iii) one for the in-phase forcing voltage; and (iv) one for
the 90 degree out of phase forcing voltage.

                                                123
  [004701    Two integrators may be used for the relatively-lower frequencies, e.g., those lower
  than about 256Hz, with the integration value consisting of combining integrator results
 numerically in the system microprocessor.      Knowing how many integrations there are per
 cycle allows the microprocessor to calculate the 0 and 90 degree components appropriately.
  [00471]    Synchronizing the integrations with the forcing AC waveform and breaking the
 integration into at least four parts at the lower frequencies will eliminate the need for the
 hardware multiplier as the combining of the integrated parts in the microprocessor can
 accomplish the multiplying function. Thus, only one integration pass is necessary for
 obtaining the real and imaginary current information.           For the lower frequencies, the
 amplifier phase errors will become smaller, so below a frequency, e.g., between 1Hz and
 50Hz, and preferably below about 1Hz, the forcing voltage phase will not need to be
 determined. Also, the amplitude could be assumed to be constant for the lower frequencies,
 such that only one measurement cycle after stabilization may be necessary to determine the
 impedance.
 [00472]     As noted above, whereas one hardware integrator is used for the relatively-higher
frequencies, for the relatively-lower frequencies, two integrators may be used. In this regard,
the schematic in FIG. 45 shows the EIS circuitry in the AFE IC as used for the relatively
higher EIS frequencies.        At these frequencies, the integrator does not saturate while
integrating over a cycle. In fact, multiple cycles are integrated for the highest frequencies as
this will provide a larger output signal which results in a larger signal to noise ratio.
[004731        For the relatively-lower frequencies, such as, e.g., those below about 500Hz, the
integrator output can saturate with common parameters.         Therefore, for these frequencies,
two integrators are used that are alternately switched.       That is, while a first integrator is
integrating, the second integrator is being read by the ADC and then is reset (zeroed) to make
it ready to integrate when the integration time for first integrator is over. In this way, the
signal can be integrated without having gaps in the integration. This would add a second
integrator and associated timing controls to the EIS circuitry shown in FIG. 45.
[00474]     Stabilization Cycle Considerations
[00475]     The above analysis is for steady state conditions in which the current waveform
does not vary from cycle to cycle. This condition is not met immediately upon application of
a sine wave to a resistor - capacitor (RC) network because of the initial state of the capacitor.

                                                 124
  The current phase starts out at 0 degrees and progresses to the steady state value. However, it
  would be desirable for the measurement to consume a minimum amount of time in order to
  reduce current drain and also to allow adequate time to make DC sensor measurements
  (Isigs).    Thus, there is a need to determine the number of cycles necessary to obtain
  sufficiently accurate measurements.
  [004761     The equation for a simple RC circuit--with a resistor and capacitor in series--is
                                    va, =R*I(t)+--         I(t)&t
                                                       C
  [00477]     Solving the above for I(t) gives:
  .1(t) =-      VoC +      -    o "         elRC   v_nco                     2 Sin({ot)+ -- CoS Cot
           RC            R[  ,2      1              R    [.2       1                        RC
                                  R2C2                          R 2c2
 where Vo is the initial value of the capacitor voltage, Vm is the magnitude of the driving sine
 wave, and co is the radian frequency (2ncf).
 [004781      The first term contains the terms defining the non-steady state condition. One
 way to speed the settling of the system would be to have the first term equal 0, which may be
 done, e.g., by setting
                                R[C2 +     1I1                     RCwcoV
                                    R
                                     L   2  o
                                         R2C2]       r
                                                    or   VC0  =+
                                                           ""li (R2 C2co 2 +1)
 [004791     While this may not be necessary in practice, it is possible to set the initial phase of
the forcing sine wave to jump immediately from the DC steady state point to Vernit.            This
technique may be evaluated for the specific frequency and anticipated phase angle to find the
possible reduction in time.
[004801      The non-steady state term is multiplied by the exponential function of time. This
will determine how quickly the steady state condition is reached.          The RC value can be

                                                   125
   determined as a first order approximation from the impedance calculation information.
   Given the following:
                 1                                                       Zcos#           1____
        X=             Zsin$0                                     RC= ZCOS'              1
               "oC              and R    Z Cos $, it follows that       coZ sin $    co tan $
   [00481]     For a sensor at 100Hz with a 5 degree phase angle, this would mean a time
  constant of 18.2 msec. For settling to less than 1%, this would mean approximately 85 msec
  settling time or 8.5 cycles. On the other hand, for a sensor at 0.10Hz with a 65 degree phase
  angle, this would mean a time constant of .75 sec. For settling to less than 1%, this would
  mean approximately 3.4 sec settling time.
  [00482]      Thus, in embodiments of the invention as detailed hereinabove, the ASIC includes
  (at least) 7 electrode pads, 5 of which are assigned as WORK electrodes (i.e., sensing
  electrodes, or working electrodes, or WEs), one of which is labeled COUNTER (i.e., counter
  electrode, or CE), and one that is labeled REFERENCE (i.e., reference electrode, or RE).
 The counter amplifier 4321 (see FIG. 42) may be programmably connected to the
  COUNTER, the REFERENCE, and/or any of the WORK assigned pads, and in any
  combination thereof. As has been mentioned, embodiments of the invention may include,
 e.g., more than five WEs. In this regard, embodiments of the invention may also be directed
 to an ASIC that interfaces with more than 5 working electrodes.
  [00483]     It is important to note that, with the ASIC as described herein, each of the above
 mentioned five working electrodes, the counter electrode, and the reference electrode is
 individually and independently addressable. As such, any one of the 5 working electrodes
 may be turned on and measure Isig (electrode current), and any one may be turned off.
 Moreover, any one of the 5 working electrodes may be operably connected/coupled to the
 EIS circuitry for measurement of EIS-related parameters, e.g., impedance and phase. In other
 words, EIS may be selectively run on any one or more of the working electrodes. In addition,
the respective voltage level of each of the 5 working electrodes may be independently
programmed in amplitude and sign with respect to the reference electrode. This has many
applications, such as, e.g., changing the voltage on one or more electrodes in order to make
the electrode(s) less sensitive to interference.
 [004841     In embodiments where two or more working electrodes are employed as
redundant electrodes, the EIS techniques described herein may be used, e.g., to determine

                                                    126
   which of the multiplicity of redundant electrodes is functioning optimally (e.g., in terms of
   faster start-up, minimal or no dips, minimal or no sensitivity loss, etc.), so that only the
   optimal working electrode(s) can be addressed for obtaining glucose measurements.              The
   latter, in turn, may drastically reduce, if not eliminate, the need for continual calibrations. At
  the same time, the other (redundant) working electrode(s) may be: (i) turned off, which would
  facilitate power management, as EIS may not be run for the "off' electrodes; (ii) powered
  down; and/or (iii) periodically monitored via EIS to determine whether they have recovered,
  such that they may be brought back on line. On the other hand, the non-optimal electrode(s)
  may trigger a request for calibration.        The ASIC is also capable of making any of the
  electrodes--including, e.g., a failed or off-line working electrode--the counter electrode.
  Thus, in embodiments of the invention, the ASIC may have more than one counter electrode.
  [00485]       While the above generally addresses simple redundancy, wherein the redundant
  electrodes are of the same size, have the same chemistry, the same design, etc., the above
  described diagnostic algorithms, fusion methodologies, and the associated ASIC may also be
 used in conjunction with spatially distributed, similarly sized or dissimilarly sized, working
 electrodes as a way of assessing sensor implant integrity as a function of implant time. Thus,
 in embodiments of the invention, sensors may be used that contain electrodes on the same
 flex that may have different shapes, sizes, and/or configurations, or contain the same or
 different chemistries, used to target specific environments.
 [004861        For example, in one embodiment, one or two working electrodes may be designed
 to have, e.g., considerably better hydration, but may not last past 2 or 3 days. Other working
 electrode(s), on the other hand, may have long-lasting durability, but slow initial hydration.
In such a case, an algorithm may be designed whereby the first group of working electrode(s)
is used to generate glucose data during early wear, after which, during mid-wear, a switch
over may be made (e.g., via the ASIC) to the second group of electrode(s). In such a case,
the fusion algorithm, e.g., may not necessarily "fuse" data for all of the WEs, and the
user/patient is unaware that the sensing component was switched during mid-wear.
[00487]        In yet other embodiments, the overall sensor design may include WEs of different
sizes. Such smaller WEs generally output a lower Isig (smaller geometric area) and may be
used specifically for hypoglycemia detection/accuracy, while larger WEs--which output a
larger Isig--may be used specifically for euglycemia and hyperglycemia accuracy. Given the
size differences, different EIS thresholds and/or frequencies must be used for diagnostics as

                                                 127
  among these electrodes.       The ASIC, as described hereinabove, accommodates such
  requirements by enabling programmable, electrode-specific, EIS criteria.          As with the
  previous example, signals may not necessarily be fused to generate an SG output (i.e.,
  different WEs may be tapped at different times).
  [00488]     As was noted previously, the ASIC includes a programmable sequencer 4266 that
  commands the start and stop of the stimulus and coordinates the measurements of the EIS
 based parameters for frequencies above about 100Hz. At the end of the sequence, the data is
 in a buffer memory, and is available for a microprocessor to quickly obtain (values of) the
 needed parameters.      This saves time, and also reduces system power requirements by
 requiring less microprocessor intervention.
  [004891    For frequencies lower than about 100Hz, the programmable sequencer 4266
 coordinates the starting and stopping of the stimulus for EIS, and buffers data. Either upon
 the end of the measurement cycle, or if the buffer becomes close to full, the ASIC may
 interrupt the microprocessor to indicate that it needs to gather the available data. The depth
 of the buffer will determine how long the microprocessor can do other tasks, or sleep, as the
 EIS-based parameters are being gathered. For example, in one preferred embodiment, the
buffer is 64 measurements deep. Again, this saves energy as the microprocessor will not
need to gather the data piecemeal.      It is also noted that the sequencer 4266 also has the
capability of starting the stimulus at a phase different from 0, which has the potential of
settling faster.
 [00490]     The ASIC, as described above, can control the power to a microprocessor. Thus,
for example, it can turn off the power completely, and power up the microprocessor, based on
detection of sensor connection/disconnection using, e.g., a mechanical switch, or capacitive
or resistive sensing. Moreover, the ASIC can control the wakeup of a microprocessor. For
example, the microprocessor can put itself into a low-power mode. The ASIC can then send
a signal to the microprocessor if, e.g., a sensor connect/disconnect detection is made by the
ASIC, which signal wakes up the processor. This includes responding to signals generated
by the ASIC using techniques such as, e.g., a mechanical switch or a capacitive-based sensing
scheme.      This allows the microprocessor to sleep for long periods of time, thereby
significantly reducing power drain.

                                                     128
    [004911      It is important to reiterate that, with the ASIC as described hereinabove, both
   oxygen sensing and peroxide sensing can be performed simultaneously, because the five (or
   more) working electrodes are all independent, and independently addressable, and, as such,
   can be configured in any way desired. In addition, the ASIC allows multiple thresholds for
   multiple markers, such that EIS can be triggered by various factors--e.g., level of V,
   capacitance change, signal noise, large change in Isig, drift detection, etc.--each having its
   own threshold(s).      In addition, for each such factor, the ASIC enables multiple levels of
   thresholds.
   [00492]      In yet another embodiment of the invention, EIS may be used as an alternative
  plating measurement tool, wherein the impedance of both the working and counter electrodes
  of the sensor substrate may be tested, post-electroplating, with respect to the reference
  electrode. More specifically, existing systems for performing measurements of the sensor
  substrate which provide an average roughness of the electrode surface sample a small area
  from each electrode to determine the average roughness (Ra) of that small area. For example,
  currently, the Zygo Non-contact Interferometer is used to quantify and evaluate electrode
  surface area. The Zygo interferometer measures a small area of the counter and working
  electrodes and provides an average roughness value.           This measurement correlates the
  roughness of each sensor electrode to their actual electrochemical surface area. Due to the
  limitations of systems that are currently used, it is not possible, from a manufacturing
 throughput point of view, to measure the entire electrode surface, as this would be an
 extremely time-consuming endeavor.
  [004931      In order to measure the entire electrode in a meaningful and quantitative manner,
 an EIS-based methodology for measuring surface area has been developed herein that is
 faster than current, e.g., Zygo-based, testing, and more meaningful from a sensor
 performance perspective. Specifically, the use of EIS in electrode surface characterization is
 advantageous in several respects.            First, by allowing multiple plates to be tested
 simultaneously, EIS provides a faster method to test electrodes, thereby providing for higher
 efficiency and throughput, while being cost-effective and maintaining quality.
 [00494]     Second, EIS is a direct electrochemical measurement on the electrode under test,
i.e., it allows measurement of EIS-based parameter(s) for the electrode and correlates the
measured value to the true electrochemical surface area of the electrode. Thus, instead of
taking an average height difference over a small section of the electrode, the EIS technique

                                                  129
   measures the double layer capacitance (which is directly related to surface area) over the
   whole electrode surface area and, as such, is more representative of the properties of the
   electrode, including the actual surface area.     Third, EIS testing is non-destructive and, as
   such, does not affect future sensor performance. Fourth, EIS is particularly useful where the
   surface area to be measured is either fragile or difficult to easily manipulate.
   [00495]     For purposes of this embodiment of the invention, the EIS-based parameter of
  interest is the Imaginary impedance (Zim), which may be obtained, as discussed previously,
  based on measurements of the impedance magnitude (IZI) in ohms and the phase angle (C) in
  degrees of the electrode immersed in an electrolyte. It has been found that, in addition to
  being a high-speed process, testing using the electrochemical impedance of both the Counter
  Electrode (CE) and the WE is an accurate method of measuring the surface area of each
  electrode.   This is also important because, although the role of electrode size in glucose
  sensor performance is dictated, at least in part, by the oxidation of the hydrogen peroxide
 produced by the enzymatic reaction of glucose with GOX, experiments have shown that an
 increased WE surface area reduces the number of low start-up events and improves sensor
 responsiveness--both of which are among the potential failure modes that were previously
 discussed at some length.
  [00496]     Returning to the imaginary impedance as the EIS-based parameter of interest, it
 has been found that the key parameters that drive the electrode surface area, and
 consequently, its imaginary impedance values are: (i) Electroplating conditions (time in
 seconds and current in micro Amperes); (ii) EIS frequency that best correlates to surface area;
 (iii) the number of measurements conducted on a single electrode associated to the electrolyte
 used in the EIS system; and (iv) DC Voltage Bias.
 [004971      In connection with the above parameters, experiments have shown that using
Platinum plating solution as the electrolyte presents a poor correlation between the imaginary
impedance and surface area across the entire spectrum.              However, using Sulfuric Acid
(H2SO4) as the electrolyte presents very good correlation data, and using Phosphate Buffered
saline Solution with zero mg/ml of Glucose (PBS-0) presents even better correlation data,
between imaginary impedance and Surface Area Ratio (SAR), especially between the
relatively-lower frequencies of 100Hz and 5Hz. Moreover, fitted regression analysis using a
cubic regression model indicates that, in embodiments of the invention, the best correlation
may occur at a frequency of 10Hz. In addition, it has been found that reducing the Bias

                                                    130
   voltage from 535mV to zero dramatically reduces the day-to-day variability in the imaginary
   impedance measurement.
   [00498]    Using the above parameters, the limits of acceptability of values of imaginary
   impedance can be defined for a given sensor design. Thus, for example, for the Comfort
  Sensor manufactured by Medtronic Minimed, the imaginary impedance measured between
  the WE and the RE (Platinum mesh) must be greater than, or equal to, -100 Ohms. In other
  words, sensors with an imaginary impedance value (for the WE) of less than -100 Ohms will
  be rejected.    For the WE, an impedance value of greater than, or equal to, -100 Ohms
  corresponds to a surface area that is equal to, or greater than, that specified by an equivalent
  Ra measurement of greater than 0.55 um.
  [004991      Similarly, the imaginary impedance measured between the CE and the RE
  (Platinum mesh) must be greater than, or equal to, -60 Ohms, such that sensors with an
  imaginary impedance value (for the CE) of less than -60 Ohms will be rejected. For the CE,
  an impedance value of greater than, or equal to, -60 Ohms corresponds to a surface area that
 is equal to, or greater than, that specified by an equivalent Ra measurement greater than 0.50
 um.
  [005001     While the description refers to particular embodiments of the present invention, it
 will be understood that many modifications may be made without departing from the spirit
 thereof. Additional steps and changes to the order of the algorithms can be made while still
 performing the key teachings of the present invention. Thus, the accompanying claims are
 intended to cover such modifications as would fall within the true scope and spirit of the
 present invention. The presently disclosed embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in
 all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, the scope of the invention being indicated by the
 appended claims rather than the description. All changes that come within the meaning of,
 and range of, equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.
Further embodiments, aspects, and/or arrangements forming part of the present disclosure are
set out in the numbered paragraphs below:
Paragraph 1. A method of calculating a single, fused sensor glucose value based on
respective glucose measurement signals of a plurality of redundant sensing electrodes,
comprising:

                                                   131
            performing respective electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedures for
   each of the plurality of redundant sensing electrodes to obtain values of at least one
   impedance-based parameter for each said sensing electrode;
           measuring the electrode current (sig) for each of the plurality of redundant sensing
  electrodes;
           independently calibrating each of the measured Isigs to obtain respective calibrated
  sensor glucose values;
           performing a bound check and a noise check on said measured Isig and said values of
  the at least one impedance-based parameter and assigning a bound-check reliability index and
  a noise-check reliability index to each said sensing electrode;
           performing signal-dip analysis based on one or more of said at least one impedance
  based parameter and assigning a dip reliability index to each said sensing electrode;
          performing sensitivity-loss analysis based on one or more of said at least one
 impedance-based parameter and assigning a sensitivity-loss index to each said sensing
 electrode;
          for each of the plurality of electrodes, calculating a total reliability index based on
 said electrode's bound-check reliability index, noise-check reliability index, dip reliability
 index, and sensitivity-loss reliability index;
          for each of the plurality of electrodes, calculating a weight based on said electrode's
 total reliability index; and
          calculating said single, fused sensor glucose value based on the respective weights
 and calibrated sensor glucose values of each of the plurality of redundant sensing electrodes.
Paragraph 2.      The method of paragraph 1, wherein each said Isig is calibrated by using a
blood glucose (BG) value.
Paragraph 3.      The method of paragraph 1, wherein, prior to calibrating the measured Isigs,
said Isigs are first filtered to remove any EIS-induced spikes therein.
Paragraph 4.      The method of paragraph 1, wherein said at least one impedance-based
parameter includes at least one of real impedance, imaginary impedance, and Nyquist slope.

                                                132
  Paragraph 5. The method of paragraph 4, wherein values are obtained for real impedance at
   1kHz and for real impedance at 0.105Hz.
  Paragraph 6.   The method of paragraph 4, wherein values are obtained for imaginary
  impedance at 1kHz and for imaginary impedance at 0.105Hz.
  Paragraph 7.   The method of paragraph 1, wherein said bound check and noise check
  include determining whether each said measured Isig and said values of the at least one
  impedance-based parameter fall within respective predetermined ranges for said bound check
  and noise check.
 Paragraph 8.    The method of paragraph 1, wherein, prior to calculation of said single, fused
 sensor glucose value, a low-pass filter is applied to the total reliability index for each of the
 plurality of redundant electrodes.
 Paragraph 9.    The method of paragraph 1, wherein a low-pass filter is applied to the said
 single, fused sensor glucose value.
 Paragraph 10. The method of paragraph 1, wherein each said respective EIS procedure is
 performed for a range of frequencies.
 Paragraph 11. The method of paragraph 1, wherein one or more of the at least one
 impedance-based parameter are substantially glucose-independent.
 Paragraph 12. The method of paragraph 1, wherein said signal-dip analysis is additionally
 based on the measured Isig for each said electrode.
 Paragraph 13. The method of paragraph 1, wherein said signal-dip analysis is performed
 based on each said electrode's real impedance at about 1kHz.
 Paragraph 14. The method of paragraph 1, wherein said sensitivity-loss analysis is performed
based on each said electrode's imaginary impedance at about 1kHz over a period of time.
Paragraph 15. A method of detecting an interferent in close proximity to an electrode of a
glucose sensor that is implanted or subcutaneously disposed in the body of a patient,
comprising:
        periodically performing an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure
to obtain values of impedance magnitude for said electrode;

                                                 133
          obtaining values of measured current (Isig) for said electrode;
          monitoring said (Isig) and said values of impedance magnitude for said electrode over
 time;
          detecting a spike in the monitored Isig and determining whether, at about the time of
  said Isig spike, there is also a large increase in the monitored value of the impedance
 magnitude; and
          determining that an interferent exists in close proximity to the electrode if, at about
 the time of said spike in Isig, there is also a large increase in the monitored values of the
 impedance magnitude.
 Paragraph 16. The method of paragraph 15, wherein the interferent is m-cresol.
 Paragraph 17. The method of paragraph 15, wherein the electrode is disposed inside an
 insulin-infusion catheter.
 Paragraph 18. The method of paragraph 17, wherein the time interval between consecutive
 applications of the EIS procedure is determined based on the timing of insulin delivery
through said insulin-infusion catheter.
Paragraph 19. The method of paragraph 15, wherein said values of impedance magnitude are
obtained at a frequency of about 1 kHz.
Paragraph 20. The method of paragraph 15, wherein, after said sudden spike, the Isig drops
back to approximately its pre-spike level and is no longer responsive to glucose for a period
of time thereafter.
Paragraph 21. The method of paragraph 20, wherein said period of time is less than one hour.
Paragraph 22. The method of paragraph 20, wherein the duration of said period of time is
dependent upon the rate of diffusion of said interferent through the patient's body.
Paragraph 23. The method of paragraph 20, wherein the patient is notified that the sensor
will not provide glucose measurements for the duration of said time period.
Paragraph 24. A method of testing the surface area characteristics of an electroplated
electrode, comprising:

                                                   134
           performing an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure to obtain a
  value of an impedance-related parameter for said electrode;
           correlating said obtained value to said electrode's electrochemical surface area;
           based on said correlation, determining lower and upper threshold values for said value
  of the impedance-related parameter; and
           determining whether the electrode is acceptable based on whether said value of the
  impedance-related parameter falls within said lower and upper threshold values.
  Paragraph 25. The method of paragraph 24, wherein the electrode is tested in a sulfuric acid
 solution.
 Paragraph 26. The method of paragraph 24, wherein the electrode is tested in a Phosphate
 Buffered saline Solution with zero mg/ml of Glucose (PBS-0).
 Paragraph 27. The method of paragraph 24, wherein said EIS procedure is performed for a
 range of frequencies between about 5Hz and about 100Hz.
 Paragraph 28. The method of paragraph 24, wherein the impedance-related parameter is
imaginary impedance.
Paragraph 29. A method of calibrating a sensor during a period of sensor transition, the
method comprising:
          defining an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS)-based sensor status vector
(V) for each one of a plurality of sensor current (Isig)-blood glucose (BG) pairs;
         monitoring the status vectors for the plurality of Isig-BG pairs over time;
         detecting when there is a difference between a first status vector for a first Isig-BG
pair and a subsequent status vector for a subsequent Isig-BG pair, said first Isig-BG pair
having assigned thereto a first offset value; and
         if a magnitude of said difference is larger than a predetermined threshold, assigning a
dynamic offset value for said subsequent Isig-BG pair that is different from said first offset
value so as to maintain a substantially linear relationship between said subsequent Isig and
said subsequent BG.

                                               135
  Paragraph 30. The method of paragraph 29, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status
 vector includes impedance and Nyquist slope as elements of the vector.
 Paragraph 31. The method of paragraph 29, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status
 vector includes 1kHz real impedance as an element of the vector.
 Paragraph 32. The method of paragraph 29, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status
 vector includes 1kHz imaginary impedance as an element of the vector.
 Paragraph 33. The method of paragraph 29, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status
 vector includes Nyquist slope as an element of the vector.
 Paragraph 34. The method of paragraph 29, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the elements of
 the sensor status vector include 1kHz real impedance, IkHz imaginary impedance, Nyquist
 slope, and Nyquist R2 .
 Paragraph 35. The method of paragraph 29, wherein the sensor status vector includes a
 plurality of EIS-based elements, and wherein the plurality of elements are substantially
 glucose-independent.
 Paragraph 36. A method of calibrating a sensor, comprising:
         performing an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure for a
working electrode of a sensor to obtain values of at least one impedance-based parameter for
said working electrode;
         performing a bound check on said values of the at least one impedance-based
parameter to determine whether said at least one impedance-based parameter is in-bounds
and, based on said bound check, calculating a reliability-index value for said working
electrode; and
         determining, based on the value of said reliability index, whether calibration should
be performed, or whether calibration should be delayed until a later time.
Paragraph 37. The method of paragraph 36, wherein said at least one impedance-based
parameter is substantially glucose-independent.
Paragraph 38. The method of paragraph 36, wherein said at least one impedance-based
parameter includes real impedance.

                                                  136
  Paragraph 39. The method of paragraph 38, wherein the real impedance is measured at 1kHz.
  Paragraph 40. The method of paragraph 39, wherein said at least one impedance-based
 parameter further includes Nyquist slope.
 Paragraph 41. The method of paragraph 40, wherein calibration is performed if the value of
 said reliability index is high, and wherein calibration is delayed if the value of said reliability
 index is low.
 Paragraph 42. The method of paragraph 41, wherein, if the value of said reliability index is
 low, then the trends of the IkHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope are monitored to
 estimate when respective values of the lkHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope will be in
 bounds.
 Paragraph 43. The method of paragraph 42, wherein, if it is estimated that respective values
 of the IkHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope will be in-bounds in a relatively short
 amount of time, calibration is delayed until said respective values are in-bounds.
Paragraph 44. The method of paragraph 43, wherein, if it is estimated that it will take a
relatively long time for respective values of the 1kHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope
to be in-bounds, the sensor is calibrated without further delay.
Paragraph 45. The method of paragraph 36, wherein said sensor includes a plurality of
redundant working electrodes.
Paragraph 46. The method of paragraph 45, wherein said EIS procedure is performed for
each of said plurality of redundant working electrodes to obtain values of at least one
impedance-based parameter for each said working electrode, wherein said bound check is
performed on said values of the at least one impedance-based parameter for each said
working electrode, and wherein a respective reliability index is calculated for each of the
working electrodes.
Paragraph 47. The method of paragraph 46, wherein, for each of the working electrodes,
each said respective reliability index is indicative of said electrode's start-up characteristics.

                                                    137
   Paragraph 48. The method of paragraph 47, further including, based on said respective
   reliability indices, selecting one of the plurality of redundant electrodes for obtaining glucose
   measurements.
   Paragraph 49, A method for real-time detection of low start-up for a working electrode of a
   sensor, the method comprising:
            inserting the sensor into subcutaneous tissue;
           performing a first electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure to
   generate a first set of impedance-related data for said working electrode; and
           based on the first set of impedance-related data, determining whether said working
  electrode is experiencing low start-up.
  Paragraph 50. The method of paragraph 49, wherein said EIS procedure is performed for a
  predetermined range of frequencies.
  Paragraph 51. The method of paragraph 49, wherein the first set of impedance-related data
  includes values for at least one of real impedance and imaginary impedance.
 Paragraph 52. The method of paragraph 49, wherein the first set of impedance-related data
 includes values for at least one impedance-related parameter that is substantially glucose
 independent.
 Paragraph 53. The method of paragraph 49, wherein said determination is made based on
 respective values of real impedance and Nyquist slope.
 Paragraph 54. The method of paragraph 53, wherein the real impedance is measured at a
 frequency of about IkHz.
Paragraph 55. The method of paragraph 54, wherein the Nyquist slope is calculated at
relatively-lower frequencies.
Paragraph 56. The        method of paragraph        49,   further including performing,     after a
predetermined time interval, a second EIS procedure to generate a second set of impedance
related data for said electrode, wherein said determination is made based on the first and
second sets of impedance-related data.

                                                  138
   Paragraph 57. The method of paragraph 49, wherein the sensor includes a plurality of
   working electrodes, said EIS procedure is performed for each of said plurality of electrodes
   so as to generate a respective first set of impedance-related data for each of the plurality of
  working electrodes, and said determination is made based on said first sets of impedance
  related data for said plurality of electrodes.
  Paragraph 58. A method for real-time detection of a signal dip for a working electrode of a
  sensor, the method comprising:
           periodically performing an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure
  to obtain values of real impedance for said electrode;
          monitoring said values of real impedance over time; and
          based on said values of real impedance, determining whether a dip exists in the signal
  generated by said working electrode.
  Paragraph 59. The method of paragraph 58, wherein said EIS procedure is performed for a
 predetermined range of frequencies.
 Paragraph 60. The method of paragraph 58, wherein said values of real impedance are
 obtained for a range of frequencies where real impedance for the working electrode is
 substantially glucose-independent.
 Paragraph 61. The method of paragraph 60, wherein said values for real impedance are
 obtained at 1kHz.
 Paragraph 62. The method of paragraph 58, further including measuring the electrode's
 current (Isig) over time, wherein a signal dip is determined to exist if, as the Isig decreases,
 the real impedance increases over time.
Paragraph 63. A method for real-time detection of sensitivity loss for a working electrode of
a sensor, the method comprising:
         periodically performing an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure
to generate multiple sets of impedance-related data for said working electrode;
         calculating values of one or more impedance-related parameters based on said
multiple sets of impedance-related data;

                                                 139
           monitoring said values over time; and
           based on said values, determining whether said working electrode is experiencing
   sensitivity loss.
   Paragraph 64. The method of paragraph 63, wherein each said periodic EIS procedure is
   performed for a predetermined range of frequencies.
   Paragraph 65, The method of paragraph 63, wherein each of the multiple sets of impedance
  related data includes data for at least one impedance-related parameter that is substantially
   glucose-independent.
  Paragraph 66. The method of paragraph 63, wherein said at least one or more impedance
  related parameters include imaginary impedance, real impedance, and phase angle.
  Paragraph 67. The method of paragraph 66, wherein values are calculated for 1kHz
  imaginary impedance, 0.1Hz real impedance, and relatively-higher frequency phase angle for
  said electrode.
  Paragraph 68. The method of paragraph 67, wherein, based on said calculated values of 1kHz
 imaginary impedance, 0.1Hz real impedance, and relatively-higher frequency phase angle, it
 is determined whether said electrode is experiencing an oxygen deficiency-led loss of
 sensitivity.
 Paragraph 69. The method of paragraph 68, wherein the sensor includes a counter electrode,
 the method further comprising verifying said loss of sensitivity based on whether the voltage
 of the counter electrode rails.
 Paragraph 70. The method of paragraph 63, wherein said at least one or more impedance
related parameters include imaginary impedance and real impedance.
Paragraph 71. The method of paragraph 70, wherein values are calculated for 1kHz
imaginary impedance, 1kHz real impedance, and 0.1Hz real impedance.
Paragraph 72. The method of paragraph 71, wherein, based on said calculated values of 1kHz
imaginary impedance, 1kHz real impedance, and 0.1Hz real impedance, it is determined
whether said electrode is experiencing sensitivity loss due to bio-fouling.

                                             140
Paragraph 73. The method of paragraph 72, wherein the sensor includes a plurality of
redundant working electrodes, wherein said periodic EIS procedure is performed for each of
the plurality of working electrodes to generate multiple sets of impedance-related data for
each said working electrode, wherein said values of one or more impedance-related
parameters are calculated for each said working electrode, and wherein said sensitivity-loss
determination is made for each working electrode by comparing said values for at least one
working electrode to said values for at least a second working electrode of the plurality of
electrodes over time.

                                                141
CLAIMS
       1. A method of calibrating a sensor, the method comprising:
      defining an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (ElS)-based sensor status vector
(V) for each one of a plurality of sensor current (Isig)-blood glucose (BG) pairs;
      monitoring the status vectors for the plurality of Isig-BG pairs over time;
      detecting when there is a difference between a first status vector for a first Isig-BG pair
and a subsequent status vector for a subsequent Isig-BG pair, said first Isig-BG pair having
assigned thereto a first offset value; and
      if a magnitude of said difference is larger than a predetermined threshold, assigning a
dynamic offset value for said subsequent Isig-BG pair that is different from said first offset
value so as to maintain a substantially linear relationship between said subsequent Isig and
said subsequent BG.
      2. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status vector
includes impedance and Nyquist slope as elements of the vector.
      3. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status vector
includes 1kHz real impedance as an element of the vector.
      4. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status vector
includes 1kHz imaginary impedance as an element of the vector.
      5. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the sensor status vector
includes Nyquist slope as an element of the vector.
      6. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each Isig-BG pair, the elements of the sensor
status vector include 1kHz real impedance, 1kHz imaginary impedance, Nyquist slope, and
Nyquist R2.
      7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor status vector includes a plurality of EIS
based elements, and wherein the plurality of elements are substantially glucose-independent.
      8. A method of calibrating a sensor, comprising:

                                                 142
       performing an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) procedure for a working
electrode of a sensor to obtain values of at least one impedance-based parameter for said
working electrode;
       performing a bound check on said values of the at least one impedance-based parameter
to determine whether said at least one impedance-based parameter is in-bounds
       and, based on said bound check, calculating a reliability-index value for said working
electrode; and
       determining, based on the value of said reliability index, whether calibration should be
performed, or whether calibration should be delayed until a later time.
       9. The method of claim 8, wherein said at least one impedance-based parameter is
substantially glucose-independent.
       10. The method of claim 8, wherein said at least one impedance-based parameter
includes real impedance.
       11. The method of claim 10, wherein the real impedance is measured at 1kHz.
       12. The method of claim 11, wherein said at least one impedance-based parameter
further includes Nyquist slope.
       13. The method of claim 12, wherein calibration is performed if the value of said
reliability index is high, and wherein calibration is delayed if the value of said reliability
index is low.
       14. The method of claim 13, wherein, if the value of said reliability index is low, then
the trends of the 1kHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope are monitored to estimate when
respective values of the 1kHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope will be in-bounds.
       15. The method of claim 14, wherein, if it is estimated that respective values of the
 1kHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope will be in-bounds in a relatively short amount of
time, calibration is delayed until said respective values are in-bounds.
       16. The method of claim 15, wherein, if it is estimated that it will take a relatively long
time for respective values of the 1kHz real impedance and the Nyquist slope to be in-bounds,
the sensor is calibrated without further delay.

                                                 143
       17. The method of claim 8, wherein said sensor includes a plurality of redundant
working electrodes.
       18. The method of claim 17, wherein said EIS procedure is performed for each of said
plurality of redundant working electrodes to obtain values of at least one impedance-based
parameter for each said working electrode, wherein said bound check is performed on said
values of the at least one impedance-based parameter for each said working electrode, and
wherein a respective reliability index is calculated for each of the working electrodes.
       19. The method of claim 18, wherein, for each of the working electrodes, each said
respective reliability index is indicative of said electrode's start-up characteristics.
       20. The method of claim 19, further including, based on said respective reliability
indices, selecting one of the plurality of redundant electrodes for obtaining glucose
measurements.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
