                                            ABSTRACT
A method is performed at an electronic device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and
one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts. The method includes displaying, on the
display, a user interface for an application; detecting an edge input that includes detecting a
change in a characteristic intensity of a contact proximate to an edge of the touch-sensitive
surface; and, in response to detecting the edge input: in accordance with a determination that
the edge input meets system-gesture criteria, performing an operation that is independent of
the application, wherein: the system-gesture criteria include intensity criteria; the system
gesture criteria include a location criterion that is met when the intensity criteria for the
contact are met while the contact is within a first region relative to the touch-sensitive
surface; and the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is determined based on one
or more characteristics of the contact.

                               Devices and Methods for
                       Navigating Between User Interfaces
                                   RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]          Incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2016/033541
(published as WO<removed-apn>), filed on <removed-date>.
[0001A]         This application is also a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, filed on 17 February 2017.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]          This relates generally to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces,
including but not limited to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces that detect inputs
for navigating between user interfaces.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0003]          The use of touch-sensitive surfaces as input devices for computers and other
electronic computing devices has increased significantly in recent years. Exemplary touch
sensitive surfaces include touchpads and touch-screen displays. Such surfaces are widely
used to navigate between related and unrelated user interfaces (e.g., between user interfaces
for different applications and/or within a hierarchy of user interfaces within a single
application).
[0004]          Exemplary user interface hierarchies include groups of related user interfaces
used for: organizing files and applications; storing and/or displaying digital images, editable
documents (e.g., word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation documents), and/or non
editable documents (e.g., secured files and/or .pdf documents); recording and/or playing
video and/or music; text-based communication (e.g., e-mail, texts, tweets, and social
networking); voice and/or video communication (e.g., phone calls and video conferencing);
and web browsing. A user will, in some circumstances, need to perform such user interface
navigations within or between a file management program (e.g., Finder from Apple Inc. of
Cupertino, California), an image management application (e.g., Photos from Apple Inc. of
Cupertino, California), a digital content (e.g., videos and music) management application
(e.g., iTunes from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), a drawing application, a presentation
                                                    1

application (e.g., Keynote from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), a word processing
application (e.g., Pages from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), or a spreadsheet
application (e.g., Numbers from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California).
[00051           But methods for performing these navigations and animating the transition
between related user interfaces in a user interface hierarchy are cumbersome and inefficient.
In addition, these methods take longer than necessary, thereby wasting energy. This latter
consideration is particularly important in battery-operated devices.
[00061           Additionally, abrupt transitions between different user interfaces can be
distracting and jarring for users, reducing the efficiency and enjoyment of the user when
using the device.
[00071           Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction
or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant,
and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                           SUMMARY
[00081           Accordingly, there is a need for electronic devices with faster, more efficient
methods and interfaces for navigating between user interfaces. Such methods and interfaces
optionally complement or replace conventional methods for navigating between user
interfaces. Such methods and interfaces reduce the number, extent, and/or nature of the inputs
from a user and produce a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated
devices, such methods and interfaces conserve power and increase the time between battery
charges.
[0009]           The above deficiencies and other problems associated with user interfaces for
electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces are reduced or eliminated by the disclosed
devices. In some embodiments, the device is a desktop computer. In some embodiments, the
device is portable (e.g., a notebook computer, tablet computer, or handheld device). In some
embodiments, the device is a personal electronic device (e.g., a wearable electronic device,
such as a watch). In some embodiments, the device has a touchpad. In some embodiments,
the device has a touch-sensitive display (also known as a "touch screen" or "touch-screen
display"). In some embodiments, the device has a graphical user interface (GUI), one or more
processors, memory and one or more modules, programs or sets of instructions stored in the
                                                    2

memory for performing multiple functions. In some embodiments, the user interacts with the
GUI primarily through stylus and/or finger contacts and gestures on the touch-sensitive
surface. In some embodiments, the functions optionally include image editing, drawing,
presenting, word processing, spreadsheet making, game playing, telephoning, video
conferencing, e-mailing, instant messaging, workout support, digital photographing, digital
videoing, web browsing, digital music playing, note taking, and/or digital video playing.
Executable instructions for performing these functions are, optionally, included in a non
transitory computer readable storage medium or other computer program product configured
for execution by one or more processors.
[0010]           In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for navigating
between user interfaces, comprising: at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display,
and one or more sensors that are configured to detect intensities of contacts with the touch
sensitive display: displaying, on the touch-sensitive display, a user interface of an application;
while displaying the user interface of the application, detecting an input that includes
detecting a contact at a first location on the touch-sensitive display, wherein the contact
remains stationary at the first location prior to lift-off of the first contact, and wherein the
touch-sensitive display includes an open-application-selection region; and, in response to
detecting the input on the touch-sensitive display: in accordance with a determination that the
input occurred inside of the open-application-selection region and that the input meets
intensity criteria, including a criterion that is met when the input includes an increase in
intensity of the contact above a first intensity threshold, displaying an open-application
selection user interface that includes representations of a plurality of open applications,
including one or more representations of open applications that were not displayed prior to
detecting the input on the touch-sensitive display; and in accordance with a determination
that the input occurred inside of the open-application-selection region and that the input does
not meet the intensity criteria, performing a first operation within the application based on the
input, wherein performing the first operation includes changing the user interface of the
application without displaying the open-application-selection user interface.
[0011]           In a second aspect, the present invention provides a computer readable storage
medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions
which, when executed by an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display and one or more
sensors to detect intensities of contacts with the touch-sensitive display, cause the electronic
device to perform the method according to the first aspect described above.
                                                     3

[00121           In a third aspect, the present invention provides an electronic device,
comprising: a touch-sensitive display; one or more sensors to detect intensities of contacts
with the touch-sensitive display; one or more processors; memory; and one or more
programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be
executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for
performing the method according to the first aspect described above.
[0013]           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying a
plurality of user interface representations in a stack on the display. At least a first user
interface representation and a second user interface representation disposed above the first
user interface representation in the stack, are visible on the display. The second user interface
representation is offset from the first user interface representation in a first direction. The
second user interface representation partially exposes the first user interface representation.
The method further includes detecting a first drag gesture by a first contact at a location on
the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a location of the first user interface
representation on the display, the first contact moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a
direction that corresponds to the first direction on the display. The method also includes,
while the first contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the
location of the first user interface representation on the display and moving across the touch
sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the first direction on the display: moving
the first user interface representation in the first direction on the display at a first speed in
accordance with a speed of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface, and moving the
second user interface representation, disposed above the first user interface representation, in
the first direction at a second speed greater than the first speed.
[0014]           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying a first user
interface on the display. The method further includes, while displaying the first user interface
on the display, detecting an input by a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface. The
method also includes, while detecting the input by the first contact, displaying a first user
interface representation and at least a second user interface representation on the display. The
method also includes while displaying the first user interface representation and at least the
second user interface representation on the display, detecting termination of the input by the
                                                     4

first contact. In response to detecting termination of the input by the first contact: in
accordance with a determination that the first contact had a characteristic intensity during the
input that was below a predetermined intensity threshold and the first contact moved during
the input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a predefined
direction on the display, displaying a second user interface that corresponds to the second
user interface representation; and in accordance with a determination that the first contact had
a characteristic intensity during the input that was below the predetermined intensity
threshold and the first contact did not move during the input in a direction across the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to the predefined direction on the display, redisplaying the
first user interface.
[0015]           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying a first user
interface on the display. The method further includes, while displaying the first user interface
on the display, detecting, on the touch-sensitive surface, an input by a first contact that
includes a period of increasing intensity of the first contact. The method also includes, in
response to detecting the input by the first contact that includes the period of increasing
intensity of the first contact, displaying a first user interface representation for the first user
interface and a second user interface representation for a second user interface on the display,
where the first user interface representation is displayed over the second user interface
representation and partially exposes the second user interface representation. The method also
includes, while displaying the first user interface representation and the second user interface
representation on the display, detecting that, during the period of increasing intensity of the
first contact, the intensity of the first contact meets one or more predetermined intensity
criteria. The method further includes, in response to detecting that the intensity of the first
contact meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria: ceasing to display the first
user interface representation and the second user interface representation on the display, and
displaying the second user interface on the display.
[00161           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying a plurality of user
interface representations in a stack on the display. At least a first user interface
representation, a second user interface representation, and a third user interface representation
                                                     5

are visible on the display. The first user interface representation is laterally offset from the
second user interface representation in a first direction and partially exposes the second user
interface representation. The second user interface representation is laterally offset from the
third user interface representation in the first direction and partially exposes the third user
interface representation. The method further includes detecting an input by a first contact on
the touch-sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the second user interface
representation on the display. The method also includes, in accordance with detecting an
increase in intensity of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface at the location that
corresponds to the second user interface representation on the display, increasing an area of
the second user interface representation that is exposed from behind the first user interface
representation by increasing the lateral offset between the first user interface representation
and the second user interface representation.
[00171           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying a
plurality of user interface representations in a stack on the display. At least a first user
interface representation, a second user interface representation, and a third user interface
representation are visible on the display. The second user interface representation is laterally
offset from the first user interface representation in a first direction and partially exposes the
first user interface representation. The third user interface representation is laterally offset
from the second user interface representation in the first direction and partially exposes the
second user interface representation. The method further includes detecting a drag gesture by
a first contact that moves across the touch-sensitive surface, where movement of the drag
gesture by the first contact corresponds to movement across one or more of the user interface
representations in the stack. The method also includes, during the drag gesture, when the first
contact moves over a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the first user
interface representation on the display, revealing more of the first user interface
representation from behind the second user interface representation on the display.
[00181           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying a first user
interface of a first application on the display, the first user interface including a backwards
navigation control. The method further includes, while displaying the first user interface of
the first application on the display, detecting a gesture by a first contact on the touch-sensitive
                                                    6

surface at a location that corresponds to the backwards navigation control on the display. The
method also includes, in response to detecting the gesture by the first contact on the touch
sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the backwards navigation control: in
accordance with a determination that the gesture by the first contact is a gesture with an
intensity of the first contact that meets one or more predetermined intensity criteria, replacing
display of the first user interface of the first application with display of a plurality of
representations of user interfaces of the first application, including a representation of the first
user interface and a representation of a second user interface; and, in accordance with a
determination that the gesture by the first contact is a gesture with an intensity of the first
contact that does not meet the one or more predetermined intensity criteria, replacing display
of the first user interface of the first application with display of the second user interface of
the first application.
[0019]           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying, on the display, a
user interface for an application; detecting an edge input that includes detecting a change in a
characteristic intensity of a contact proximate to an edge of the touch-sensitive surface; and,
in response to detecting the edge input: in accordance with a determination that the edge
input meets system-gesture criteria, performing an operation that is independent of the
application, wherein: the system-gesture criteria include intensity criteria; the system-gesture
criteria include a location criterion that is met when the intensity criteria for the contact are
met while the contact is within a first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface; and the
first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is determined based on one or more
characteristics of the contact.
[0020]           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying, on the display, a
first view of a first application; while displaying the first view, detecting a first portion of a
first input that includes detecting a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface; in response to
detecting the first portion of the first input, in accordance with a determination that the first
portion of the first input meets application-switching criteria, concurrently displaying, on the
display, portions of a plurality of application views including the first application view and a
second application view; while concurrently displaying the portions of the plurality of
                                                     7

application views, detecting a second portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first
contact; and in response to detecting the second portion of the first input that includes liftoff
of the first contact: in accordance with a determination that the second portion of the first
input meets first-view display criteria, wherein the first-view display criteria include a
criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a first region of the
touch-sensitive surface, ceasing to display the portion of the second application view and
displaying the first application view on the display; and in accordance with a determination
that the second portion of the first input meets multi-view display criteria, wherein the multi
view display criteria includes a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is
detected in a second region of the touch-sensitive surface that is different from the first region
of the touch-sensitive surface, maintaining concurrent display of at least a portion of the first
application view and at least a portion of the second application view on the display after
detecting the liftoff of the first contact.
[0021]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit and the touch-sensitive surface unit. The
processing unit is configured to: enable display of a plurality of user interface representations
in a stack on the display unit. At least a first user interface representation and a second user
interface representation disposed above the first user interface representation in the stack, are
visible on the display unit. The second user interface representation is offset from the first
user interface representation in a first direction. The second user interface representation
partially exposes the first user interface representation. The processing unit is further
configured to detect a first drag gesture by a first contact at a location on the touch-sensitive
surface unit that corresponds to a location of the first user interface representation on the
display unit, the first contact moving across the touch-sensitive surface unit in a direction that
corresponds to the first direction on the display unit. The processing unit is also configured
to, while the first contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface unit that corresponds
to the location of the first user interface representation on the display unit and moving across
the touch-sensitive surface unit in a direction that corresponds to the first direction on the
display unit: move the first user interface representation in the first direction on the display
unit at a first speed in accordance with a speed of the first contact on the touch-sensitive
surface unit; and move the second user interface representation, disposed above the first user
interface representation, in the first direction at a second speed greater than the first speed.
                                                     8

[00221           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the
one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display a first user
interface on the display unit. The processing unit is further configured to, while displaying
the first user interface on the display unit, detect an input by a first contact on the touch
sensitive surface unit. The processing unit is also configured to, while detecting the input by
the first contact, enable display of a first user interface representation and at least a second
user interface representation on the display unit. The processing unit is further configured to,
while displaying the first user interface representation and at least the second user interface
representation on the display unit, detect termination of the input by the first contact. The
processing unit is also configured to, in response to detecting termination of the input by the
first contact: in accordance with a determination that the first contact had a characteristic
intensity during the input that was below a predetermined intensity threshold and the first
contact moved during the input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to a predefined direction on the display, enable display of a second user interface
that corresponds to the second user interface representation; and, in accordance with a
determination that the first contact had a characteristic intensity during the input that was
below the predetermined intensity threshold and the first contact did not move during the
input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the predefined
direction on the display, enable redisplay of the first user interface.
[00231           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the
one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display of a first user
interface on the display unit. The processing unit is further configured to, while displaying
the first user interface on the display unit, detect, on the touch-sensitive surface unit, an input
by a first contact that includes a period of increasing intensity of the first contact. The
processing unit is also configured to, in response to detecting the input by the first contact
that includes the period of increasing intensity of the first contact: enable display of a first
user interface representation for the first user interface and a second user interface
                                                     9

representation for a second user interface on the display unit, where the first user interface
representation is displayed over the second user interface representation and partially exposes
the second user interface representation. The processing unit is further configured to, while
displaying the first user interface representation and the second user interface representation
on the display unit, detect that, during the period of increasing intensity of the first contact,
the intensity of the first contact meets one or more predetermined intensity criteria. The
processing unit is also configures to, in response to detecting that the intensity of the first
contact meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria: cease to enable display of the
first user interface representation and the second user interface representation on the display
unit, and enable display of the second user interface on the display.
[0024]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the
one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display of a plurality of
user interface representations in a stack on the display unit. At least a first user interface
representation, a second user interface representation, and a third user interface representation
are visible on the display unit. The first user interface representation is laterally offset from
the second user interface representation in a first direction and partially exposes the second
user interface representation. The second user interface representation is laterally offset from
the third user interface representation in the first direction and partially exposes the third user
interface representation. The processing unit is further configured to detect an input by a first
contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit at a location that corresponds to the second user
interface representation on the display unit. The processing unit is also configured to, in
accordance with detecting an increase in intensity of the first contact on the touch-sensitive
surface unit at the location that corresponds to the second user interface representation on the
display unit, increasing an area of the second user interface representation that is exposed
from behind the first user interface representation by increasing the lateral offset between the
first user interface representation and the second user interface representation.
[0025]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the
                                                    10

one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display of a plurality of
user interface representations in a stack on the display unit. At least a first user interface
representation, a second user interface representation, and a third user interface representation
are visible on the display unit. The second user interface representation is laterally offset
from the first user interface representation in a first direction and partially exposes the first
user interface representation. The third user interface representation is laterally offset from
the second user interface representation in the first direction and partially exposes the second
user interface representation. The processing unit is further configured to detect a drag
gesture by a first contact that moves across the touch-sensitive surface unit, where movement
of the drag gesture by the first contact corresponds to movement across one or more of the
user interface representations in the stack. The processing unit is also configured to, during
the drag gesture, when the first contact moves over a location on the touch-sensitive surface
unit that corresponds to the first user interface representation on the display unit, reveal more
of the first user interface representation from behind the second user interface representation
on the display unit.
[0026]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the
one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display a first user
interface of a first application on the display unit, the first user interface including a
backwards navigation control. The processing unit is further configured to, while displaying
the first user interface of the first application on the display unit, detect a gesture by a first
contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit at a location that corresponds to the backwards
navigation control on the display unit. The processing unit is also configured to, in response
to detecting the gesture by the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit at a location
that corresponds to the backwards navigation control: in accordance with a determination that
the gesture by the first contact is a gesture with an intensity of the first contact that meets one
or more predetermined intensity criteria, replace display of the first user interface of the first
application with display of a plurality of representations of user interfaces of the first
application, including a representation of the first user interface and a representation of a
second user interface; and, in accordance with a determination that the gesture by the first
contact is a gesture with an intensity of the first contact that does not meet the one or more
                                                    11

predetermined intensity criteria, replace display of the first user interface of the first
application with display of the second user interface of the first application.
[00271          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
display, a touch-sensitive surface, optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, one or more processors, memory, and one or more
programs; the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed
by the one or more processors and the one or more programs include instructions for
performing or causing performance of the operations of any of the methods described herein.
In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium has stored
therein instructions which when executed by an electronic device with a display, a touch
sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface, cause the device to perform or cause performance of the operations
of any of the methods described herein. In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical
user interface on an electronic device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, optionally one
or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, a memory,
and one or more processors to execute one or more programs stored in the memory includes
one or more of the elements displayed in any of the methods described herein, which are
updated in response to inputs, as described in any of the methods described herein. In
accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes: a display, a touch
sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface; and means for performing or causing performance of the operations
of any of the methods described herein. In accordance with some embodiments, an
information processing apparatus, for use in an electronic device with a display and a touch
sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface, includes means for performing or causing performance of the
operations of any of the methods described herein.
[00281          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display content items, a touch-sensitive surface unit configured to receive
user inputs, one or more sensor units configured to detect intensity of contacts with the touch
sensitive surface unit, and a processing unit coupled to the display unit, the touch-sensitive
surface unit and the one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable
display, on the display, of a user interface for an application; detect an edge input that
includes detecting a change in a characteristic intensity of a contact proximate to an edge of
                                                   12

the touch-sensitive surface; and, in response to detecting the edge input: in accordance with a
determination that the edge input meets system-gesture criteria, perform an operation that is
independent of the application, wherein: the system-gesture criteria include intensity criteria;
the system-gesture criteria include a location criterion that is met when the intensity criteria
for the contact are met while the contact is within a first region relative to the touch-sensitive
surface; and the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is determined based on one
or more characteristics of the contact.
[0029]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display content items, a touch-sensitive surface unit configured to receive
user inputs, one or more sensor units configured to detect intensity of contacts with the touch
sensitive surface unit, and a processing unit coupled to the display unit, the touch-sensitive
surface unit and the one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable
display, on the display, of a first view of a first application; while enabling display of the first
view, detect a first portion of a first input that includes detecting a first contact on the touch
sensitive surface; in response to detecting the first portion of the first input, in accordance
with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets application-switching
criteria, enable concurrent display, on the display, of portions of a plurality of application
views including the first application view and a second application view; while enabling
concurrent display of the portions of the plurality of application views, detect a second
portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact; and in response to detecting
the second portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact: in accordance
with a determination that the second portion of the first input meets first-view display criteria,
wherein the first-view display criteria include a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the
first contact is detected in a first region of the touch-sensitive surface, cease to enable display
of the portion of the second application view and enable display of the first application view
on the display; and in accordance with a determination that the second portion of the first
input meets multi-view display criteria, wherein the multi-view display criteria includes a
criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a second region of the
touch-sensitive surface that is different from the first region of the touch-sensitive surface,
maintain concurrent display of at least a portion of the first application view and at least a
portion of the second application view on the display after detecting the liftoff of the first
contact.
                                                     13

[00301          Thus, electronic devices with displays, touch-sensitive surfaces and optionally
one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface are
provided with faster, more efficient methods and interfaces for navigating between user
interfaces, thereby increasing the effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction with such
devices. Such methods and interfaces may complement or replace conventional methods for
navigating between user interfaces.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00311          For a better understanding of the various described embodiments, reference
should be made to the Description of Embodiments below, in conjunction with the following
drawings in which like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the
figures.
[0032]          Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating a portable multifunction device with
a touch-sensitive display in accordance with some embodiments.
[00331          Figure 1B is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments.
[0034]          Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device having a touch screen in
accordance with some embodiments.
[00351          Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.
[00361          Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
a portable multifunction device in accordance with some embodiments.
[00371          Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface for a multifunction device
with a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display in accordance with some
embodiments.
[00381          Figures 4C-4E illustrate exemplary dynamic intensity thresholds in accordance
with some embodiments.
[00391          Figures 5A-5HH illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interface representations in a user interface selection mode in accordance with some
embodiments.
                                                  14

[00401          Figures 6A-6V illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between a
displayed user interface and previously displayed user interfaces in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0041]          Figures 7A-70 illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between a
displayed user interface and the user interface immediately preceding the displayed user
interface in accordance with some embodiments.
[0042]          Figures 8A-8R illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interface representations in a user interface selection mode in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0043]          Figures 9A-9H illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interface representations in a user interface selection mode in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0044]          Figures 1OA- 1OH are flow diagrams illustrating a method of navigating
between user interface representations in a user interface selection mode in accordance with
some embodiments.
[0045]          Figures 11 A-1 1E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of navigating
between a displayed user interface and previously displayed user interfaces in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0046]          Figures 12A-12E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of navigating
between a displayed user interface and the user interface immediately preceding the displayed
user interface in accordance with some embodiments.
[00471          Figures 13A-13D are flow diagrams illustrating a method of navigating
between user interface representations in a user interface selection mode in accordance with
some embodiments.
[0048]          Figures 14A-14C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of navigating
between user interface representations in a user interface selection mode in accordance with
some embodiments.
[0049]          Figure 15 is a flow diagram illustrating a method of navigating between user
interfaces in a hierarchy of user interfaces for an application in accordance with some
embodiments.
                                                   15

[0050]           Figures 16-21 are functional block diagrams of electronic devices in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0051]           Figures 22A-22BA illustrate exemplary user interfaces for invoking a user
interface selection mode and for navigating between user interfaces in an application in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0052]           Figures 23A-23T illustrate exemplary user interfaces for invoking a user
interface selection mode and for navigating between user interfaces in an application in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0053]           Figures 24A-24F are flow diagrams illustrating a method of invoking a user
interface selection mode and for navigating between user interfaces in an application in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0054]           Figures 25A-25H are flow diagrams illustrating a method of invoking a user
interface selection mode and for navigating between user interfaces in an application in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0055]           Figures 26-27 are functional block diagrams of electronic devices in
accordance with some embodiments.
                              DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0056]           Many electronic devices have graphical user interfaces for multiple different
applications. A user commonly needs to access multiple different applications in succession.
It is more efficient to maintain applications in an active state (e.g., open) when working in
this fashion because it is time consuming and laborious to be opening and closing the same
application multiple times a day. However, when multiple applications are open on an
electronic device simultaneously, it can likewise be difficult to navigate through the open
applications to identify and activate display of a desired application. Likewise, it is
cumbersome to navigating through hierarchies with a large number of items (e.g., files,
emails, previously displayed web pages, etc.) The present disclosure improves this
processing by providing efficient and intuitive devices, methods, and user interfaces for
navigating through representations of active applications and complex hierarchies. In some
embodiments, the improvements are achieved by providing methods of navigating through a
large number of items with fewer and smaller user inputs. In some embodiments, the
improvements are achieved by incorporating heuristics based on sensing differences in the
                                                  16

intensity of a contact, which does not require the user to make multiple user inputs, or even
lift the contact away from a touch-sensitive surface to make a selection.
[00571           Below, Figures 1A-1B, 2, and 3 provide a description of exemplary devices.
Figures 4A-4B, 5A-5HH, 6A-6V, 7A-70, 8A-8R, 9A-9H, 22A-22BA, and 23A-23T illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for navigating between user interfaces. Figures 1OA-1OH, 11 A
 1IE, 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H are flow diagrams of
methods of navigating between user interface representations. The user interfaces in Figures
5A-5HH, 6A-6V, 7A-70, 8A-8R, 9A-9H, 22A-22BA, and 23A-23T are used to illustrate the
processes in Figures 1OA-1OH, 11 A-1 1E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and
25A-25H.
                                     EXEMPLARY DEVICES
[0058]           Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous
specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various
described embodiments. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that
the various described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other
instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, circuits, and networks have not
been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.
[0059]           It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. are, in
some instances, used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be
limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another.
For example, a first contact could be termed a second contact, and, similarly, a second
contact could be termed a first contact, without departing from the scope of the various
described embodiments. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts, but they
are not the same contact, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
[0060]           The terminology used in the description of the various described embodiments
herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be
limiting. As used in the description of the various described embodiments and the appended
claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as
well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term
"and/or" as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one
                                                    17

or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms "includes,"
"including," "comprises," and/or "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the
presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do
not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps,
operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
[0061]          As used herein, the term "if' is, optionally, construed to mean "when" or
"upon" or "in response to determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the
context. Similarly, the phrase "if it is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is
detected" is, optionally, construed to mean "upon determining" or "in response to
determining" or "upon detecting [the stated condition or event]" or "in response to detecting
[the stated condition or event]," depending on the context.
[0062]          Embodiments of electronic devices, user interfaces for such devices, and
associated processes for using such devices are described. In some embodiments, the device
is a portable communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also contains other
functions, such as PDA and/or music player functions. Exemplary embodiments of portable
multifunction devices include, without limitation, the iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad
devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. Other portable electronic devices, such as
laptops or tablet computers with touch-sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch-screen displays and/or
touchpads), are, optionally, used. It should also be understood that, in some embodiments, the
device is not a portable communications device, but is a desktop computer with a touch
sensitive surface (e.g., a touch-screen display and/or a touchpad).
[0063]          In the discussion that follows, an electronic device that includes a display and
a touch-sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the electronic
device optionally includes one or more other physical user-interface devices, such as a
physical keyboard, a mouse and/or a joystick.
[0064]          The device typically supports a variety of applications, such as one or more of
the following: a note taking application, a drawing application, a presentation application, a
word processing application, a website creation application, a disk authoring application, a
spreadsheet application, a gaming application, a telephone application, a video conferencing
application, an e-mail application, an instant messaging application, a workout support
application, a photo management application, a digital camera application, a digital video
                                                   18

camera application, a web browsing application, a digital music player application, and/or a
digital video player application.
[00651          The various applications that are executed on the device optionally use at least
one common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface. One or more
functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information displayed on the
device are, optionally, adjusted and/or varied from one application to the next and/or within a
respective application. In this way, a common physical architecture (such as the touch
sensitive surface) of the device optionally supports the variety of applications with user
interfaces that are intuitive and transparent to the user.
[0066]          Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with touch
sensitive displays. Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating portable multifunction device
 100 with touch-sensitive display system 112 in accordance with some embodiments. Touch
sensitive display system 112 is sometimes called a "touch screen" for convenience, and is
sometimes simply called a touch-sensitive display. Device 100 includes memory 102 (which
optionally includes one or more computer readable storage mediums), memory controller
 122, one or more processing units (CPUs) 120, peripherals interface 118, RF circuitry 108,
audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone 113, input/output (I/O) subsystem 106, other
input or control devices 116, and external port 124. Device 100 optionally includes one or
more optical sensors 164. Device 100 optionally includes one or more intensity sensors 165
for detecting intensity of contacts on device 100 (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface such as
touch-sensitive display system 112 of device 100). Device 100 optionally includes one or
more tactile output generators 167 for generating tactile outputs on device 100 (e.g.,
generating tactile outputs on a touch-sensitive surface such as touch-sensitive display system
 112 of device 100 or touchpad 355 of device 300). These components optionally
communicate over one or more communication buses or signal lines 103.
[00671          As used in the specification and claims, the term "tactile output" refers to
physical displacement of a device relative to a previous position of the device, physical
displacement of a component (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) of a device relative to another
component (e.g., housing) of the device, or displacement of the component relative to a
center of mass of the device that will be detected by a user with the user's sense of touch. For
example, in situations where the device or the component of the device is in contact with a
surface of a user that is sensitive to touch (e.g., a finger, palm, or other part of a user's hand),
                                                    19

the tactile output generated by the physical displacement will be interpreted by the user as a
tactile sensation corresponding to a perceived change in physical characteristics of the device
or the component of the device. For example, movement of a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a
touch-sensitive display or trackpad) is, optionally, interpreted by the user as a "down click"
or "up click" of a physical actuator button. In some cases, a user will feel a tactile sensation
such as an "down click" or "up click" even when there is no movement of a physical actuator
button associated with the touch-sensitive surface that is physically pressed (e.g., displaced)
by the user's movements. As another example, movement of the touch-sensitive surface is,
optionally, interpreted or sensed by the user as "roughness" of the touch-sensitive surface,
even when there is no change in smoothness of the touch-sensitive surface. While such
interpretations of touch by a user will be subject to the individualized sensory perceptions of
the user, there are many sensory perceptions of touch that are common to a large majority of
users. Thus, when a tactile output is described as corresponding to a particular sensory
perception of a user (e.g., an "up click," a "down click," "roughness"), unless otherwise
stated, the generated tactile output corresponds to physical displacement of the device or a
component thereof that will generate the described sensory perception for a typical (or
average) user.
[00681          It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
multifunction device, and that device 100 optionally has more or fewer components than
shown, optionally combines two or more components, or optionally has a different
configuration or arrangement of the components. The various components shown in Figure
 1A are implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or a combination thereof, including one
or more signal processing and/or application specific integrated circuits.
[0069]          Memory 102 optionally includes high-speed random access memory and
optionally also includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access to
memory 102 by other components of device 100, such as CPU(s) 120 and the peripherals
interface 118, is, optionally, controlled by memory controller 122.
[00701          Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals of
the device to CPU(s) 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute
various software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform
various functions for device 100 and to process data.
                                                  20

[00711          In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU(s) 120, and memory
controller 122 are, optionally, implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104. In some other
embodiments, they are, optionally, implemented on separate chips.
[0072]          RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from electromagnetic
signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices
via the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 optionally includes well-known circuitry for
performing these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an RF transceiver,
one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC
chipset, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so forth. RF circuitry 108
optionally communicates with networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World
Wide Web (WWW), an intranet and/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone
network, a wireless local area network (LAN) and/or a metropolitan area network (MAN),
and other devices by wireless communication. The wireless communication optionally uses
any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and technologies, including but not
limited to Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM
Environment (EDGE), high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), high-speed uplink
packet access (HSUPA), Evolution, Data-Only (EV-DO), HSPA, HSPA+, Dual-Cell HSPA
(DC-HSPDA), long term evolution (LTE), near field communication (NFC), wideband code
division multiple access (W-CDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), time division
multiple access (TDMA), Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11 a, IEEE
802.1lac, IEEE 802.11ax, IEEE 802.1lb, IEEE 802.11g and/or IEEE 802.11n), voice over
Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a protocol for e-mail (e.g., Internet message access
protocol (IMAP) and/or post office protocol (POP)), instant messaging (e.g., extensible
messaging and presence protocol (XMPP), Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging
and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), Instant Messaging and Presence Service
(IMPS)), and/or Short Message Service (SMS), or any other suitable communication
protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of the filing date of this
document.
[0073]          Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio
interface between a user and device 100. Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from
peripherals interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the
electrical signal to speaker 111. Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human-audible
                                                 21

sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by microphone
 113 from sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to audio data and
transmits the audio data to peripherals interface 118 for processing. Audio data is, optionally,
retrieved from and/or transmitted to memory 102 and/or RF circuitry 108 by peripherals
interface 118. In some embodiments, audio circuitry 110 also includes a headset jack (e.g.,
212, Figure 2). The headset jack provides an interface between audio circuitry 110 and
removable audio input/output peripherals, such as output-only headphones or a headset with
both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and input (e.g., a microphone).
[0074]          I/O subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as
touch-sensitive display system 112 and other input or control devices 116, with peripherals
interface 118. I/O subsystem 106 optionally includes display controller 156, optical sensor
controller 158, intensity sensor controller 159, haptic feedback controller 161, and one or
more input controllers 160 for other input or control devices. The one or more input
controllers 160 receive/send electrical signals from/to other input or control devices 116. The
other input or control devices 116 optionally include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons,
rocker buttons, etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click wheels, and so forth. In some
alternate embodiments, input controller(s) 160 are, optionally, coupled with any (or none) of
the following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, stylus, and/or a pointer device such as a
mouse. The one or more buttons (e.g., 208, Figure 2) optionally include an up/down button
for volume control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more buttons
optionally include a push button (e.g., 206, Figure 2).
[00751          Touch-sensitive display system 112 provides an input interface and an output
interface between the device and a user. Display controller 156 receives and/or sends
electrical signals from/to touch-sensitive display system 112. Touch-sensitive display system
112 displays visual output to the user. The visual output optionally includes graphics, text,
icons, video, and any combination thereof (collectively termed "graphics"). In some
embodiments, some or all of the visual output corresponds to user-interface objects. As used
herein, the term "affordance" refers to a user-interactive graphical user interface object (e.g.,
a graphical user interface object that is configured to respond to inputs directed toward the
graphical user interface object). Examples of user-interactive graphical user interface objects
include, without limitation, a button, slider, icon, selectable menu item, switch, hyperlink, or
other user interface control.
                                                    22

[00761          Touch-sensitive display system 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor or set
of sensors that accepts input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch
sensitive display system 112 and display controller 156 (along with any associated modules
and/or sets of instructions in memory 102) detect contact (and any movement or breaking of
the contact) on touch-sensitive display system 112 and converts the detected contact into
interaction with user-interface objects (e.g., one or more soft keys, icons, web pages or
images) that are displayed on touch-sensitive display system 112. In an exemplary
embodiment, a point of contact between touch-sensitive display system 112 and the user
corresponds to a finger of the user or a stylus.
[00771          Touch-sensitive display system 112 optionally uses LCD (liquid crystal
display) technology, LPD (light emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting
diode) technology, although other display technologies are used in other embodiments.
Touch-sensitive display system 112 and display controller 156 optionally detect contact and
any movement or breaking thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensing technologies now
known or later developed, including but not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and
surface acoustic wave technologies, as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other
elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch-sensitive display system
 112. In an exemplary embodiment, projected mutual capacitance sensing technology is used,
such as that found in the iPhone@, iPod Touch, and iPad@ from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California.
[0078]          Touch-sensitive display system 112 optionally has a video resolution in excess
of 100 dpi. In some embodiments, the touch screen video resolution is in excess of 400 dpi
(e.g., 500 dpi, 800 dpi, or greater). The user optionally makes contact with touch-sensitive
display system 112 using any suitable object or appendage, such as a stylus, a finger, and so
forth. In some embodiments, the user interface is designed to work with finger-based contacts
and gestures, which can be less precise than stylus-based input due to the larger area of
contact of a finger on the touch screen. In some embodiments, the device translates the rough
finger-based input into a precise pointer/cursor position or command for performing the
actions desired by the user.
[00791          In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 optionally
includes a touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some
embodiments, the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch
                                                  23

screen, does not display visual output. The touchpad is, optionally, a touch-sensitive surface
that is separate from touch-sensitive display system 112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive
surface formed by the touch screen.
[00801           Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various
components. Power system 162 optionally includes a power management system, one or
more power sources (e.g., battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power
failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light
emitting diode (LED)) and any other components associated with the generation,
management and distribution of power in portable devices.
[0081]           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more optical sensors 164. Figure
 1A shows an optical sensor coupled with optical sensor controller 158 in I/O subsystem 106.
Optical sensor(s) 164 optionally include charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary
metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) phototransistors. Optical sensor(s) 164 receive light
from the environment, projected through one or more lens, and converts the light to data
representing an image. In conjunction with imaging module 143 (also called a camera
module), optical sensor(s) 164 optionally capture still images and/or video. In some
embodiments, an optical sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch-sensitive
display system 112 on the front of the device, so that the touch screen is enabled for use as a
viewfinder for still and/or video image acquisition. In some embodiments, another optical
sensor is located on the front of the device so that the user's image is obtained (e.g., for
selfies, for videoconferencing while the user views the other video conference participants on
the touch screen, etc.).
[0082]           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165.
Figure 1A shows a contact intensity sensor coupled with intensity sensor controller 159 in I/O
subsystem 106. Contact intensity sensor(s) 165 optionally include one or more piezoresistive
strain gauges, capacitive force sensors, electric force sensors, piezoelectric force sensors,
optical force sensors, capacitive touch-sensitive surfaces, or other intensity sensors (e.g.,
sensors used to measure the force (or pressure) of a contact on a touch-sensitive surface).
Contact intensity sensor(s) 165 receive contact intensity information (e.g., pressure
information or a proxy for pressure information) from the environment. In some
embodiments, at least one contact intensity sensor is collocated with, or proximate to, a
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112). In some embodiments, at
                                                  24

least one contact intensity sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch-screen
display system 112 which is located on the front of device 100.
[00831          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more proximity sensors 166.
Figure 1A shows proximity sensor 166 coupled with peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
proximity sensor 166 is coupled with input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. In some
embodiments, the proximity sensor turns off and disables touch-sensitive display system 112
when the multifunction device is placed near the user's ear (e.g., when the user is making a
phone call).
[0084]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more tactile output generators 167.
Figure 1A shows a tactile output generator coupled with haptic feedback controller 161 in I/O
subsystem 106. Tactile output generator(s) 167 optionally include one or more
electroacoustic devices such as speakers or other audio components and/or electromechanical
devices that convert energy into linear motion such as a motor, solenoid, electroactive
polymer, piezoelectric actuator, electrostatic actuator, or other tactile output generating
component (e.g., a component that converts electrical signals into tactile outputs on the
device). Tactile output generator(s) 167 receive tactile feedback generation instructions from
haptic feedback module 133 and generates tactile outputs on device 100 that are capable of
being sensed by a user of device 100. In some embodiments, at least one tactile output
generator is collocated with, or proximate to, a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive
display system 112) and, optionally, generates a tactile output by moving the touch-sensitive
surface vertically (e.g., in/out of a surface of device 100) or laterally (e.g., back and forth in
the same plane as a surface of device 100). In some embodiments, at least one tactile output
generator sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch-sensitive display system
112, which is located on the front of device 100.
[0085]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more accelerometers 168. Figure
1A shows accelerometer 168 coupled with peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
accelerometer 168 is, optionally, coupled with an input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106.
In some embodiments, information is displayed on the touch-screen display in a portrait view
or a landscape view based on an analysis of data received from the one or more
accelerometers. Device 100 optionally includes, in addition to accelerometer(s) 168, a
magnetometer (not shown) and a GPS (or GLONASS or other global navigation system)
                                                   25

receiver (not shown) for obtaining information concerning the location and orientation (e.g.,
portrait or landscape) of device 100.
[0086]           In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102 include
operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128, contact/motion
module (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions) 132, haptic
feedback module (or set of instructions) 133, text input module (or set of instructions) 134,
Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of instructions) 135, and applications (or
sets of instructions) 136. Furthermore, in some embodiments, memory 102 stores
device/global internal state 157, as shown in Figures 1A and 3. Device/global internal state
157 includes one or more of: active application state, indicating which applications, if any,
are currently active; display state, indicating what applications, views or other information
occupy various regions of touch-sensitive display system 112; sensor state, including
information obtained from the device's various sensors and other input or control devices
 116; and location and/or positional information concerning the device's location and/or
attitude.
[00871           Operating system 126 (e.g., iOS, Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X,
WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software
components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory
management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates communication
between various hardware and software components.
[0088]           Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices
over one or more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for
handling data received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124 (e.g.,
Universal Serial Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to other
devices or indirectly over a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.). In some
embodiments, the external port is a multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as, or
similar to and/or compatible with the 30-pin connector used in some iPhone@, iPod Touch,
and iPad@ devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. In some embodiments, the
external port is a Lightning connector that is the same as, or similar to and/or compatible with
the Lightning connector used in some iPhone@, iPod Touch, and iPad@ devices from
Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California.
                                                  26

[00891          Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects contact with touch-sensitive
display system 112 (in conjunction with display controller 156) and other touch-sensitive
devices (e.g., a touchpad or physical click wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes
various software components for performing various operations related to detection of
contact (e.g., by a finger or by a stylus), such as determining if contact has occurred (e.g.,
detecting a finger-down event), determining an intensity of the contact (e.g., the force or
pressure of the contact or a substitute for the force or pressure of the contact), determining if
there is movement of the contact and tracking the movement across the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., detecting one or more finger-dragging events), and determining if the contact
has ceased (e.g., detecting a finger-up event or a break in contact). Contact/motion module
130 receives contact data from the touch-sensitive surface. Determining movement of the
point of contact, which is represented by a series of contact data, optionally includes
determining speed (magnitude), velocity (magnitude and direction), and/or an acceleration (a
change in magnitude and/or direction) of the point of contact. These operations are,
optionally, applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger contacts or stylus contacts) or to
multiple simultaneous contacts (e.g., "multitouch"/multiple finger contacts). In some
embodiments, contact/motion module 130 and display controller 156 detect contact on a
touchpad.
[0090]          Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects a gesture input by a user.
Different gestures on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns (e.g.,
different motions, timings, and/or intensities of detected contacts). Thus, a gesture is,
optionally, detected by detecting a particular contact pattern. For example, detecting a finger
tap gesture includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off)
event at the same position (or substantially the same position) as the finger-down event (e.g.,
at the position of an icon). As another example, detecting a finger swipe gesture on the touch
sensitive surface includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting one or more
finger-dragging events, and subsequently followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off) event.
Similarly, tap, swipe, drag, and other gestures are optionally detected for a stylus by detecting
a particular contact pattern for the stylus.
[0091]          Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for
rendering and displaying graphics on touch-sensitive display system 112 or other display,
including components for changing the visual impact (e.g., brightness, transparency,
saturation, contrast or other visual property) of graphics that are displayed. As used herein,
                                                   27

the term "graphics" includes any object that can be displayed to a user, including without
limitation text, web pages, icons (such as user-interface objects including soft keys), digital
images, videos, animations and the like.
[0092]           In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing graphics
to be used. Each graphic is, optionally, assigned a corresponding code. Graphics module 132
receives, from applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be displayed along
with, if necessary, coordinate data and other graphic property data, and then generates screen
image data to output to display controller 156.
[0093]           Haptic feedback module 133 includes various software components for
generating instructions used by tactile output generator(s) 167 to produce tactile outputs at
one or more locations on device 100 in response to user interactions with device 100.
[0094]           Text input module 134, which is, optionally, a component of graphics module
132, provides soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts 137,
e-mail 140, IM 141, browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
[0095]           GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this
information for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location-based
dialing, to camera 143 as picture/video metadata, and to applications that provide location
based services such as weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map/navigation
widgets).
[0096]           Applications 136 optionally include the following modules (or sets of
instructions), or a subset or superset thereof:
*        contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
*       telephone module 138;
*       video conferencing module 139;
.        e-mail client module 140;
.        instant messaging (IM) module 141;
0       workout support module 142;
*        camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
.        image management module 144;
                                                  28

*       browser module 147;
*       calendar module 148;
*       widget modules 149, which optionally include one or more of: weather widget 149-1,
        stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, dictionary
        widget 149-5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user-created widgets
        149-6;
*       widget creator module 150 for making user-created widgets 149-6;
*       search module 151;
.       video and music player module 152, which is, optionally, made up of a video player
        module and a music player module;
.       notes module 153;
*       map module 154; and/or
*       online video module 155.
[00971          Examples of other applications 136 that are, optionally, stored in memory 102
include other word processing applications, other image editing applications, drawing
applications, presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital rights
management, voice recognition, and voice replication.
[0098]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137
includes executable instructions to manage an address book or contact list (e.g., stored in
application internal state 192 of contacts module 137 in memory 102 or memory 370),
including: adding name(s) to the address book; deleting name(s) from the address book;
associating telephone number(s), e-mail address(es), physical address(es) or other
information with a name; associating an image with a name; categorizing and sorting names;
providing telephone numbers and/or e-mail addresses to initiate and/or facilitate
communications by telephone 138, video conference 139, e-mail 140, or IM 141; and so
forth.
[0099]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156, contact module
130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, telephone module 138 includes
                                                 29

executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters corresponding to a telephone
number, access one or more telephone numbers in address book 137, modify a telephone
number that has been entered, dial a respective telephone number, conduct a conversation and
disconnect or hang up when the conversation is completed. As noted above, the wireless
communication optionally uses any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and
technologies.
[00100]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156, optical sensor(s)
 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input
module 134, contact list 137, and telephone module 138, videoconferencing module 139
includes executable instructions to initiate, conduct, and terminate a video conference
between a user and one or more other participants in accordance with user instructions.
[00101]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
e-mail client module 140 includes executable instructions to create, send, receive, and
manage e-mail in response to user instructions. In conjunction with image management
module 144, e-mail client module 140 makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still
or video images taken with camera module 143.
[00102]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
the instant messaging module 141 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of
characters corresponding to an instant message, to modify previously entered characters, to
transmit a respective instant message (for example, using a Short Message Service (SMS) or
Multimedia Message Service (MMS) protocol for telephony-based instant messages or using
XMPP, SIMPLE, Apple Push Notification Service (APNs) or IMPS for Intemet-based instant
messages), to receive instant messages and to view received instant messages. In some
embodiments, transmitted and/or received instant messages optionally include graphics,
photos, audio files, video files and/or other attachments as are supported in a MMS and/or an
Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS). As used herein, "instant messaging" refers to both
telephony-based messages (e.g., messages sent using SMS or MMS) and Intemet-based
messages (e.g., messages sent using XMPP, SIMPLE, APNs, or IMPS).
                                                   30

[001031          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134,
GPS module 135, map module 154, and music player module 146, workout support module
142 includes executable instructions to create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or
calorie burning goals); communicate with workout sensors (in sports devices and smart
watches); receive workout sensor data; calibrate sensors used to monitor a workout; select
and play music for a workout; and display, store and transmit workout data.
[00104]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
optical sensor(s) 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module
132, and image management module 144, camera module 143 includes executable
instructions to capture still images or video (including a video stream) and store them into
memory 102, modify characteristics of a still image or video, and/or delete a still image or
video from memory 102.
[00105]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and camera module 143,
image management module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g.,
edit), or otherwise manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album),
and store still and/or video images.
[00106]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input
module 134, browser module 147 includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in
accordance with user instructions, including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying
web pages or portions thereof, as well as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
[001071          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes
executable instructions to create, display, modify, and store calendars and data associated
with calendars (e.g., calendar entries, to do lists, etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
[00108]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
134, and browser module 147, widget modules 149 are mini-applications that are, optionally,
downloaded and used by a user (e.g., weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator
                                                    31

widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, and dictionary widget 149-5) or created by the user
(e.g., user-created widget 149-6). In some embodiments, a widget includes an HTML
(Hypertext Markup Language) file, a CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) file, and a JavaScript file.
In some embodiments, a widget includes an XML (Extensible Markup Language) file and a
JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo! Widgets).
[00109]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
 134, and browser module 147, the widget creator module 150 includes executable
instructions to create widgets (e.g., turning a user-specified portion of a web page into a
widget).
[00110]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, search
module 151 includes executable instructions to search for text, music, sound, image, video,
and/or other files in memory 102 that match one or more search criteria (e.g., one or more
user-specified search terms) in accordance with user instructions.
[00111]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
RF circuitry 108, and browser module 147, video and music player module 152 includes
executable instructions that allow the user to download and play back recorded music and
other sound files stored in one or more file formats, such as MP3 or AAC files, and
executable instructions to display, present or otherwise play back videos (e.g., on touch
sensitive display system 112, or on an external display connected wirelessly or via external
port 124). In some embodiments, device 100 optionally includes the functionality of an MP3
player, such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
[00112]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153
includes executable instructions to create and manage notes, to do lists, and the like in
accordance with user instructions.
[00113]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
 134, GPS module 135, and browser module 147, map module 154 includes executable
instructions to receive, display, modify, and store maps and data associated with maps (e.g.,
                                                  32

driving directions; data on stores and other points of interest at or near a particular location;
and other location-based data) in accordance with user instructions.
[00114]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
RF circuitry 108, text input module 134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147,
online video module 155 includes executable instructions that allow the user to access,
browse, receive (e.g., by streaming and/or download), play back (e.g., on the touch screen
 112, or on an external display connected wirelessly or via external port 124), send an e-mail
with a link to a particular online video, and otherwise manage online videos in one or more
file formats, such as H.264. In some embodiments, instant messaging module 141, rather than
e-mail client module 140, is used to send a link to a particular online video.
[00115]          Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of
executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the
methods described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other
information processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of instructions)
need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus
various subsets of these modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in
various embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 optionally stores a subset of the
modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 102 optionally stores
additional modules and data structures not described above.
[00116]          In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a predefined
set of functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen and/or a
touchpad. By using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control device for
operation of device 100, the number of physical input control devices (such as push buttons,
dials, and the like) on device 100 is, optionally, reduced.
[001171          The predefined set of functions that are performed exclusively through a touch
screen and/or a touchpad optionally include navigation between user interfaces. In some
embodiments, the touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a main, home,
or root menu from any user interface that is displayed on device 100. In such embodiments, a
"menu button" is implemented using a touchpad. In some other embodiments, the menu
button is a physical push button or other physical input control device instead of a touchpad.
                                                   33

[001181         Figure lB is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 (in
Figures 1A) or 370 (Figure 3) includes event sorter 170 (e.g., in operating system 126) and a
respective application 136-1 (e.g., any of the aforementioned applications 136, 137-155, 380
390).
[00119]         Event sorter 170 receives event information and determines the application
 136-1 and application view 191 of application 136-1 to which to deliver the event
information. Event sorter 170 includes event monitor 171 and event dispatcher module 174.
In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes application internal state 192, which
indicates the current application view(s) displayed on touch-sensitive display system 112
when the application is active or executing. In some embodiments, device/global internal
state 157 is used by event sorter 170 to determine which application(s) is (are) currently
active, and application internal state 192 is used by event sorter 170 to determine application
views 191 to which to deliver event information.
[00120]         In some embodiments, application internal state 192 includes additional
information, such as one or more of: resume information to be used when application 136-1
resumes execution, user interface state information that indicates information being displayed
or that is ready for display by application 136-1, a state queue for enabling the user to go
back to a prior state or view of application 136-1, and a redo/undo queue of previous actions
taken by the user.
[00121]         Event monitor 171 receives event information from peripherals interface 118.
Event information includes information about a sub-event (e.g., a user touch on touch
sensitive display system 112, as part of a multi-touch gesture). Peripherals interface 118
transmits information it receives from I/O subsystem 106 or a sensor, such as proximity
sensor 166, accelerometer(s) 168, and/or microphone 113 (through audio circuitry 110).
Information that peripherals interface 118 receives from I/O subsystem 106 includes
information from touch-sensitive display system 112 or a touch-sensitive surface.
[00122]         In some embodiments, event monitor 171 sends requests to the peripherals
interface 118 at predetermined intervals. In response, peripherals interface 118 transmits
event information. In other embodiments, peripheral interface 118 transmits event
information only when there is a significant event (e.g., receiving an input above a
predetermined noise threshold and/or for more than a predetermined duration).
                                                  34

[001231         In some embodiments, event sorter 170 also includes a hit view determination
module 172 and/or an active event recognizer determination module 173.
[00124]         Hit view determination module 172 provides software procedures for
determining where a sub-event has taken place within one or more views, when touch
sensitive display system 112 displays more than one view. Views are made up of controls and
other elements that a user can see on the display.
[00125]         Another aspect of the user interface associated with an application is a set of
views, sometimes herein called application views or user interface windows, in which
information is displayed and touch-based gestures occur. The application views (of a
respective application) in which a touch is detected optionally correspond to programmatic
levels within a programmatic or view hierarchy of the application. For example, the lowest
level view in which a touch is detected is, optionally, called the hit view, and the set of events
that are recognized as proper inputs are, optionally, determined based, at least in part, on the
hit view of the initial touch that begins a touch-based gesture.
[00126]         Hit view determination module 172 receives information related to sub-events
of a touch-based gesture. When an application has multiple views organized in a hierarchy,
hit view determination module 172 identifies a hit view as the lowest view in the hierarchy
which should handle the sub-event. In most circumstances, the hit view is the lowest level
view in which an initiating sub-event occurs (i.e., the first sub-event in the sequence of sub
events that form an event or potential event). Once the hit view is identified by the hit view
determination module, the hit view typically receives all sub-events related to the same touch
or input source for which it was identified as the hit view.
[001271         Active event recognizer determination module 173 determines which view or
views within a view hierarchy should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In some
embodiments, active event recognizer determination module 173 determines that only the hit
view should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, active event
recognizer determination module 173 determines that all views that include the physical
location of a sub-event are actively involved views, and therefore determines that all actively
involved views should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments,
even if touch sub-events were entirely confined to the area associated with one particular
view, views higher in the hierarchy would still remain as actively involved views.
                                                   35

[001281         Event dispatcher module 174 dispatches the event information to an event
recognizer (e.g., event recognizer 180). In embodiments including active event recognizer
determination module 173, event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to an
event recognizer determined by active event recognizer determination module 173. In some
embodiments, event dispatcher module 174 stores in an event queue the event information,
which is retrieved by a respective event receiver module 182.
[00129]         In some embodiments, operating system 126 includes event sorter 170.
Alternatively, application 136-1 includes event sorter 170. In yet other embodiments, event
sorter 170 is a stand-alone module, or a part of another module stored in memory 102, such
as contact/motion module 130.
[00130]         In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes a plurality of event handlers
 190 and one or more application views 191, each of which includes instructions for handling
touch events that occur within a respective view of the application's user interface. Each
application view 191 of the application 136-1 includes one or more event recognizers 180.
Typically, a respective application view 191 includes a plurality of event recognizers 180. In
other embodiments, one or more of event recognizers 180 are part of a separate module, such
as a user interface kit (not shown) or a higher level object from which application 136-1
inherits methods and other properties. In some embodiments, a respective event handler 190
includes one or more of: data updater 176, object updater 177, GUI updater 178, and/or event
data 179 received from event sorter 170. Event handler 190 optionally utilizes or calls data
updater 176, object updater 177 or GUI updater 178 to update the application internal state
 192. Alternatively, one or more of the application views 191 includes one or more respective
event handlers 190. Also, in some embodiments, one or more of data updater 176, object
updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a respective application view 191.
[00131]         A respective event recognizer 180 receives event information (e.g., event data
 179) from event sorter 170, and identifies an event from the event information. Event
recognizer 180 includes event receiver 182 and event comparator 184. In some embodiments,
event recognizer 180 also includes at least a subset of: metadata 183, and event delivery
instructions 188 (which optionally include sub-event delivery instructions).
[00132]         Event receiver 182 receives event information from event sorter 170. The
event information includes information about a sub-event, for example, a touch or a touch
movement. Depending on the sub-event, the event information also includes additional
                                                  36

information, such as location of the sub-event. When the sub-event concerns motion of a
touch, the event information optionally also includes speed and direction of the sub-event. In
some embodiments, events include rotation of the device from one orientation to another
(e.g., from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation, or vice versa), and the event
information includes corresponding information about the current orientation (also called
device attitude) of the device.
[001331          Event comparator 184 compares the event information to predefined event or
sub-event definitions and, based on the comparison, determines an event or sub-event, or
determines or updates the state of an event or sub-event. In some embodiments, event
comparator 184 includes event definitions 186. Event definitions 186 contain definitions of
events (e.g., predefined sequences of sub-events), for example, event 1 (187-1), event 2 (187
2), and others. In some embodiments, sub-events in an event 187 include, for example, touch
begin, touch end, touch movement, touch cancellation, and multiple touching. In one
example, the definition for event 1 (187-1) is a double tap on a displayed object. The double
tap, for example, comprises a first touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a
predetermined phase, a first lift-off (touch end) for a predetermined phase, a second touch
(touch begin) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, and a second lift-off (touch
end) for a predetermined phase. In another example, the definition for event 2 (187-2) is a
dragging on a displayed object. The dragging, for example, comprises a touch (or contact) on
the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a movement of the touch across touch
sensitive display system 112, and lift-off of the touch (touch end). In some embodiments, the
event also includes information for one or more associated event handlers 190.
[00134]          In some embodiments, event definition 187 includes a definition of an event
for a respective user-interface object. In some embodiments, event comparator 184 performs
a hit test to determine which user-interface object is associated with a sub-event. For
example, in an application view in which three user-interface objects are displayed on touch
sensitive display system 112, when a touch is detected on touch-sensitive display system 112,
event comparator 184 performs a hit test to determine which of the three user-interface
objects is associated with the touch (sub-event). If each displayed object is associated with a
respective event handler 190, the event comparator uses the result of the hit test to determine
which event handler 190 should be activated. For example, event comparator 184 selects an
event handler associated with the sub-event and the object triggering the hit test.
                                                   37

[001351         In some embodiments, the definition for a respective event 187 also includes
delayed actions that delay delivery of the event information until after it has been determined
whether the sequence of sub-events does or does not correspond to the event recognizer's
event type.
[001361         When a respective event recognizer 180 determines that the series of sub
events do not match any of the events in event definitions 186, the respective event
recognizer 180 enters an event impossible, event failed, or event ended state, after which it
disregards subsequent sub-events of the touch-based gesture. In this situation, other event
recognizers, if any, that remain active for the hit view continue to track and process sub
events of an ongoing touch-based gesture.
[001371         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 includes metadata
 183 with configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how the event delivery
system should perform sub-event delivery to actively involved event recognizers. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
how event recognizers interact, or are enabled to interact, with one another. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
whether sub-events are delivered to varying levels in the view or programmatic hierarchy.
[001381         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 activates event
handler 190 associated with an event when one or more particular sub-events of an event are
recognized. In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 delivers event
information associated with the event to event handler 190. Activating an event handler 190
is distinct from sending (and deferred sending) sub-events to a respective hit view. In some
embodiments, event recognizer 180 throws a flag associated with the recognized event, and
event handler 190 associated with the flag catches the flag and performs a predefined process.
[001391         In some embodiments, event delivery instructions 188 include sub-event
delivery instructions that deliver event information about a sub-event without activating an
event handler. Instead, the sub-event delivery instructions deliver event information to event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or to actively involved views. Event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or with actively involved views receive the
event information and perform a predetermined process.
[00140]         In some embodiments, data updater 176 creates and updates data used in
application 136-1. For example, data updater 176 updates the telephone number used in
                                                   38

contacts module 137, or stores a video file used in video player module 145. In some
embodiments, object updater 177 creates and updates objects used in application 136-1. For
example, object updater 177 creates a new user-interface object or updates the position of a
user-interface object. GUI updater 178 updates the GUI. For example, GUI updater 178
prepares display information and sends it to graphics module 132 for display on a touch
sensitive display.
[00141]          In some embodiments, event handler(s) 190 includes or has access to data
updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178. In some embodiments, data updater
 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a single module of a respective
application 136-1 or application view 191. In other embodiments, they are included in two or
more software modules.
[00142]          It shall be understood that the foregoing discussion regarding event handling
of user touches on touch-sensitive displays also applies to other forms of user inputs to
operate multifunction devices 100 with input-devices, not all of which are initiated on touch
screens. For example, mouse movement and mouse button presses, optionally coordinated
with single or multiple keyboard presses or holds; contact movements such as taps, drags,
scrolls, etc., on touch-pads; pen stylus inputs; movement of the device; oral instructions;
detected eye movements; biometric inputs; and/or any combination thereof are optionally
utilized as inputs corresponding to sub-events which define an event to be recognized.
[00143]          Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen
(e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112, Figure 1A) in accordance with some embodiments.
The touch screen optionally displays one or more graphics within user interface (UI) 200. In
this embodiment, as well as others described below, a user is enabled to select one or more of
the graphics by making a gesture on the graphics, for example, with one or more fingers 202
(not drawn to scale in the figure) or one or more styluses 203 (not drawn to scale in the
figure). In some embodiments, selection of one or more graphics occurs when the user breaks
contact with the one or more graphics. In some embodiments, the gesture optionally includes
one or more taps, one or more swipes (from left to right, right to left, upward and/or
downward) and/or a rolling of a finger (from right to left, left to right, upward and/or
downward) that has made contact with device 100. In some implementations or
circumstances, inadvertent contact with a graphic does not select the graphic. For example, a
                                                    39

swipe gesture that sweeps over an application icon optionally does not select the
corresponding application when the gesture corresponding to selection is a tap.
[00144]         Device 100 optionally also includes one or more physical buttons, such as
"home" or menu button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 is, optionally, used to
navigate to any application 136 in a set of applications that are, optionally executed on device
 100. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the menu button is implemented as a soft key in a
GUI displayed on the touch-screen display.
[00145]         In some embodiments, device 100 includes the touch-screen display, menu
button 204, push button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume
adjustment button(s) 208, Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card slot 210, head set jack 212,
and docking/charging external port 124. Push button 206 is, optionally, used to turn the
power on/off on the device by depressing the button and holding the button in the depressed
state for a predefined time interval; to lock the device by depressing the button and releasing
the button before the predefined time interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock the device or
initiate an unlock process. In some embodiments, device 100 also accepts verbal input for
activation or deactivation of some functions through microphone 113. Device 100 also,
optionally, includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of
contacts on touch-sensitive display system 112 and/or one or more tactile output generators
 167 for generating tactile outputs for a user of device 100.
[00146]         Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments. Device 300
need not be portable. In some embodiments, device 300 is a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a multimedia player device, a navigation device, an educational
device (such as a child's learning toy), a gaming system, or a control device (e.g., a home or
industrial controller). Device 300 typically includes one or more processing units (CPU's)
310, one or more network or other communications interfaces 360, memory 370, and one or
more communication buses 320 for interconnecting these components. Communication buses
320 optionally include circuitry (sometimes called a chipset) that interconnects and controls
communications between system components. Device 300 includes input/output (I/O)
interface 330 comprising display 340, which is typically a touch-screen display. I/O interface
330 also optionally includes a keyboard and/or mouse (or other pointing device) 350 and
touchpad 355, tactile output generator 357 for generating tactile outputs on device 300 (e.g.,
                                                   40

similar to tactile output generator(s) 167 described above with reference to Figure 1A),
sensors 359 (e.g., optical, acceleration, proximity, touch-sensitive, and/or contact intensity
sensors similar to contact intensity sensor(s) 165 described above with reference to Figure
 1A). Memory 370 includes high-speed random access memory, such as DRAM, SRAM,
DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices; and optionally includes non
volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, optical disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage devices. Memory 370
optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely located from CPU(s) 310. In some
embodiments, memory 370 stores programs, modules, and data structures analogous to the
programs, modules, and data structures stored in memory 102 of portable multifunction
device 100 (Figure 1A), or a subset thereof. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores
additional programs, modules, and data structures not present in memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100. For example, memory 370 of device 300 optionally stores drawing
module 380, presentation module 382, word processing module 384, website creation module
386, disk authoring module 388, and/or spreadsheet module 390, while memory 102 of
portable multifunction device 100 (Figure 1A) optionally does not store these modules.
[001471          Each of the above identified elements in Figure 3 are, optionally, stored in one
or more of the previously mentioned memory devices. Each of the above identified modules
corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above
identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as
separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these
modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In some
embodiments, memory 370 optionally stores a subset of the modules and data structures
identified above. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores additional modules and data
structures not described above.
[00148]          Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UP) that
are, optionally, implemented on portable multifunction device 100.
[00149]          Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
portable multifunction device 100 in accordance with some embodiments. Similar user
interfaces are, optionally, implemented on device 300. In some embodiments, user interface
400 includes the following elements, or a subset or superset thereof:
                                                  41

. Signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s), such as cellular and
  Wi-Fi signals;
. Time 404;
. Bluetooth indicator 405;
. Battery status indicator 406;
* Tray 408 with icons for frequently used applications, such as:
      o   Icon 416 for telephone module 138, labeled "Phone," which optionally
          includes an indicator 414 of the number of missed calls or voicemail
          messages;
      o   Icon 418 for e-mail client module 140, labeled "Mail," which optionally
          includes an indicator 410 of the number of unread e-mails;
      o   Icon 420 for browser module 147, labeled "Browser;" and
      o   Icon 422 for video and music player module 152, also referred to as iPod
          (trademark of Apple Inc.) module 152, labeled "iPod;" and
  Icons for other applications, such as:
      o   Icon 424 for IM module 141, labeled "Messages;"
      o   Icon 426 for calendar module 148, labeled "Calendar;"
      o   Icon 428 for image management module 144, labeled "Photos;"
      o   Icon 430 for camera module 143, labeled "Camera;"
      o   Icon 432 for online video module 155, labeled "Online Video;"
      o   Icon 434 for stocks widget 149-2, labeled "Stocks;"
      o   Icon 436 for map module 154, labeled "Map;"
      o   Icon 438 for weather widget 149-1, labeled "Weather;"
      o   Icon 440 for alarm clock widget 149-4, labeled "Clock;"
      o   Icon 442 for workout support module 142, labeled "Workout Support;"
      o   Icon 444 for notes module 153, labeled "Notes;" and
                                           42

            o   Icon 446 for a settings application or module, which provides access to
                 settings for device 100 and its various applications 136.
[00150]         It should be noted that the icon labels illustrated in Figure 4A are merely
exemplary. For example, in some embodiments, icon 422 for video and music player module
 152 is labeled "Music" or "Music Player." Other labels are, optionally, used for various
application icons. In some embodiments, a label for a respective application icon includes a
name of an application corresponding to the respective application icon. In some
embodiments, a label for a particular application icon is distinct from a name of an
application corresponding to the particular application icon.
[00151]         Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300,
Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3) that is
separate from the display 450. Device 300 also, optionally, includes one or more contact
intensity sensors (e.g., one or more of sensors 357) for detecting intensity of contacts on
touch-sensitive surface 451 and/or one or more tactile output generators 359 for generating
tactile outputs for a user of device 300.
[00152]         Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300,
Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3) that is
separate from the display 450. Although many of the examples that follow will be given with
reference to inputs on touch screen display 112 (where the touch-sensitive surface and the
display are combined), in some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive
surface that is separate from the display, as shown in Figure 4B. In some embodiments, the
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) has a primary axis (e.g., 452 in Figure 4B)
that corresponds to a primary axis (e.g., 453 in Figure 4B) on the display (e.g., 450). In
accordance with these embodiments, the device detects contacts (e.g., 460 and 462 in Figure
4B) with the touch-sensitive surface 451 at locations that correspond to respective locations
on the display (e.g., in Figure 4B, 460 corresponds to 468 and 462 corresponds to 470). In
this way, user inputs (e.g., contacts 460 and 462, and movements thereof) detected by the
device on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) are used by the device to
manipulate the user interface on the display (e.g., 450 in Figure 4B) of the multifunction
device when the touch-sensitive surface is separate from the display. It should be understood
that similar methods are, optionally, used for other user interfaces described herein.
                                                   43

[001531          Additionally, while the following examples are given primarily with reference
to finger inputs (e.g., finger contacts, finger tap gestures, finger swipe gestures, etc.), it
should be understood that, in some embodiments, one or more of the finger inputs are
replaced with input from another input device (e.g., a mouse based input or a stylus input).
For example, a swipe gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click (e.g., instead of a
contact) followed by movement of the cursor along the path of the swipe (e.g., instead of
movement of the contact). As another example, a tap gesture is, optionally, replaced with a
mouse click while the cursor is located over the location of the tap gesture (e.g., instead of
detection of the contact followed by ceasing to detect the contact). Similarly, when multiple
user inputs are simultaneously detected, it should be understood that multiple computer mice
are, optionally, used simultaneously, or a mouse and finger contacts are, optionally, used
simultaneously.
[00154]          As used herein, the term "focus selector" refers to an input element that
indicates a current part of a user interface with which a user is interacting. In some
implementations that include a cursor or other location marker, the cursor acts as a "focus
selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input) is detected on a touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touchpad 355 in Figure 3 or touch-sensitive surface 451 in Figure 4B) while the cursor
is over a particular user interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user
interface element), the particular user interface element is adjusted in accordance with the
detected input. In some implementations that include a touch-screen display (e.g., touch
sensitive display system 112 in Figure 1A or the touch screen in Figure 4A) that enables
direct interaction with user interface elements on the touch-screen display, a detected contact
on the touch-screen acts as a "focus selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input by the
contact) is detected on the touch-screen display at a location of a particular user interface
element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user interface element), the particular user
interface element is adjusted in accordance with the detected input. In some implementations,
focus is moved from one region of a user interface to another region of the user interface
without corresponding movement of a cursor or movement of a contact on a touch-screen
display (e.g., by using a tab key or arrow keys to move focus from one button to another
button); in these implementations, the focus selector moves in accordance with movement of
focus between different regions of the user interface. Without regard to the specific form
taken by the focus selector, the focus selector is generally the user interface element (or
contact on a touch-screen display) that is controlled by the user so as to communicate the
                                                    44

user's intended interaction with the user interface (e.g., by indicating, to the device, the
element of the user interface with which the user is intending to interact). For example, the
location of a focus selector (e.g., a cursor, a contact, or a selection box) over a respective
button while a press input is detected on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touchpad or touch
screen) will indicate that the user is intending to activate the respective button (as opposed to
other user interface elements shown on a display of the device).
[00155]         As used in the specification and claims, the term "intensity" of a contact on a
touch-sensitive surface refers to the force or pressure (force per unit area) of a contact (e.g., a
finger contact or a stylus contact) on the touch-sensitive surface, or to a substitute (proxy) for
the force or pressure of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface. The intensity of a contact has
a range of values that includes at least four distinct values and more typically includes
hundreds of distinct values (e.g., at least 256). Intensity of a contact is, optionally, determined
(or measured) using various approaches and various sensors or combinations of sensors. For
example, one or more force sensors underneath or adjacent to the touch-sensitive surface are,
optionally, used to measure force at various points on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
implementations, force measurements from multiple force sensors are combined (e.g., a
weighted average or a sum) to determine an estimated force of a contact. Similarly, a
pressure-sensitive tip of a stylus is, optionally, used to determine a pressure of the stylus on
the touch-sensitive surface. Alternatively, the size of the contact area detected on the touch
sensitive surface and/or changes thereto, the capacitance of the touch-sensitive surface
proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto, and/or the resistance of the touch-sensitive
surface proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto are, optionally, used as a substitute
for the force or pressure of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are used directly
to determine whether an intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is
described in units corresponding to the substitute measurements). In some implementations,
the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are converted to an estimated force
or pressure and the estimated force or pressure is used to determine whether an intensity
threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is a pressure threshold measured in
units of pressure). Using the intensity of a contact as an attribute of a user input allows for
user access to additional device functionality that may otherwise not be readily accessible by
the user on a reduced-size device with limited real estate for displaying affordances (e.g., on a
                                                    45

touch-sensitive display) and/or receiving user input (e.g., via a touch-sensitive display, a
touch-sensitive surface, or a physical/mechanical control such as a knob or a button).
[001561          In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 uses a set of one or more
intensity thresholds to determine whether an operation has been performed by a user (e.g., to
determine whether a user has "clicked" on an icon). In some embodiments, at least a subset of
the intensity thresholds are determined in accordance with software parameters (e.g., the
intensity thresholds are not determined by the activation thresholds of particular physical
actuators and can be adjusted without changing the physical hardware of device 100). For
example, a mouse "click" threshold of a trackpad or touch-screen display can be set to any of
a large range of predefined thresholds values without changing the trackpad or touch-screen
display hardware. Additionally, in some implementations a user of the device is provided
with software settings for adjusting one or more of the set of intensity thresholds (e.g., by
adjusting individual intensity thresholds and/or by adjusting a plurality of intensity thresholds
at once with a system-level click "intensity" parameter).
[001571          As used in the specification and claims, the term "characteristic intensity" of a
contact refers to a characteristic of the contact based on one or more intensities of the contact.
In some embodiments, the characteristic intensity is based on multiple intensity samples. The
characteristic intensity is, optionally, based on a predefined number of intensity samples, or a
set of intensity samples collected during a predetermined time period (e.g., 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5,
1, 2, 5, 10 seconds) relative to a predefined event (e.g., after detecting the contact, prior to
detecting liftoff of the contact, before or after detecting a start of movement of the contact,
prior to detecting an end of the contact, before or after detecting an increase in intensity of the
contact, and/or before or after detecting a decrease in intensity of the contact). A
characteristic intensity of a contact is, optionally based on one or more of: a maximum value
of the intensities of the contact, a mean value of the intensities of the contact, an average
value of the intensities of the contact, a top 10 percentile value of the intensities of the
contact, a value at the half maximum of the intensities of the contact, a value at the 90 percent
maximum of the intensities of the contact, or the like. In some embodiments, the duration of
the contact is used in determining the characteristic intensity (e.g., when the characteristic
intensity is an average of the intensity of the contact over time). In some embodiments, the
characteristic intensity is compared to a set of one or more intensity thresholds to determine
whether an operation has been performed by a user. For example, the set of one or more
intensity thresholds may include a first intensity threshold and a second intensity threshold. In
                                                   46

this example, a contact with a characteristic intensity that does not exceed the first threshold
results in a first operation, a contact with a characteristic intensity that exceeds the first
intensity threshold and does not exceed the second intensity threshold results in a second
operation, and a contact with a characteristic intensity that exceeds the second intensity
threshold results in a third operation. In some embodiments, a comparison between the
characteristic intensity and one or more intensity thresholds is used to determine whether or
not to perform one or more operations (e.g., whether to perform a respective option or forgo
performing the respective operation) rather than being used to determine whether to perform
a first operation or a second operation.
[001581          In some embodiments, a portion of a gesture is identified for purposes of
determining a characteristic intensity. For example, a touch-sensitive surface may receive a
continuous swipe contact transitioning from a start location and reaching an end location
(e.g., a drag gesture), at which point the intensity of the contact increases. In this example, the
characteristic intensity of the contact at the end location may be based on only a portion of
the continuous swipe contact, and not the entire swipe contact (e.g., only the portion of the
swipe contact at the end location). In some embodiments, a smoothing algorithm may be
applied to the intensities of the swipe contact prior to determining the characteristic intensity
of the contact. For example, the smoothing algorithm optionally includes one or more of: an
unweighted sliding-average smoothing algorithm, a triangular smoothing algorithm, a median
filter smoothing algorithm, and/or an exponential smoothing algorithm. In some
circumstances, these smoothing algorithms eliminate narrow spikes or dips in the intensities
of the swipe contact for purposes of determining a characteristic intensity.
[00159]          The user interface figures described herein (e.g., Figures 5A-5HH, 6A-6V,
7A-70, 8A-8R, 9A-9H, 22A-23BA) optionally include various intensity diagrams that show
the current intensity of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface relative to one or more
intensity thresholds (e.g., a contact detection intensity threshold ITO, a hint intensity threshold
ITH, a light press intensity threshold ITL, a deep press intensity threshold ITD (e.g., that is at
least initially higher than IL), and/or one or more other intensity thresholds (e.g., an intensity
threshold IH that is lower than IL)). This intensity diagram is typically not part of the
displayed user interface, but is provided to aid in the interpretation of the figures. In some
embodiments, the light press intensity threshold corresponds to an intensity at which the
device will perform operations typically associated with clicking a button of a physical
mouse or a trackpad. In some embodiments, the deep press intensity threshold corresponds to
                                                   47

an intensity at which the device will perform operations that are different from operations
typically associated with clicking a button of a physical mouse or a trackpad. In some
embodiments, when a contact is detected with a characteristic intensity below the light press
intensity threshold (e.g., and above a nominal contact-detection intensity threshold ITa below
which the contact is no longer detected), the device will move a focus selector in accordance
with movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface without performing an operation
associated with the light press intensity threshold or the deep press intensity threshold.
Generally, unless otherwise stated, these intensity thresholds are consistent between different
sets of user interface figures.
[001601         In some embodiments, the response of the device to inputs detected by the
device depends on criteria based on the contact intensity during the input. For example, for
some "light press" inputs, the intensity of a contact exceeding a first intensity threshold
during the input triggers a first response. In some embodiments, the response of the device to
inputs detected by the device depends on criteria that include both the contact intensity during
the input and time-based criteria. For example, for some "deep press" inputs, the intensity of
a contact exceeding a second intensity threshold during the input, greater than the first
intensity threshold for a light press, triggers a second response only if a delay time has
elapsed between meeting the first intensity threshold and meeting the second intensity
threshold. This delay time is typically less than 200 ms in duration (e.g., 40, 100, or 120 ms,
depending on the magnitude of the second intensity threshold, with the delay time increasing
as the second intensity threshold increases). This delay time helps to avoid accidental deep
press inputs. As another example, for some "deep press" inputs, there is a reduced-sensitivity
time period that occurs after the time at which the first intensity threshold is met. During the
reduced-sensitivity time period, the second intensity threshold is increased. This temporary
increase in the second intensity threshold also helps to avoid accidental deep press inputs. For
other deep press inputs, the response to detection of a deep press input does not depend on
time-based criteria.
[001611         In some embodiments, one or more of the input intensity thresholds and/or the
corresponding outputs vary based on one or more factors, such as user settings, contact
motion, input timing, application running, rate at which the intensity is applied, number of
concurrent inputs, user history, environmental factors (e.g., ambient noise), focus selector
position, and the like. Exemplary factors are described in U.S. Patent Application Serial Nos.
 14/399,606 and 14/624,296, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
                                                    48

[001621          For example, Figure 4C illustrates a dynamic intensity threshold 480 that
changes over time based in part on the intensity of touch input 476 over time. Dynamic
intensity threshold 480 is a sum of two components, first component 474 that decays over
time after a predefined delay time p l from when touch input 476 is initially detected, and
second component 478 that trails the intensity of touch input 476 over time. The initial high
intensity threshold of first component 474 reduces accidental triggering of a "deep press"
response, while still allowing an immediate "deep press" response if touch input 476 provides
sufficient intensity. Second component 478 reduces unintentional triggering of a "deep press"
response by gradual intensity fluctuations of in a touch input. In some embodiments, when
touch input 476 satisfies dynamic intensity threshold 480 (e.g., at point 481 in Figure 4C), the
"deep press" response is triggered.
[00163]          Figure 4D illustrates another dynamic intensity threshold 486 (e.g., intensity
threshold ID). Figure 4D also illustrates two other intensity thresholds: a first intensity
threshold IH and a second intensity threshold IL. In Figure 4D, although touch input 484
satisfies the first intensity threshold IH and the second intensity threshold IL prior to time p2,
no response is provided until delay time p2 has elapsed at time 482. Also in Figure 4D,
dynamic intensity threshold 486 decays over time, with the decay starting at time 488 after a
predefined delay time p1 has elapsed from time 482 (when the response associated with the
second intensity threshold ILwas triggered). This type of dynamic intensity threshold reduces
accidental triggering of a response associated with the dynamic intensity threshold ID
immediately after, or concurrently with, triggering a response associated with a lower
intensity threshold, such as the first intensity threshold IH or the second intensity threshold IL
[00164]          Figure 4E illustrate yet another dynamic intensity threshold 492 (e.g., intensity
threshold ID). In Figure 4E, a response associated with the intensity threshold IL is triggered
after the delay time p2 has elapsed from when touch input 490 is initially detected.
Concurrently, dynamic intensity threshold 492 decays after the predefined delay time p1 has
elapsed from when touch input 490 is initially detected. So a decrease in intensity of touch
input 490 after triggering the response associated with the intensity threshold IL, followed by
an increase in the intensity of touch input 490, without releasing touch input 490, can trigger
a response associated with the intensity threshold ID (e.g., at time 494) even when the
intensity of touch input 490 is below another intensity threshold, for example, the intensity
threshold IL
                                                    49

[001651         An increase of characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity below
the light press intensity threshold ITL to an intensity between the light press intensity
threshold ITL and the deep press intensity threshold ITD is sometimes referred to as a "light
press" input. An increase of characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity below the
deep press intensity threshold ITD to an intensity above the deep press intensity threshold ITD
is sometimes referred to as a "deep press" input. An increase of characteristic intensity of the
contact from an intensity below the contact-detection intensity threshold ITO to an intensity
between the contact-detection intensity threshold ITO and the light press intensity threshold
ITL is sometimes referred to as detecting the contact on the touch-surface. A decrease of
characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity above the contact-detection intensity
threshold ITO to an intensity below the contact-detection intensity threshold ITO is sometimes
referred to as detecting liftoff of the contact from the touch-surface. In some embodiments
ITO is zero. In some embodiments, ITO is greater than zero. In some illustrations a shaded
circle or oval is used to represent intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In
some illustrations, a circle or oval without shading is used represent a respective contact on
the touch-sensitive surface without specifying the intensity of the respective contact.
[001661         In some embodiments, described herein, one or more operations are performed
in response to detecting a gesture that includes a respective press input or in response to
detecting the respective press input performed with a respective contact (or a plurality of
contacts), where the respective press input is detected based at least in part on detecting an
increase in intensity of the contact (or plurality of contacts) above a press-input intensity
threshold. In some embodiments, the respective operation is performed in response to
detecting the increase in intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity
threshold (e.g., the respective operation is performed on a "down stroke" of the respective
press input). In some embodiments, the press input includes an increase in intensity of the
respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold and a subsequent decrease in
intensity of the contact below the press-input intensity threshold, and the respective operation
is performed in response to detecting the subsequent decrease in intensity of the respective
contact below the press-input threshold (e.g., the respective operation is performed on an "up
stroke" of the respective press input).
[001671         In some embodiments, the device employs intensity hysteresis to avoid
accidental inputs sometimes termed "jitter," where the device defines or selects a hysteresis
intensity threshold with a predefined relationship to the press-input intensity threshold (e.g.,
                                                   50

the hysteresis intensity threshold is X intensity units lower than the press-input intensity
threshold or the hysteresis intensity threshold is 75%, 90%, or some reasonable proportion of
the press-input intensity threshold). Thus, in some embodiments, the press input includes an
increase in intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold and a
subsequent decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity threshold that
corresponds to the press-input intensity threshold, and the respective operation is performed
in response to detecting the subsequent decrease in intensity of the respective contact below
the hysteresis intensity threshold (e.g., the respective operation is performed on an "up
stroke" of the respective press input). Similarly, in some embodiments, the press input is
detected only when the device detects an increase in intensity of the contact from an intensity
at or below the hysteresis intensity threshold to an intensity at or above the press-input
intensity threshold and, optionally, a subsequent decrease in intensity of the contact to an
intensity at or below the hysteresis intensity, and the respective operation is performed in
response to detecting the press input (e.g., the increase in intensity of the contact or the
decrease in intensity of the contact, depending on the circumstances).
[001681          For ease of explanation, the description of operations performed in response to
a press input associated with a press-input intensity threshold or in response to a gesture
including the press input are, optionally, triggered in response to detecting: an increase in
intensity of a contact above the press-input intensity threshold, an increase in intensity of a
contact from an intensity below the hysteresis intensity threshold to an intensity above the
press-input intensity threshold, a decrease in intensity of the contact below the press-input
intensity threshold, or a decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity
threshold corresponding to the press-input intensity threshold. Additionally, in examples
where an operation is described as being performed in response to detecting a decrease in
intensity of a contact below the press-input intensity threshold, the operation is, optionally,
performed in response to detecting a decrease in intensity of the contact below a hysteresis
intensity threshold corresponding to, and lower than, the press-input intensity threshold. As
described above, in some embodiments, the triggering of these responses also depends on
time-based criteria being met (e.g., a delay time has elapsed between a first intensity
threshold being met and a second intensity threshold being met).
                                                   51

                    USER INTERFACES AND ASSOCIATED PROCESSES
[001691          Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") and
associated processes that may be implemented on an electronic device, such as portable
multifunction device 100 or device 300, with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or
more sensors to detect intensities of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface.
[00170]          Figures 5A-5HH illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures are
used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 10A-10H,
 11 A-I E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H. For convenience of
explanation, some of the embodiments will be discussed with reference to operations
performed on a device with a touch-sensitive display system 112. In such embodiments, the
focus selector is, optionally: a respective finger or stylus contact, a representative point
corresponding to a finger or stylus contact (e.g., a centroid of a respective contact or a point
associated with a respective contact), or a centroid of two or more contacts detected on the
touch-sensitive display system 112. However, analogous operations are, optionally,
performed on a device with a display 450 and a separate touch- sensitive surface 451 in
response to detecting the contacts on the touch-sensitive surface 451 while displaying the
user interfaces shown in the figures on the display 450, along with a focus selector.
[001711          Figures 5A-5T illustrate exemplary embodiments of a user interface selection
mode that allows a user to efficiently navigate between multiple user interfaces on an
electronic device (e.g., multifunction device 100) in accordance with some embodiments.
Exemplary user interfaces (e.g., user interface 506 displayed on touch screen 112) for the
user interface selection mode include representations of multiple user interfaces (e.g.,
representations 508, 510, 526, 534, 540, and 552 of user interfaces 502, 507, 524, 536, 542,
and 552, respectively for applications associated with the electronic device displayed as a
virtual stack of cards (e.g., the "stack"). User inputs (e.g., contacts, swipe/drag gestures, flick
gestures, etc.) detected on touch screen 112 (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) are used to
navigate between user interfaces that can be selected for display on the screen. Figure 5A
illustrates display of a graphical user interface 502 for a web browsing application on the
electronic device. User interface 502 includes display of status bar 504 that provides
information to the user (e.g., signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s),
time 404, bluetooth indicator 405, and battery status indicator 406). As illustrated in Figures
                                                   52

5B-5C, the device enters a user interface selection mode upon detecting deep press 504 on the
left side of the bezel of the device (e.g., an exemplary predetermined input) that includes an
increase in intensity of a contact from an intensity below ITD to an intensity above ITD
[00172]           In some embodiments, a system level gesture is used to activate a user
interface selection mode. For example, as illustrated in Figures 5B and 5C, a deep press on
the left side of the bezel of the device activates the user interface selection mode. In an
alternative embodiment, as illustrated in Figures 5EE and 5C, where the device is capable of
distinguishing between user thumb contacts and user finger contacts, detection of deep thumb
press 570 on touch-screen 112 (e.g., anywhere on an associated touch-sensitive surface)
activates the user interface selection mode (e.g., device 100 replaces display of user interface
502 with display of user interface 506 in response to detecting a thumb press that includes an
increase in intensity of a contact from an intensity below ITD to an intensity above ITD)- In
contrast, as illustrated in Figures 5FF-5GG, in response to detecting deep finger press 572
within user interface 502 (e.g., at the same position that device 100 detected thumb deep
press 570 in Figure 5EE), the device previews web content associated with an object
displayed at the location of deep finger press 572 (e.g., the device displays preview window
574 in Figure 5GG). Thus, in some embodiments, the device distinguishes between both the
type of gesture (e.g., deep thumb press vs. deep finger press) and the location of the gesture
(e.g., deep finger press on the left side of the bezel vs. deep finger press within the user
interface) when selecting between activating a user interface selection mode and performing
an application-specific operation (e.g., previewing web content).
[00173]           Figures 5C-5F illustrate exemplary user interfaces (e.g., graphical user
interface 502) for the user interface selection mode that include representation 508 of web
browsing user interface 502 that was displayed on touch screen 112 immediately preceding
entry into the user interface selection mode and at least representation 510 of messaging user
interface 506.
[00174]           Optional title bars 512 and 522 provide information about the user interface
being represented in the card. For example, title bar 512 includes the name "Safari" 514 and
icon 516 associated with the web browsing application user interface 502 represented in card
508. Similarly, title bar 522 includes the name "Messages" 520 and icon 518 associated with
messaging application user interface 506 represented in card 510. In some embodiments, the
title area (e.g., title bar) is not part of the user interface representation card. In some
                                                       53

embodiments, the title bar is not illustrated as detached from the user interface representation
card. In some embodiments, title information (e.g., a title bar, application name, and/or icon
corresponding to an application) is displayed as hovering above or below the user interface
representation card. In some embodiments, the user interface selection mode does not include
display of title information.
[001751          Figures 5C-5E illustrate exemplary user interfaces for the user interface
selection mode that display the user interface representations without substantial depth (e.g.,
in a substantially two-dimensional representation), as if the user is looking down at a deck of
cards being spread out on a table. As illustrated, multiple cards are viewed as if spread out in
a straight line to the right from the top of a stack of cards on the left hand side of the display.
However, in some embodiments, the cards are spread out to the left from the top of a stack of
cards on the right hand side of the display, and/or spread out askew or along a non-linear path
(e.g., along a curved or seemingly random path).
[00176]          Figure 5C illustrates an embodiment where the card for the user interface that
was displayed immediately prior to entering the user interface selection mode is displayed as
the top card in the user interface selection stack. For example, user interface 502 shows web
browsing card 508 (e.g., representation 508 of web browsing user interface 502) displayed
over messaging card 510 (e.g., representation 510 of messaging user interface 507).
[001771          Figure 5D illustrates an embodiment where the card for the user interface that
was displayed immediately prior to entering the user interface selection mode is displayed
further back in the user interface selection stack. For example, user interface 502 shows web
browsing card 508 (e.g., representation 508 of web browsing user interface 502) displayed
under messaging card 510 (e.g., representation 510 of messaging user interface 507).
[00178]          Figure 5E illustrates an embodiment where the stack includes more than two
cards. For example, user interface 502 shows web browsing card 508 displayed over
messaging card 510, which in turn is displayed over photo card 526 (e.g., representation 526
of user interface 524 for an image management application). The cards at the top of the stack
are spread out more relative to each other than are the cards further back in the stack,
revealing more of the cards at the top of the stack than those further back. For example, web
browsing card 508 is spread out farther to the right relative to messaging card 510 than is
messaging card 510 relative to photo card 526. Thus, more of messaging card 510 is revealed
on touch screen 112 than photo card 526; evidenced by display of the entirety of messaging
                                                    54

icon 518 and only a portion of photo icon 528. Additional cards present in the stack are
illustrated as one or more edges 503 displayed under card 528 (e.g., the bottom most card that
is partially displayed).
[001791          Figure 5F illustrates an exemplary user interface for the user interface
selection mode that displays the user interface representation cards with substantial depth
(e.g., in a three-dimensional representation), as if the user is looking down at cards that are
sequentially levitating, along a virtual z-axis substantially orthogonal to the plane of the
display, from a deck of cards sitting on a table. The cards become larger as they extend
further away from the bottom of the stack, giving the appearance that they are travelling
substantially towards the user. For example, web browsing card 508 is displayed as larger
than messaging card 510 on touch screen 112 because it is further away from the bottom of
the stack. As illustrated, multiple cards are viewed as if travelling along a straight or slightly
curved path up (e.g., along the virtual z-axis) and to the right from a stack of cards on the left
hand side of the display. However, in some embodiments, the cards travel up and to the left
from a stack of cards on the right hand side of the display, and/or travel askew or along a
non-linear path (e.g., along a curved or seemingly random path).
[00180]          Figures 5G-5K illustrate movement of the user interface representation cards
on the display in response to a user input (e.g., navigation between multiple user interface
representations) in a substantially two-dimensional representation of the stack. As illustrated
in Figure 5G, device 100 displays a stack of user interface cards 508, 510, and 526 spread out
to the right. Device 100 detects a drag gesture (e.g., a user input) including contact 530 and
movement 532 originating from a location of touch screen 112 displaying messaging card
510 (e.g., the user touches and drags messaging card 510).
[00181]          In response to detecting movement 532 of contact 530 from location 530-a in
Figure 5G to location 530-b in Figure 5H, and continuing to location 530-c in Figure 5I, the
device further spreads out the user interface cards to the right (e.g., in the direct of the drag
gesture). As illustrated in Figures 5G-5I, messaging card 510 moves laterally across the
screen at the same speed as contact 530 (e.g., is directly manipulated by the contact) from
location 510-a in Figure 5G to location 510-b in Figure 5H, and continuing to location 510-c
in Figure 5I, as if the contact was actually pressing down and moving the card on a table.
This is illustrated by maintaining a fixed display of card 510 relative to the location of contact
530 on touch screen 112 (e.g., the touch-sensitive surface). For example, the word "Will" in
                                                   55

the representation of messaging user interface 507 remains directly under the contact in
Figures 5G-51.
[00182]          As illustrated in Figures 5G-51, cards displayed above the card being directly
manipulated by the contact move faster than the contact. For example, web browsing card
508 moves faster than contact 530, and thus faster than messaging card 510, traveling from
location 508-a in Figure 5G to location 508-b in Figure 5H, and eventually off of the screen
(e.g., to the right of the right edge of touch screen 112) in Figure 51. As a result of the
difference in speeds between cards, more of messaging card 510 is revealed from under web
browsing card 508 as contact 530 moves to the right. For example, as a result of contact 530
moving from location 530-a in Figure 5G to location 530-b in Figure 5H, more of the
conversation in the representation of user interface 507 is revealed (this is also shown by the
appearance of the name "Messages" 520 in title area 522 above card 510 in Figure 5H after
being covered by web browsing card 508 in Figure 5G).
[00183]          As illustrated in Figures 5G-5I, cards displayed below the card being directly
manipulated by the contact move faster than the contact. For example, photo card 5026
moves slower than contact 530, and thus slower than messaging card 510. As a result of the
difference in speeds between cards, more of photo card 526 is revealed from under messaging
card 510 as contact 530 moves to the right. For example, as a result of contact 530 moving
from location 530-a in Figure 5G to location 530-b in Figure 5H, more of the photographs the
representation of user interface 524 are revealed (this is also shown by the gradual
appearance of name "Photo" 532 in the title area above card 526 in Figures 5H and 5G).
[00184]          Figure 5H also illustrates revealing of previously hidden music card 534 (e.g.,
representation 534 or user interface 536 for a music management/playing application) from
under photo card 526, as photo card moves from location 526-a in Figure 5G (e.g., where it is
displayed as sitting on top of all the hidden cards in the stack) to location 526-b in Figure 5H.
This movement gives the user the effect that photo card 526 is being slid off the top of the
deck of cards, revealing part of the next card (e.g., music card 534).
[00185]          Figure 5J illustrates lift-off of contact 530 at location 530-c. As illustrated in
Figures 5G-5J, movement of the representation cards across the display stops when
movement 532 of contact 530 stops at Figure 5I and lift-off of contact 530 is detected in
Figure 5J. This is illustrated in Figure 5J by maintaining display of messaging card 510 at
                                                     56

location 510-c, where it was displayed after stopping movement 532 of contact 530 at
location 530-c in Figure 5I.
[00186]          The series of figures 5G, 5H, 5J, and 5K, illustrates lift-off of contact 530
prior to stopping movement 532. As illustrated in Figure 5K, representation cards 510, 526,
and 534 continue to move across touch screen 112 (e.g., with diminishing momentum). This
is illustrated by the change in location, for example, of messaging card 510 from location
510-c in Figure 5J (when lift off of contact 530 is detected) to location 510-d in Figure 5K. In
some embodiments, continued momentum of a representation card moving across the display
occurs in response to a flick gesture (e.g., inertial scrolling of UI representation cards, where
the cards move with simulate inertia and slow down with simulate friction and have an initial
velocity that is based on a velocity of the contact at a predefined time corresponding to liftoff
of the contact from the touch-sensitive surface such as the velocity at liftoff of the contact or
the velocity of the contact just before liftoff of the contact).
[001871          Figure 5K also illustrates revealing telephony card 540 (e.g., representation
540 of user interface 542 for a telephony application) as previously hidden music card 534
moves from location 534-c in Figure 5J to location 534-d in Figure 5K. Thus, in some
embodiments, the stack includes more than one hidden card that can be revealed by
continuing to navigate the user interface selection mode.
[00188]          Although movement of the cards in response to the drag gesture is illustrated
along a straight line in Figures 5G-5K, in some embodiments, movement of the cards may be
askew of a predefined axis or path in response to a similarly askew user input. In some
embodiments, the path of the cards is fixed along a predefined path and vector components of
a movement that are orthogonal to the predefined path (e.g., the downward component to
movement of a contact from the upper left hand side to the lower right hand side of a touch
sensitive surface) is ignored when moving display of the cards across the screen. In some
embodiments, a vector component of a movement that is orthogonal to a predefined
movement path are reflected in the movement of one or more cards across the screen (e.g.,
the card being directly manipulated by the contact may be pulled up or down from the path of
the stack, or the entire path of the stack-e.g., all the cards-may be altered).
[00189]          In some embodiments, a vector component of a movement that is orthogonal
to a predefined movement path is ignored when the movement creates an angle with the
predefined movement path that is below a threshold angle and is accounted for when the
                                                    57

movement creates an angle with the predefined movement path that is above the threshold
angle. For example, the movement of one or more representation cards is stabilized when
user input movements are askew of the predefined movement path by less than a threshold
angle (e.g., 150), to account for undesired drift in the user's movement. But, when the user
makes an obvious upwards gesture (e.g., at an angle 80' askew of the predefined movement
path), one or more representation cards are moved up or down on the display, in
correspondence with the orthogonal vector component of the movement (e.g., so that the user
can remove a card from the stack while continuing to navigate through the remaining cards).
[00190]           Figures 5L-5N illustrate movement of the representation cards in the opposite
direction in response to a user input including movement in the opposite direction. Figure 5L
illustrates display of user interface 506 for the user interface selection mode after lift-off of
contact 530 in Figures 5I-5J (e.g., without inertial scrolling). The device detects a second
drag gesture (e.g., user input) including contact 546 and movement 548 originating at a
location on touch screen 112 displaying messaging card 510 (e.g., the user touches and drags
messaging card 510 back towards the base of the stack).
[00191]           In response to detecting movement 548 of contact 546 from location 546-c in
Figure 5L to location 546-d in Figure 5M, and continuing to location 5N in Figure 5N, the
device pulls UI representation cards 534, 526, 510, and 508 back towards the base of the
stack. Messaging card 510 moves laterally across the screen at the same speed as contact 548
(e.g., is directly manipulated by the contact) from location 5 10-c in Figure 5L to location
51 0-e in Figure 5H, and continuing to location 5 10-f in Figure 5I because the card was
displayed at a location corresponding to contact 546. This is illustrated by maintaining a fixed
display of card 510 relative to the location of contact 546 on touch screen 112. For example,
the word "Do" in the representation of messaging user interface 507 remains directly to the
upper left of the contact in Figures 5L-5N.
[00192]           As illustrated in Figures 5M-5N, web browsing card 508 moves faster than
contact 546 because it is displayed above messaging card 510. Because messaging card 510
is traveling at the same speed as contact 546, web browsing card 508 is also traveling faster
than messaging card 510. As a result, web browsing card 508 starts to catch-up to, and cover,
messaging card 508. For example, web browsing card 508 only covers the edge of messaging
card 510 in Figure 5M. Web browsing card 508 starts to slide over messaging card 510 with
                                                   58

continued movement 548 of contact 546 to the left on the display, covering half of messaging
card 510 in Figure 5N.
[00193]         As illustrated in Figures 5M-5N, photo card 526 moves slower than contact
546 because it is displayed above messaging card 510. Because messaging card 510 is
traveling at the same speed as contact 546, photo card 526 is also traveling slower than
messaging card 510. As a result, messaging card 510 starts to catch-up to, and cover, photo
card 546. For example, application name "Photo" 532 associated with photo card 526 is
completely exposed in Figure 5L. Message card 510 gradually slides further over photo card
526 with continued movement 548 of contact 546 to the left on the display, completely
eclipsing application name "Photo" 532 when contact 546 reaches location 546-f in Figure
5N.
[00194]         Figure 50 illustrates the speed of user interface representation cards relative to
the lateral speed of contacts 530 and 546, as illustrated in Figures 5G-5I and 5L-5N on touch
screen 112. As illustrated in the top panel, contact 530 moves left to right across touch screen
 112 at a constant speed equal to the slope of movement 532 (e.g., graphically represented as a
function of pixels over time). After lift-off of contact 530 at location 530-c, the device detects
contact 546, moving back right to left across touch-sensitive screen 112 at a constant speed
equal to the slope of movement 548 (e.g., graphically represented as a function of pixels over
time. Because contacts 530 and 546 are detected at locations on touch screen 112
corresponding to display of messaging card 510, the speed of messaging card 510 is equal to
the speed of the contact.
[00195]         The middle panel of Figure 50 illustrates the relative speeds of the UI
representation cards along speed curve 550, when at location "e" during movement 548 of
contact 546 (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 5M). The relative lateral speed of messaging card
510 when at location 510-f is equal to the absolute value of the slope of movement 548, as
graphically illustrated in the top panel of Figure 50. Because web browsing card 508 was at a
relative Z-position that is above (e.g., along the virtual Z-axis substantially orthogonal to the
plane of the display of the device) messaging card 510 in user interface 506 (e.g., an
exemplary user interface for the user interface selection mode), speed curve 550 shows that
web browsing card 508 is traveling relatively faster than messaging card 510. Similarly,
because photo card 526 has a relative Z-position that is below messaging card 510 in user
                                                   59

interface 506, speed curve 550 shows that the photo card 526 is travelling slower than
messaging card 510.
[00196]          The absolute lateral speeds of representation cards 526, 510, and 508 are
relative to the actual speed of the user gesture (e.g., the lateral component of a user's contact
moving across the touch-sensitive surface). As shown in the middle panel of Figure 50, user
contact 546 is directly manipulating movement of messaging card 510 because the contact is
at a location on touch screen 112 corresponding to display of messaging card 510, Thus, the
speed of messaging card 510 is the speed of the user contact. The lateral speed of web
browsing card 508 is equal to a factor of the speed of the user contact, e.g., equal to the speed
of the user contact multiplied by a coefficient, where the coefficient is larger than 1 (e.g.,
because web browsing card 508 has a higher z-position relative to messaging card 510, which
is being directly manipulated by user contact 546). The lateral speed of photo card 526 is also
equal to a factor of the speed of the user contact, e.g., equal to the speed of the user contact
multiplied by a coefficient, where the coefficient is smaller than 1 (e.g., because photo card
526 has a lower z-position relative to messaging card 510, which is being directly
manipulated by user contact 546).
[001971         The middle panel of Figure 50 also illustrates, as in some embodiments, the
level of blurring applied to each card in the stack is relative to the absolute z-position of the
card. Thus, as cards are spread out (e.g., to the right) from the stack, their absolute z-position
increases and the blur applied decreases. In some embodiments, the device applies a dynamic
change in blurring to a particular card as its absolute z-position is manipulated by a user
input.
[00198]         As illustrated in Figure 5M-5N, when moving in the opposite direction of the
original gesture (e.g., back towards the base of the stack), web browsing card 508 catches up
to contact 546 because it is travelling faster, as illustrated in Figure 50. Web browsing card
508 moves between contact 546 and messaging card 510 when the leading edge (the left
edge) of web browsing card 508 is displayed at location 508-f on touch screen, corresponding
to the centroid of contact 546 at location 546-f. At this point, contact 546 begins to directly
manipulate web browsing card 508, rather than messaging card 510.
[00199]         As illustrated in Figures 5N and 5HH, device 100 detects continuation of
movement 548 of contact 546 from location 546-f in Figure 5N to location 546-g in Figure
5HH. In response, web browsing card 508 continues to move laterally across the screen back
                                                    60

towards the base of the stack (e.g., from location 508-f in Figure 5N to location 5-g in Figure
5HH) at the same speed as contact 546 (which is now directly manipulating web browsing
card 508 rather than messaging card 510), as indicated by maintaining a fixed display of card
508 relative to the location of contact 546 on touch screen 112.
[00200]          As illustrated in the lower panel of Figure 50, the speed of UI cards 526, 510,
and 508 slow down when this handoff occurs. Web browsing card 508 moves at a speed
corresponding to the speed of contact 546 when displayed at location 508-f (e.g., as in Figure
5N), as did messaging card 510 when it was displayed at location 510-e (e.g., as in Figure
5M, and as shown in the middle panel of Figure 50). Similarly, messaging card 508 travels at
the same lower relative speed when displayed at location 5 10-f (e.g., as in Figure 5N) as did
photo card 526 when displayed at 526-e (e.g., as in Figure 5M), because it is now the card
below the card under contact 546. Finally, photo card 526 moves at a slower speed when
displayed at location 526-f (e.g., as in Figure 5N) than it did when displayed at location 526-e
(e.g., as in Figure 5M). Although the movements of the UI cards are illustrated at constant
speeds, the speeds of the cards are relative to the speed of the user input. Thus, the electronic
device moves the UI cards at variable speeds in response to detecting a user input gesture
with variable speed.
[00201]          Speed curve 5550 is an exemplary representation of the relationship between
the speeds of the respective UI representation cards displayed in the stack. A first card (e.g.,
web browsing card 508) displayed above a second card (e.g., messaging card 510) in relative
Z-position (e.g., along the virtual z-axis) will always travel faster than the second card. In
some embodiments, speed curve 550 is representative of other variable manipulations in the
display of the UI representation cards. For example, the level of blurring applied to a
respective card in the stack (e.g., cards displayed further down in the stack are more blurry
than cards displayed towards the top of the stack), the size of a respective card in the stack
(e.g., in user interface selection mode user interfaces displaying the stack as a three
dimensional representation, cards displayed further down in the stack appear smaller than
cards displayed towards the top of the stack), or the lateral position of a respective card in the
stack (e.g., in user interface selection mode user interfaces displaying the stack as a
substantially two-dimensional representation, cards displayed further down in the stack
appear closer to the base of the stack than cards displayed towards the top of the stack).
                                                   61

[002021          In some embodiments, the spacing of points on speed curve 550 (e.g.,
corresponding to placement of UI representation cards relative to one another) have a
constant difference in ordinate value (e.g., the change in the z-dimension, as represented by
the vertical difference, between two points is the same). In some embodiments, as illustrated
in Figure 50, where speed curve 550 follows a concave function, there is an increasing
difference in the perpendicular distance between successive points (e.g., larger changes in
the x direction ) . For example, the difference between the relative Z-positions of photo card
526 and messaging card 510 is the same as the difference between the relative Z-positions of
messaging card 510 and web browsing card 508. However, the difference between the lateral
speeds of messaging card 510 and web browsing card 508 is greater than the difference
between the lateral speeds of photo card 526 and messaging card 510. This causes a visual
effect on the display that the top card displayed on a stack will quickly move off the screen
relative to the revealing of cards displayed further back in the stack.
[00203]          Figures 5P-5T illustrate movement of user interface representation cards on
the display in response to a user input (e.g., navigation between multiple user interface
representations) in a substantially three-dimensional representation of the stack. As illustrated
in Figure 5P, device 100 displays a stack of user interface cards 508, 510, and 526 which
appear to be spreading up from a stack of cards set behind the device. Web browsing card
508 is offset to the right, partially covers messaging card 510, and is displayed larger than
messaging card 510 (e.g., to simulating that it is positioned above messaging card 510 in a
virtual z-dimension substantially orthogonal to the plane of touch screen 112). Messaging
card 510 and photo card 526 are displayed as increasingly blurred relative to web browsing
card 508 (e.g., further simulating distance in the display). Figure 5Q additionally illustrates
display of home screen card 554 (e.g., representation 554 of a user interface 552 for a home
screen on the device).
[00204]           As illustrated in Figure 5R, device 100 detects a flick gesture (e.g., a user
input) including contact 556 and movement 558 originating from a location of touch screen
112 displaying messaging card 510 (e.g., the user touches and drags messaging card 5 10). In
response to detecting movement 558 of contact 556 from location 556-a in Figure 5G to
location 556-b in Figure 5H, and continuing to location 556-c in Figure 5I, the device moves
the cards away from the base of the stack and towards the screen along the virtual z-axis. For
example, messaging card 510 gets larger and moves to the right as it moves from location
                                                  62

510-a in Figure 5R to location 510-b in Figure 5S, and continues to get larger as it moves off
the screen to the right at location 510-c in Figure 5T.
[00205]         Figure 5T illustrates detection of the lift-off of contact 556 at location 556-c
without stopping movement 558, consistent with a flick gesture. Messaging card 510, which
was traveling with contact 556 (e.g., as the same speed; being directly manipulated by contact
556), continues to move on the display with simulated inertia, finally stopping at location
510-c on touch screen 112.
[00206]         Figures 5R-5T also illustrate a change in the level of blurring applied to UI
representation cards as they move away from the base of the stack. For example, photo card
526 is moderately blurry when first displayed at location 526-a as the bottom card visible in
the stack. As photo card 526 moves from location 526-a in Figure 5R to location 526-b in
Figure 5S (e.g., in response to movement 558 of contact 556 from location 556-a in Figure
5R to location 556-b in Figure 5S), and eventually to location 556-c in Figure 5T, it gradually
comes into focus (e.g., becomes less blurry). In some embodiments, the level of blur applied
to a UI representation card follows a similar relationship to that of lateral speed relative to the
card's Z-position, as illustrated in speed curve 550 in Figure 50.
[002071         Figures 5U-5W illustrate insertion of a user interface representation card for a
transient application activated while the device is in a user interface selection mode. Figure
5U illustrates user interface 506 for a user interface selection mode displaying a stack of user
interface cards 508, 510, 526, and 534, being navigated by a user. Device 100 then receives a
phone call and in response, as illustrated in Figures 5V-5W, shuffles telephony card 554 (e.g.,
representation 554 of user interface 556 for a received call within a telephony application)
into the stack at location 555-b, as illustrated in Figure 5W. As illustrated in Figures 5V-5W,
the device moves web browsing card 508 and messaging card 510 up in the stack to (e.g.,
from locations 508-b and 510-b, represented as dashed outlines in Figure 5V off the display
and to location 5 10-e in Figure 5W, respectively) to make room for telephony card 556.
Although Figures 5V-5W illustrate an animation where telephony card 555 is brought into
the screen, in Figure 5V, and inserted into the stack, in Figure 5W, behind web browsing card
508 and messaging card 510, other animations and placement for the user interface
representation of the transient application are contemplated (e.g., the new card becomes the
top of the stack or cards further back in the stack are pushed further down to make room for
the new card).
                                                    63

[002081          Figures 5X-5AA illustrate removal of a user interface representation card upon
detection of a predefined user input. Figure 5X illustrates user interface 506 for a user
interface selection mode displaying a stack of user interface cards 508, 510, 526, and 534,
being navigated by a user. Device 100 detects a swipe gesture including contact 560 and
movement 562 substantially orthogonal to the predefined movement path of the cards in the
stack (e.g., the swipe moves up touch screen 112, while cards in the stack move right and left
across the screen when navigating), originating from a location of touch screen 112
displaying messaging card 510. In response to detecting movement 562 of contact 560 from
location 560-a in Figure 5X to location 560-b in Figure 5Y, and continuing to location 560-c
in Figure 5Z, the device lifts messaging card 510 out of the stack and sends it off of the
screen (e.g., via movement from location 510-b in Figure 5X to location 510-f in Figure 5Y,
continuing to location 51 0-g in Figure 5Z).
[00209]          As illustrated in Figures 5Z-5AA, device 100 moves photo card 526 and music
card 534 up in the stack after messaging card 510 is removed. Photo card 526 is moves from
location 526-g in Figure 5Z to location 526-h in Figure 5AA, replacing the hole in the stack
caused by removal of messaging card 510. Likewise, music card 534 moves from location
534-g in Figure 5Z to location 534-h in Figure 5AA, replacing the hole in the stack caused
when photo card 526 moved up in the stack. The level of blurring applied to photo card 526
and music card 534 is also adjusted in accordance with their movement up in the stack. For
example, photo card 526 is partially blurry when displayed at location 526-g in Figure 5Z,
but in focus when displayed at location 526-h in Figure 5AA. In some embodiments, removal
of the user interface representation card from the stack also closes an active application
associated with the user interface.
[00210]          Figures 5BB and 5CC illustrate leaving the user interface selection mode by
selecting a user interface representation. Figure 5BB illustrates user interface 506 for a user
interface selection mode displaying a stack of user interface cards 508, 510, 526, and 534,
being navigated by a user. Device 100 detects a tap gesture including contact 564 at a
location on touch screen 112 displaying messaging card 510 (e.g., representation 510 of user
interface 507 for a messaging application). In response to detecting the tap gesture, the device
activates the messaging application associated with user interface 507 and changes the
display on touch screen 112 from user interface 506 for the user interface selection mode to
user interface 507 for the messaging application, as illustrated in Figure 5CC.
                                                  64

[002111          Figure 5DD illustrates visual effects applied to a title area associated with a
first user interface representation card as the user interface representation card displayed
above the first card moves into close proximity. Figure 5DD illustrates messaging card 510
displayed over photo card 526 in user interface 506 of a user interface selection mode that
includes a substantially two-dimensional representation of the stack. Photo card 526 is
associated with title bar 558 including name "Photos" 532 and icon 526 for the image
management application associated with user interface 524. Messaging card 510 is associated
with title bar 522 displaying information related to the messaging application associated with
user interface 507. Display of messaging card 510 gradually slides over photo card 526 over
time (via movement from location 510-a in the top panel, through locations 510-b and 510-c
in the middle panels, to location 510-d in the bottom panel of Figure 5DD). As the edge of
messaging title bar 522 approaches display of name "Photos" 532 on photo title bar 558
(when messaging card 510 is at location 508-b in the second panel), the device applies a
transitional fading of name "Photos" 532. Panel three of Figure 5DD illustrates that display
of name "Photos" 532 is removed prior to messaging title bar 522 eclipsing its previous
location on photo title bar 558.
[00212]          Similarly, as the edge of messaging title bar 522 approaches display of icon
528 associated with the image management application on photo title bar 558 (when
messaging card 510 is at location 508-d in the bottom panel of Figure 5DD), the device
applies a transitional fading of icon 528, such that display of icon 528 is removed from the
display prior messaging title bar 522 eclipsing its previous location on photo title bar 558. In
some embodiments, e.g., where the user interface selection mode includes a substantially
three-dimensional representation of the stack, it the edge of the second user interface
representation card (e.g., the card on top), rather than the associated title bar, that approaches,
and triggers the animation removing, display of the title information associated with the first
user interface representation card (e.g., the card on bottom). In certain embodiments, the
animation applied to the information displayed in the title area (e.g., title bar) is a blurring or
clipping, rather than the fading illustrated in Figure 5DD. In some embodiments, the icons
stack up, rather than disappear, when the next user representation card approaches.
[00213]          Figures 6A-6V illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures are
used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 1OA-1OH,
 11 A-I E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H. Although some of the
                                                   65

examples which follow will be given with reference to inputs on a touch-screen display
(where the touch-sensitive surface and the display are combined), in some embodiments, the
device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface 451 that is separate from the display 450, as
shown in Figure 4B.
[00214]          Figures 6A-6V illustrate exemplary embodiments of a user interface selection
mode that allows a user to peek at representations of previously displayed user interfaces
without leaving a current user interface, allow a user to quickly toggle between two
respective user interfaces, and allow a user to easily enter into user interface selection modes
with different types of hierarchal selections on an electronic device (e.g., multifunction
device 100). Exemplary user interfaces (e.g., user interface 506 displayed on touch screen
 112) for the user interface selection mode include representations of multiple user interfaces
(e.g., representations 508, 510, 526, 534, 540, and 552 of user interfaces 502, 507, 524, 536,
542, and 552, respectively) for applications associated with the electronic device displayed as
a virtual stack of cards (e.g., the "stack") or as a choice between the two most recently
displayed user interfaces. User inputs (e.g., contacts, swipe/drag gestures, flick gestures, etc.)
detected on touch screen 112 (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) are used to navigate between
user interfaces that can be selected for display on the screen (e.g., touch screen 112).
[00215]          Figures 6A-6G illustrate an embodiment where a user operating an electronic
device displaying a first user interface (e.g., any user interface for a respective application
open on the device, such as a web browsing user interface) can navigate between (i) peeking
at a previously displayed user interface and reverting back to the first user interface, (ii)
changing to a previous application, (iii) entering a user interface selection mode (e.g., an
application selection mode), and (iv) scrolling through user interfaces within a user interface
selection mode with differential gestures starting from a common contact on a touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touch screen 112 on multifunction device 100).
[00216]          Figures 6A-6D illustrate an embodiment where a user views (e.g., "peeks" at)
a representation of a previously displayed user interface and then automatically reverts back
to the user interface that was displayed on the device before peeking (e.g., reverts back to the
application that was open on the device). Figure 6A illustrates display of a graphical user
interface 502 for a web browsing application on the electronic device.
[002171          As illustrated in Figures 6B-6C, the device enters a user interface preview
mode upon detection of a user input including contact 602 adjacent to the left edge of touch
                                                    66

screen 112 (e.g., on the bezel) with an intensity below a predetermined threshold (e.g., below
deep press intensity threshold (ITD); e.g., an exemplary predetermined input). While detecting
the input including contact 602, the device replaces display of web browsing user interface
502 on touch screen 112, as illustrated in Figure 6B, with display of user interface selection
mode 506. User selection mode 506 includes user interface representation of the last two user
interfaces displayed on touch screen 112, e.g., representation 508 of web browsing user
interface 502 and representation 510 of messaging user interface 507. As illustrated in
Figures 6B and 6C, the intensity of contact 602 is maintained below a deep press intensity
threshold (ITD) (e.g., an exemplary predetermined intensity threshold), and the contact is
stationary at the original detection point.
[00218]          Device 100 then detects termination of the user input including contact 602 in
Figure 6D. Because the intensity of contact 602 was maintained below a deep press intensity
threshold (ITD), and because the user input did not include movement of contact 602 (e.g.,
movement in a predefined direction on touch screen 112), device 100 reverts the display back
to web browsing user interface 502 upon detection of termination (e.g., lift off) of contact 602
by replacing display of user interface 506 with display of user interface 502.
[00219]          Figure series 6A, 6E-6G illustrate an alternate embodiment where a user views
(e.g., "peeks" at) a representation of a previously displayed user interface and selects display
of the previously displayed user interface, rather than reverting back to the user interface that
was displayed on the device before peeking. Figure 6A illustrates display of a graphical user
interface 502 for a web browsing application on the electronic device.
[00220]          Figure 6E illustrates that the device enters a user interface preview mode upon
detection of a user input including contact 604 adjacent to the left edge of touch screen 112
(e.g., on the bezel) with an intensity below a predetermined threshold (e.g., below deep press
intensity threshold (ITD); e.g., an exemplary predetermined input). While detecting the input
including contact 604, the device replaces display of web browsing user interface 502 on
touch screen 112, with display of user interface selection mode 506. User selection mode 506
includes user interface representation of the last two user interfaces displayed on touch screen
 112, e.g., representation 508 of web browsing user interface 502 and representation 510 of
messaging user interface 507. As illustrated in Figures 5B and 5C, the intensity of contact
604 is maintained below a deep press intensity threshold (ITD) (e.g., an exemplary
predetermined intensity threshold). However, electronic device detects movement 606 of
                                                   67

contact 604 in a predefined direction (e.g., laterally across touch screen 112) from location
604-a in Figure 6E to location 604-b in Figure 6F.
[00221]          Device 100 then detects termination of the user input including contact 604 in
Figure 6D. Because the intensity of contact 604 was maintained below a deep press intensity
threshold (ITD), and because the user input included movement of contact 604 in a predefined
direction on touch screen 112 (e.g., laterally across the display), device 100 replaces display
user interface 506 with display of user interface 507 for a messaging application, rather than
reverting back to web browsing user interface 502, as illustrated in Figure 6D.
[00222]          Thus, in some embodiments, when a user input invoking the user interface
preview mode has a characteristic intensity (e.g., a maximum intensity for the duration of the
input below a predetermined threshold) a user can distinguish between reverting back to
display of the user interface displayed immediately preceding entry into the user interface
preview mode (e.g., when the user is just peeking at a previously displayed user interface)
and changing the display to the previously displayed user interface by moving the contact
associated with the gesture in a predetermined direction or not (e.g., keeping the contact
stationary).
[00223]           Figure series 6A, 6H-61 illustrate another alternate embodiment where a user
views (e.g., "peeks" at) a representation of a previously displayed user interface and selects to
stably enter a user interface selection mode, rather than reverting back to display of either of
the previously displayed user interfaces represented during the user's peek. Figure 6A
illustrates display of a graphical user interface 502 for a web browsing application on the
electronic device.
[00224]          As previously illustrated in Figures 6C and 6E, the device enters a user
interface preview mode upon detection of a user input including a contact adjacent to the left
edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., on the bezel) with an intensity below a predetermined
threshold (e.g., below deep press intensity threshold (ITD); e.g., an exemplary predetermined
input). Figure 6H further illustrates that upon detection of an increase in the intensity of the
invoking contact (e.g., contact 608 in Figure 6H), the device enters a stable user interface
selection mode. Upon entering the stable user interface selection mode, device 100 displays a
stack of user interface representation cards on touch screen 112, including user interface
representations 508, 510, and 526 displayed in relative Z-positions (e.g., as described for
Figured 5A-5HH).
                                                   68

[002251          Device 100 then detects termination of the user input including contact 608 in
Figure 61. Because the intensity of contact 608 exceeded a predetermined intensity threshold
(e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) for invoking a stable user interface mode, device
100 does not replace the display of user interface 506 on touch screen 112. In some
embodiments, further navigation within the stable user interface selection mode is performed
as described for Figures 5A-5HH.
[00226]          Thus, in some embodiments, the user can further distinguish between peeking
and selecting one of a limited number of user interfaces displayed in a user interface selection
preview mode for display on touch screen 112 and entering a stable user interface selection
mode with further navigational controls based on the intensity of the contact used to invoke
the user interface selection preview mode.
[002271          Figures 6J-6L illustrate an embodiment in which the user directly manipulates
display of a user interface selection mode by increasing the intensity of a user input. Figure
6J illustrates entry into a stable user interface selection mode, including display of a stack of
user interface representation cards (e.g., user interface representations 508, 510, and 526
displayed in relative Z-positions with each other, e.g., as described for Figure 5A-5HH) in
user interface 506 by detection of contact 610 adjacent to the left edge of touch screen 112
(e.g., on the bezel) with an intensity exceeding a predetermined intensity threshold (e.g., deep
press intensity threshold (ITD))
[00228]          Figures 6K-6L illustrate that when device 100 detects further increases in the
intensity of contact 610, user interface representation cards displayed in the stack are spread
out (e.g., along a z-axis substantially orthogonal to the plane of the display) based on direct
manipulation of the contact intensity by the user. In some embodiments, as illustrated in
Figures 6K-6L, a small change in intensity (e.g., from an intensity detected just below the top
tick mark in Figure 6K to an intensity detected just above top tick mark in Figure 6L) causes
movement of messaging card 510 from location 510-b in Figure 6K to location 510-c in
Figure 6L, revealing more of photo card 526 and music card 534 in Figure 6L.
[00229]          Figures 6M-6P illustrate an embodiment where device 100 distinguishes
between user inputs made within an application user interface based on a characteristic
intensity of the user input. Figure 6M illustrates display of a graphical user interface 502 for
a web browsing application on the electronic device. User interface 502 includes application
specific "back" button icon 614 for navigating to a previously displayed user interface (e.g., a
                                                    69

previous web page displayed on touch screen 112) within the application. Device 100 detects
a deep press including contact 612 having a characteristic intensity exceeding a
predetermined intensity threshold (e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) at a location on
touch screen 112 corresponding to display of "back" button icon 614. In response to detecting
the deep press, device 100 replaces display of web browsing user interface 502 on touch
screen 112 with user interface 506 for a user interface selection mode that includes user
interface representations 508, 618, and 622 of previously viewed web browsing interfaces
502, 616, and 620 (e.g., previously viewed web pages in a hierarchy of the browser history)
in Figure 6N.
[00230]         Alternatively, device 100 detects a swipe gesture (e.g., movement 632 of
contact 630) originating at the edge of touch screen 112 in Figure 6V. In response, device
100 navigates backwards in an application-specific user interface hierarchy (e.g., navigates
back to the last webpage viewed in the web browsing application) and replaces display of
user interface 502 in Figure 6V with user interface 616 in Figure 6P. In some embodiments,
device 100 applies a dynamic animation upon detection of the edge swipe, for example,
animating slide of user interface 502 off the screen, gradually revealing previously displayed
user interface 616, as if stacked below user interface 502. In some embodiments, the
animation is directly manipulated by the progress of the user swipe gesture. Thus, Figures
6V and 6P illustrate using an edge swipe gesture (e.g., including movement 632 of contact
630) to navigate back in an application-specific user interface hierarchy.
[00231]         Figure 60 also illustrates display of a graphical user interface 502 for a web
browsing application on the electronic device. User interface 502 includes application
specific "back" button icon 614 for navigating to a previously displayed user interface (e.g., a
previous web page displayed on touch screen 112) within the application. Device 100 detects
a tap gesture (rather than a deep press as illustrated in Figure 6M) including contact 624
having a characteristic intensity below a predetermined intensity threshold (e.g., deep press
intensity threshold (ITD)). In response to detecting the tap gesture, device 100 replaces
display of web browsing user interface 502 on touch screen 112 with web browsing user
interface 616 for a previously viewed user interface in the associated web browsing
application (e.g., the last web page visited in the web browsing application), as illustrated in
Figure 6P. Thus, in some embodiments, an electronic device distinguished between
application-specific user interface inputs based on a characteristic intensity of the user input.
                                                   70

[002321          Figures 6Q-6S illustrate that after toggling between a first user interface and a
second user interface through the user interface preview mode, as described for Figures 6A,
6E-6G, a user may quickly toggle back to the first user interface by repeating the user gesture
while the device displays the user interface for the second application.
[002331          Figure 6Q illustrates that after detecting lift off the user gesture that caused the
device to change the user interface display to second user interface 507 for a messaging
application, the device detects a second user input including contact 626 adjacent to the left
edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., on the bezel) with an intensity below a predetermined
threshold (e.g., below deep press intensity threshold (ITD); e.g., an exemplary predetermined
input). While detecting the input including contact 626, the device replaces display of
messaging user interface 507 on touch screen 112, with display of user interface selection
mode 506. As illustrated in Figure 6R, user selection mode 506 includes user interface
representation of the last two user interfaces displayed on touch screen 112, e.g.,
representation 508 of web browsing user interface 502 and representation 510 of messaging
user interface 507. However, the relative order of representation 508 and 510 in user interface
506 is switched, as compared to display of the user interface 506 in Figures 6E-6F, because
messaging user interface 507 is now the most recently displayed user interface on touch
screen 112, and is thus representation 510 of user interface 507 is displayed over
representation 508 of user interface 502 in Figure 6R.
[00234]          As illustrated in Figures 6Q and 6R, the intensity of contact 626 is maintained
below a deep press intensity threshold (ITD) (e.g., an exemplary predetermined intensity
threshold). However, electronic device detects movement 628 of contact 626 in a predefined
direction (e.g., laterally across touch screen 112) from location 626-a in Figure 6R. Device
100 then detects termination of the user input including contact 626 in Figure 6S. Because the
intensity of contact 626 was maintained below a deep press intensity threshold (ITD), and
because the user input included movement of contact 626 in a predefined direction on touch
screen 112 (e.g., laterally across the display), device 100 replaces display of user interface
506 with display of user interface 502 for a web browsing application, rather than reverting
back to messaging user interface 507, as illustrated in Figure 6Q. Thus, the user has toggled
back to the first user interface displayed on touch screen 112 in Figure 6A.
[00235]          Figures 6T-6U illustrate an embodiment where device 100 distinguishes
between user inputs made a first predefined location with user inputs made at a second
                                                    71

predefined location on device 112. Figure 6T illustrates display of a graphical user interface
502 for a web browsing application on the electronic device. Device 100 detects a deep press
including contact 628 having a characteristic intensity exceeding a predetermined intensity
threshold (e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) adjacent to the right edge of touch screen
 112 (e.g., on the bezel; a second predefined location). In response to detecting the deep press,
device 100 replaces display of web browsing user interface 502 on touch screen 112 with
web browsing user interface 616 for a previously displayed website on touch screen 112, as
illustrated in Figure 6U.
[00236]          This is in contrast with the detection of a deep press input in Figure 6H
adjacent to the left edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., on the bezel; at a first predefined location),
which caused device to enter a stable user interface selection mode. Thus, in some
embodiments, different operations are performed depending on whether an invoking gesture
is detected within a first predefined location or a second predefined location on the touch
sensitive surface.
[002371          Figures 7A-70 illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures are
used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 10A-10H,
 11 A-I E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H. Although some of the
examples which follow will be given with reference to inputs on a touch-screen display
(where the touch-sensitive surface and the display are combined), in some embodiments, the
device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface 451 that is separate from the display 450, as
shown in Figure 4B.
[00238]          Figures 7A-70 illustrate exemplary embodiments for navigating between
previously displayed user interfaces using a single touch gesture on a predefined area of a
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touch-sensitive display or touch-sensitive track pad separate
from the display) in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, a user
toggles between the two most recently viewed user interfaces using touch gestures of varying
intensities at one or more predefined areas on a touch-sensitive surface.
[00239]          Figures 7A-7F illustrate an embodiment where a user previews (e.g., "peeks"
at) a representation of a previously displayed user interface using a touch gesture with a first
characteristic intensity at a predefined area of a touch-sensitive surface, and then open the
user interface (e.g., opens the application) by increasing the intensity of the touch gesture to a
                                                    72

second characteristic intensity. Figure 7A illustrates display of a graphical user interface 502
for a web browsing application on the electronic device.
[00240]         Figure 7B illustrates detection of a touch gesture, including contact 702,
adjacent to the left edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., on the bezel; at a predefined position on
the touch-sensitive surface), with a first characteristic intensity (e.g., exceeding a light press
intensity threshold (ITL), but below a deep press intensity threshold (ITD)). In response to
detecting the touch gesture, device 100 enters a user interface selection mode, replacing
display of web browsing user interface 502 on touch screen 112 in Figure 7B with display of
user interface 506 for the user interface selection mode on touch screen 112 in Figure 7C.
[00241]         Figure 7C illustrates display of user interface 506 for the user interface
selection mode, including representation 508 of web browsing user interface 502 ("web
browsing card 508") and representation 510 of messaging user interface 507 ("messaging
card 510") of two user interfaces previously displayed on touch screen 112. In some
embodiments, the two representations are for the last two user interfaces displayed on the
device (e.g., the last two applications open on the display). In some embodiments, the two
representations are for the last two user interfaces displayed for the particular application
open on touch screen 112 at the time the user interface selection mode was initiated (e.g., the
last two web pages displayed in a web browser application or the last two messages displayed
in an email management application).
[00242]         As illustrated in Figure 7C, web browsing card 508 is displayed as if above
messaging card 510 in Z-orientation (e.g., positioned along a virtual axis substantially
orthogonal to the plane of the display), and laterally displaced to the right of messaging card
510, because it represents the last user interface displayed on touch screen 112 prior to
activation of the user interface selection mode. Device 100 also applies a level of blurring to
messaging card 510 (e.g., associated with its relative or absolute Z-position). In some
embodiments, the representation of the last user interface displayed prior to activation of the
user interface selection mode is displayed behind or equal with the second user interface
representation in relative Z-orientation.
[00243]         Figure 7D illustrates detection of increased intensity of contact 702 (e.g., from
an intensity just above a light press intensity threshold ITL in Figure 7C to an intensity just
below a deep press intensity threshold ITD in Figure 7D). In response to detection of the
increased intensity of contact 702, messaging card 510 increases in size and moves towards
                                                   73

the plane of the touch screen 112 in the virtual z-dimension (e.g., from location 510-a in
Figure 7C to location 510-b in Figure 7D). Messaging card 510 also begins to come into
focus (e.g., the level of blurring is reduced) as it moves up in the virtual z-dimension.
Concurrently, web browsing card 508 decreases in size and moves backwards in the virtual z
dimension (e.g., from location 508-a in Figure 7C to location 508-b in Figure 7D). In some
embodiments, an animation is displayed to show movement of the first user interface
representation and the second user interface representation in a manner that dynamically
responds to small changes in the intensity of the contact.
[00244]         Figure 7E illustrates detection further increased intensity of contact 702 (e.g.,
exceeding deep press intensity threshold (ITD)). In response to detection that the intensity of
contact 702 exceeds a second characteristic intensity (e.g., exceeding deep press intensity
threshold (ITD)), messaging card 510 continues to move up in the virtual z-dimension and
moves over web browsing card 508, which continues to move backwards in the virtual z
dimension and starts to become blurry.
[00245]         In some embodiments, in response to detecting an intensity of contact 702 in
excess of a second predetermined threshold (e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD)), the
device automatically opens the messaging application associated with user interface 507 (e.g.,
the card or associated application "pops"), and replaces display of the user interface selection
mode with user interface 507, as illustrated in Figure 7F.
[00246]         Figures 7G-7K illustrate an alternative embodiment for "peeking" and
"popping" previously displayed user interfaces (e.g., and associated applications), as
described for Figures 7A-7F. In this embodiment, the user interface representations are
displayed in a substantially two-dimensional view, rather than along a virtual z-axis.
[002471         Figure 7G illustrates detection of a touch gesture, including contact 704,
adjacent to the left edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., on the bezel; at a predefined position on
the touch-sensitive surface), with a first characteristic intensity (e.g., exceeding a light press
intensity threshold (ITL), but below a deep press intensity threshold (ITD)). In response to
detecting the touch gesture, device 100 enters a user interface selection mode, displaying user
interface 506 for the user interface selection mode on touch screen 112 in Figure 7G.
[00248]         Figure 7G illustrates display of user interface 506 for the user interface
selection mode, including representation 508 of web browsing user interface 502 ("web
browsing card 508") and representation 510 of messaging user interface 507 ("messaging
                                                    74

card 510") of two user interfaces previously displayed on touch screen 112. As illustrated in
Figure 7G, messaging card 510 is displayed as if right on top of web browsing card 508 in Z
orientation, and laterally displaced to the right of web browsing card 508, because it
represents the last user interface displayed on touch screen 112 prior to activation of the user
interface selection mode.
[00249]         Figure 7H illustrates detection of increased intensity of contact 704 (e.g., from
an intensity just above a light press intensity threshold ITL in Figure 7C to an intensity just
below a deep press intensity threshold ITD in Figure 7D). In response to detection of the
increased intensity of contact web browsing card 508 is further revealed from under
messaging card 508 by movement of messaging card 510 to the right of the screen, from
location 510-a in Figure 7G to location 510-b in Figure 7H.
[00250]         Figure 7E illustrates detection of a decrease in intensity of contact 704. In
response to detection that the intensity of contact 702 decreases, messaging card 510 begins
to slide back over web browsing card 508.
[00251]         Figure 7J illustrates detection of a further decrease in intensity of contact 704
below a first characteristic intensity (e.g., below light press intensity threshold (ITL)). In
response to falling below the first characteristic intensity, device 5100 exits user interface
selection mode and replaces display of user interface 506 with user interface 507 for the
messaging application which was displayed immediately preceding entry into the user
interface selection mode (e.g., because contact 704 failed to "pop" web browsing card 508
out from under messaging card 510, the device reverts into it last active state upon exiting the
user interface selection mode). Figure 7K further illustrates detection of lift off of contact
704, resulting in no change in the user interface displayed on touch screen 112.
[00252]         In contrast, Figures illustrate an embodiment where, after the user toggled user
interface from web browsing user interface 502 to messaging user interface 507 (e.g., as
described in Figures 5A-5F) the user starts the "peek" and "pop" processes again with
detection of contact 706 in the predetermined area on the touch sensitive surface (e.g., the left
side of the bezel) in Figure 7L. In response to detecting increasing intensity contact 706 from
Figure 7M to 7M, messaging card moves from location 51 0-d in Figure 7M to position 51 0-e
in Figure 7N. Detection of a further increase in the intensity of contact 706 in excess of the
second characteristic intensity (e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) in Figure 70 pops
web browsing application back open (e.g., the device replaces display of the user interface
                                                   75

506 for user interface selection mode with user interface 502 for web browsing application).
Thus, the user has toggled back to the originally displayed user interface.
[00253]          Figures 8A-8R illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures are
used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 10A-10H,
 11 A-I E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H. Although some of the
examples which follow will be given with reference to inputs on a touch-screen display
(where the touch-sensitive surface and the display are combined), in some embodiments, the
device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface 451 that is separate from the display 450, as
shown in Figure 4B.
[00254]          Figures 8A-8R illustrate exemplary embodiments for navigating between
multiple user interfaces represented in a user interface selection mode, including the ability to
"peek" at and "pop" applications (e.g., and associated user interfaces) from a display of
multiple user interface representations with user inputs detected on a touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., a touch-sensitive display or touch-sensitive track pad separate from the display) in
accordance with some embodiments.
[00255]          Figures 8A-8D illustrate an embodiment where a user "pops" (e.g., selects) a
user interface for display on the device with a high intensity user input (e.g., a deep press).
Figure 8A illustrates display of user interface 506 for a user interface selection mode,
including representation 508 of web browsing user interface 502 ("web browsing card 508"),
representation 510 of messaging user interface 507 ("messaging card 510"), and
representation 526 of photo management user interface 524 ("photo card 526") of user
interfaces that were previously displayed on the device. The user interface representations are
displayed in a stack of cards, extending to the right from the base of the stack. Each card is
ordered in a z-layer (e.g., substantially orthogonal to the plane of touch screen 112, and is
laterally offset to the right of the card below it, revealing a portion of each card.
[00256]          Device 100 detects an increase in the intensity of contact 802 at a location
corresponding to display of messaging card 510 from Figure 5A to Figure 5A. In response,
the displayed area of messaging card 510 increases (e.g., the user is peeking at messaging
card 510) by moving web browsing card 508 further to the right (e.g., from location 508-a in
Figure 8A to location 508-b in Figure 8B).
                                                     76

[002571          As illustrated in Figure 8C, display of the relative lateral positions of the cards
is dynamically linked to the amount of pressure detected for the user contact. For example, in
response to detecting a small decrease in the pressure of contact 802 from Figure 8B to
Figure 8C, web browsing card 508 starts to move back over messaging card 510 (e.g., web
browsing card 508 moves from position 508-b in Figure 8B to position 508-c in Figure 8C. In
some embodiments, an animation is displayed to show movement of the user interface
representations relative to one another in a manner that dynamically responds to small
changes in the intensity of a contact.
[00258]          Device 100 then detects a further increase in the pressure of contact 802,
exceeding a characteristic intensity (e.g., a deep press intensity threshold (ITD)). In response,
messaging card 510 is "popped" out of the stack and the device opens the associated
application (e.g., replaces display of user interface 506 for the user interface selection mode
with display of user interface 507 for the messaging application).
[00259]          Figures 8E-8F illustrate an embodiment where "popping" of the card (e.g.,
selection of an application and corresponding user interface) includes an animation. Figure
8E illustrates that messaging card is selected (e.g., "popped") in response to detecting an
increase in the pressure of contact 802, exceeding a characteristic intensity (e.g., a deep press
intensity threshold (ITD)). In response, device 100 displays an animation that transitions from
display of user interface 506 for the user interface selection mode to display of user interface
507 for the messaging application. The animation includes sliding web browsing card 508
completely off of messaging card 510 (e.g., by moving we browsing card further to the right
to position 508-d). The animation also includes lifting messaging card 510 out of the stack,
and gradually increasing the size of messaging card 510, e.g., until display of user interface
507 fills the entirety of touch screen 112 (e.g., as illustrated by movement of messaging card
from location 510-b in Figure 8E to location 510-c in Figure 8F to provide an effect that the
card is moving towards the user in a virtual z-dimension.
[00260]          Figures 8G-8H illustrate an alternate embodiment for "peeking" at a user
interface representation card. Figure 8G illustrates display of a stack of user interface cards,
as described for Figure 8A (e.g., where web browsing card 508 is displayed on top of, and
offset to the right of messaging card 510, which is displayed on top of and offset to the right
of photo card 526). Figure 8G also illustrates contact 804 at a location of touch screen 112
corresponding to display of messaging card 510.
                                                   77

[002611          Figure 8H illustrates that, in response to detecting an increase in the intensity
of contact 804 when displayed over messaging card 510, more area of messaging card is
revealed. However, rather than sliding web browsing card 508 off of messaging card 510 to
the right, Figure 8H illustrates that messaging card 510 is moved to the left (e.g., messaging
card moves from location 510-a in Figure 8G to location 510 in Figure 8H), as if being taken
out of the deck of cards. Thus, Figures 8G and 8H illustrate using the intensity of a contact
(e.g., 804) to reveal more of a user interface representation card in a stack by sliding the card
out the stack in a direction opposite the direction in which the stack spreads away from the
base of the stack.
[00262]          Figure 81 illustrates another alternate embodiment for "peeking" at messaging
card 510, where, in response to detecting an increase in the intensity of contact 804 displayed
at a location corresponding to display of messaging card 510, web browsing card 508 moves
off of messaging card 510 to the right, and messaging card 510 is pulled out of the deck to the
left. Thus, Figures 8G and 81 illustrate using the intensity of a contact (e.g., 804) to reveal
more of a respective user interface representation card in a stack by both sliding the card out
the stack in a direction opposite the direction in which the stack spreads away from the base
of the stack, and sliding at least the card displayed direction over the respective user interface
representation card further in the direction in which the stack spreads away from the base of
the stack.
[00263]          Figures 8J-8R illustrate extended "peek" and "pop" navigation, where multiple
cards are peeked at prior to popping open an application. Figure 8J illustrates display of a
graphical user interface 502 for a web browsing application on the electronic device. Figure
8K illustrates that the device enters a user interface selection mode upon detection of a user
input including contact 806 adjacent to the left edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., on the bezel)
with a characteristic intensity (e.g., an intensity exceeding deep press intensity threshold
(ITD); e.g., an exemplary predetermined input). In response to activating user interface
selection mode, device 100 replaces display of web browsing user interface 502 with user
interface 506 for the user interface selection mode, as illustrated in Figure 8K.
[00264]          Figure 8K illustrates display of a stack of user interface cards, as described for
Figure 8A (e.g., where web browsing card 508 is displayed on top of, and offset to the right
of messaging card 510, which is displayed on top of and offset to the right of photo card 526).
                                                    78

Figure 8K also illustrates contact 806 at a position 806-a corresponding to the left edge of
touch screen 112, and having an intensity exceeding deep press intensity threshold (ITD).
[00265]          As illustrated in Figure 8L, device 100 detects a decrease in the intensity of
user contact 806 below the deep press intensity threshold (ITD). Device 100 also detects
movement 808 of contact 806 from the left edge of the display (e.g., position 806-a in Figure
8K) to a location corresponding to display of messaging card 510.
[002661          Figure 8M illustrates detection of an increase in intensity of user contact 806
when displayed over messaging card 510, resulting in "peeking" of messaging card 510 via
movement of web browsing card away from messaging card 510.
[002671          Figure 8N illustrates detection of a decrease in the intensity of user contact
806. In response, web browsing card 508 moves back over messaging card 510. The device
also detects continuation of movement 808 of contact 806 from location 806-b in Figure 8N
to location 806-c in Figure 80, corresponding to display of photo card 526.
[00268]          Figure 8P illustrates detection of an increase in the intensity of contact 506
when displayed over photo card 526, and in response, peeking of photo card 526 by moving
display of web browsing card 508 and messaging card 510 to the right.
[00269]          Figure 8Q illustrates detection of a further increase in the intensity of contact
806 in excess of a predefined threshold intensity (e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD))
when displayed over photo card 526. In response, the contact "pops" photo card 526, as
illustrated by moving web browsing card 508 and messaging card 510 completely off of
photo card 526. Photo card 526 then expands (e.g., via a dynamic animation, to fill the
entirety of touch screen 112 with user interface 524, as electronic device enters the photo
management application in Figure 8R.
[002701          Figures 9A-9H illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating between
user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures are
used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 1OA-1OH,
11 A-I E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H. Although some of the
examples which follow will be given with reference to inputs on a touch-screen display
(where the touch-sensitive surface and the display are combined), in some embodiments, the
device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface 451 that is separate from the display 450, as
shown in Figure 4B.
                                                   79

[002711          Figure 9A illustrates display of user interface 506 for a user interface selection
mode, including display of a stack of user interface representations (e.g., user interface
representation cards 508, 510, and 526 for web browsing user interface 502, messaging user
interface 507, and image management user interface 524). As described for Figures 5A-5HH,
the user interface representation cards are spread out to the right from the base of the stack,
and are ordered in Z-positions relative to one another (e.g., representation 508 is laterally
offset to the right of representation 510 and is ordered above representation 510 along a Z
axis).
[00272]          Device 100 detects a user input including contact 902 at a position on touch
screen 112 that corresponds to display of user interface representation 526. Contact 902 has a
characteristic intensity below a predefined intensity threshold (e.g., below deep press
intensity threshold (ITD)). In response to detecting contact 902 at a position corresponding
with display of photo card 526, device 100 reveals more of photo card 526 by moving
messaging card 510 and web browsing card 508 to the right (e.g., away from photo card 526)
from locations 510-a and 508-a in Figure 9A to locations 510-b and 508-b in Figure 9B.
Device 100 then detects movement of contact 902 from over photo card 526 to over
messaging card 510 (e.g., from location 902-a in Figure 9B to location 902-b in Figure 9C).
[00273]          As illustrated in Figures 9C-9D, in response to contact 902 moving to a
location corresponding to display of messaging card 510, device 100 reveals more of
messaging card 510 by moving messaging card 510 out from under web browsing card 508
and back towards the stack (e.g., to the left on display 112) from location 510-b in Figure 9C
to location 510-c in Figure 9D.
[00274]          Figures 9E-9F illustrate an embodiment where an application is selected from
the user interface selection mode by lifting off a contact displayed at a location over a user
interface representation card associated with that application. Device 100 detects lift off of
contact 902 when positioned over messaging card 510 (e.g., termination of the user input
including contact 902 at a position corresponding to display of card 510 on touch screen 112),
selecting the messaging application associated with messaging card 510. In response, device
 100 replaces display of user interface 506 with display of user interface 507, corresponding to
user interface representation card 510. E.g., device 100 opens the messaging application
associated with user interface 507 because contact 902 was over the corresponding card when
the user lifted off the contact.
                                                   80

[002751         Figures 9G-9H illustrate an alternate embodiment where an application is
selected from the user interface selection mode by "popping" it with a deep press gesture.
Continuing from Figures 9A-9D, Device 100 detects an increase in the intensity of contact
902 in excess of a predefined intensity threshold (e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD))
when contact 902 is positioned over messaging card 510. In response, device 100 replaces
display of user interface 506 with display of user interface 507, corresponding to user
interface representation card 510. E.g., device 100 opens the messaging application
associated with user interface 507 because contact 902 was over the corresponding card when
the deep press was detected.
[00276]         Figures 22A-22BA illustrate exemplary user interfaces for performing
operations independent of an application (e.g., system-wide actions), such as navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, this
is achieved by a user interface that distinguishes at least two types of inputs originating from
the edge of the touch screen, and in response performs a system-wide operation when a first
type of input is detected and an application-specific application when the second type of input
is detected. In some embodiments, the two types of inputs are distinguished based on at least
their proximity to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface and a characteristic intensity of a
contact included in the input.
[002771         The user interfaces in these figures are used to illustrate the processes
described below, including the processes in Figures 1OA-1OH, 11 A-1 1E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D,
 14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H. Although some of the examples which follow will be
given with reference to inputs on a touch-screen display (where the touch-sensitive surface
and the display are combined), in some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch
sensitive surface 451 that is separate from the display 450, as shown in Figure 4B.
[00278]         Figures 22A-22D illustrate an embodiment where the device detects two
inputs meeting system-gesture intensity criteria and determines whether to perform an
application-specific action or a system-wide action based on the proximity of the input to the
edge of the touch screen, in accordance with some embodiments. Figure 22A illustrates a
web browsing user interface 502 having two location boundaries, 2202 and 2204. Location
boundary 2202 defines an area of touch screen 112 (e.g., which extends to the left off of the
touch screen) left of the boundary in which a contact must be detected in order to activate a
system-wide action (e.g., when the contact also meets an intensity criteria), such as entering a
                                                  81

user interface selection mode. Location boundary 2204 defines a larger area of touch screen
 112 (e.g., which extends to the left off of the touch screen) left of the boundary in which a
contact must be detected in order to activate a system-specific action (e.g., when the contact
also meets an intensity criteria), such as navigating to a previous user interface displayed
within the active application.
[002791         In Figure 22B, the device detects contact 2206 having a characteristic intensity
above a threshold intensity required for performance of the system-wide action (e.g., intensity
threshold ITL). Contact 2206 also satisfies system-wide action positional criteria because it is
detected to the left of boundary 2202. Thus, although the contact also satisfies application
specific action criteria, in response to detecting movement of the contact to the right, the
device enters a user interface selection mode, as indicated by replacement of web browsing
user interface 502 with multitasking user interface 506 in Figure 22C.
[00280]         In Figure 22D, the device detects contact 2212 having a characteristic intensity
above a threshold intensity required for performance of the system-wide action (e.g., intensity
threshold ITL) and the application-specific action. However, contact 2212 does not satisfy
system-wide action positional criteria because it is detected to the right of boundary 2202.
Because contact 2212 does satisfy application-specific positional criteria, in response to
detecting movement of the contact to the right, the device navigates to a previously viewed
user interface within the web browsing application, as indicated by replacement of web
browsing user interface 502 with web browsing user interface 616 in Figure 22E.
[00281]         Figures 22F-22G illustrate an embodiment where the device adjusts the
positional criteria required to perform a system-wide action in response to the shape of the
contact detected. In Figure 22F the device detects contact 2214 having a characteristic
intensity above a threshold intensity required for performance of the system-wide action (e.g.,
intensity threshold ITL). However, contact 2214 does not satisfy the default system-wide
action positional criteria because it is detected to the right of boundary 2202. However,
because the contact is wider and elongated (e.g., which indicative of the user stretching their
thumb to reach the left side of the device), as compared to a typical finger-tip contact, the
device adjusts the system-wide action positional criteria such that contacts detected left of
boundary 2204 satisfy the positional criteria. Thus, in response to detecting movement of the
contact to the right, the device enters a user interface selection mode, as indicated by
                                                    82

replacement of web browsing user interface 502 with multitasking user interface 506 in
Figure 22G.
[002821         Figures 22H-221 illustrate an embodiment where the device detects a contact
that meets system-wide action positional criteria, but not system-wide action intensity. In
Figure 22H the device detects contact 2218 satisfying the positional requirement for
performance of the system-wide action (e.g., because it was detected to the left of boundary
2202. However, contact 2218 has a characteristic intensity below a threshold intensity
required for performance of the system-wide action (e.g., intensity threshold ITL) criteria.
Because contact 2218 does satisfy application-specific intensity criteria, in response to
detecting movement of the contact to the right, the device navigates to a previously viewed
user interface within the web browsing application, as indicated by replacement of web
browsing user interface 502 with web browsing user interface 616 in Figure 221.
[00283]         Figures 22J-22N illustrate an embodiment where the boundary defining the
system-wide action positional criteria is located off of the left edge of touch screen 112.
Figure 22J illustrates a web browsing user interface 502 having location boundaries, 2222
and 2224 defining the right edge of positional requirements for performance of system-wide
and application-specific actions.
[00284]         In Figure 22K, the device detects contact 2226 having a characteristic intensity
above a threshold intensity required for performance of the system-wide action (e.g., intensity
threshold ITL). Because the device determines that the user's digit used to make contact 2226
must extend to the left, off of touch screen 112 (e.g., based on the shape and size of the
contact), the device projects (e.g., virtually) where the contact would extend to if the touch
screen was wider, as indicated by the dashed lines in Figure 22K. Because the farthest point
in the projected contact is left of positional boundary 2222, contact 2226 also satisfies
system-wide action positional criteria. Thus, in response to detecting movement of the
contact to the right, the device enters a user interface selection mode, as indicated by
replacement of web browsing user interface 502 with multitasking user interface 506 in
Figure 22L.
[00285]         In Figure 22M, the device detects contact 2230 having a characteristic
intensity above a threshold intensity required for performance of the system-wide action (e.g.,
intensity threshold ITL). The device then projects the left-most boundary of where contact
2230 would be located off of the edge of touch screen 112. Because the farthest point in the
                                                   83

projected contact is right of positional boundary 2222, contact 2226 does not satisfy system
wide action positional criteria. Because contact 2230 does satisfy application-specific
positional criteria, in response to detecting movement of the contact to the right, the device
navigates to a previously viewed user interface within the web browsing application, as
indicated by replacement of web browsing user interface 502 with web browsing user
interface 616 in Figure 22N.
[00286]          Figures 220-22R illustrate an embodiment where the device does not extend
the system-wide action positional boundary in response to detecting a larger contact, when
the contact is detected in the upper or lower corners of touch screen 112. Thus, when the
device detects a wider contact in Figure 22P that would satisfy the modified positional
criteria, the device performs the application-specific action, rather than the system-wide
action, as illustrated in Figure 22R.
[002871          Figures 22S-22AA illustrate an embodiment where the device modifies the
system-wide action positional boundaries when the contact is travelling faster on the touch
screen, to allow a further buffer for user's who are rushing the gesture. When the gesture
meets speed criteria and intensity criteria within buffer zone 250, the device still performs the
system-wide action, as illustrated in Figures 22S-22U. Where the gesture does not meet all
three criteria simultaneously, the device does not perform the system-wide action, as
illustrated in Figures 22V-22X and 22Y-22AA.
[00288]          Figures 22AB-22AG illustrate an embodiment where the gesture also includes
a directional criteria. When the gesture meets the directional criteria, as illustrated in Figures
22AB-22AD, the device performs the system-wide action. When the gesture does not meet
the direction criteria, as illustrated in Figures 22AE-22AG, the device does not perform the
system-wide action.
[00289]          Figures 22AH-22AO illustrate an embodiment where the system-wide action
is still performed when the device first detects the input outside of the position boundary, but
the contact is moved into the position boundary and then the intensity criteria is met, as
illustrated in Figures 22AH-22AK, but not in Figures 22AL-22AO.
[00290]          Figures 22AP-22AS illustrate an embodiment where the device locks out the
system-wide action if the input is ever detected at a location outside of buffer zone 2286.
                                                    84

[002911          Figures 22AT-22AY illustrate an embodiment where the system-wide action
intensity criteria is higher during a time period immediately following detection of the
contact on the screen. Where the contact moves outside of the activation zone prior to
achieving the higher intensity requirement, the device does not perform the system-wide
action, as illustrated in Figures 22AT-22AU. Where the contact achieves the higher intensity
requirement, or waits for the intensity threshold to drop, prior to moving outside of the
activation zone, the device performs the system-wide action, as illustrated in Figures 22AW
22AY.
[00292]          Figures 22AZ-22BA illustrate an embodiment where the system-wide action
intensity criteria is higher near the top and bottom the of touch screen.
[00293]          Figures 23A-23AT illustrate exemplary user interfaces for performing
operations independent of an application (e.g., system-wide actions), such as navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, this
is achieved by distinguishing how far a contact meeting activation criteria (e.g., as described
with respect to method 2400 and Figures 22A-22BA above) travels across the touch screen.
[00294]          The user interfaces in these figures are used to illustrate the processes
described below, including the processes in Figures 10A-10H, 11 A-1 1E, 12A-12E, 13A-13D,
14A-14C, 15, 24A-24F, and 25A-25H. Although some of the examples which follow will be
given with reference to inputs on a touch-screen display (where the touch-sensitive surface
and the display are combined), in some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch
sensitive surface 451 that is separate from the display 450, as shown in Figure 4B.
[00295]          Figure 23A illustrates a web browsing user interface 502 with positional
boundaries 2302 and 2312. When a contact meeting system-wide action activation criteria
does not cross boundary 2302, the device does not navigate to a new user interface upon
termination of the input, as illustrated in Figures 23B-23D. When a contact meeting system
wide action activation criteria crosses boundary 2302, but not boundary 2312, the device
navigates to a user interface selection mode, as illustrated in Figures 23E-23G. When a
contact meeting system-wide action activation criteria crosses boundary 2302 and boundary
2312, the device navigates to the last user interface active on the device, as illustrated in
Figures 231-23K.
[00296]          Figures 23L-23R illustrate an embodiment where the device provides visual
feedback as the user approaches and crosses over positional boundaries 2302 and 2312. The
                                                   85

feedback is dynamic and is reversed when the contact moves in the opposite direction on the
touch screen.
[002971          Figures 23Q-23T illustrate an embodiment where the device provides a hint
that the intensity of a contact is approaching the intensity threshold required to activate the
system-wide action. For example, as the intensity of contact 2326 approaches intensity
threshold ITL, the device starts to slide active user interface 502 over to the right, revealing
previously active user interface 507. In response to detecting further increase in the intensity
of contact 2326 above intensity threshold 2326 in Figure 23S, the device activates the
system-wide action, allowing navigation between user interfaces (e.g., by sliding the contact
into one of the three zones to the right. In response to detecting even further increase in the
intensity of contact 2326 above deep press intensity threshold ITD in Figure 23T, the device
enters multitasking user interface selection mode, as indicated by replacement of web
browsing user interface 502 with multitasking user interface 506 in Figure 23Y.
[002981          Figures 10A-10H illustrate a flow diagram of a method 1000 of navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 1000 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
display is a touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the
display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In
some embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control
device that is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 1000
are performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or
streaming (e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication
with a remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California). Some operations in method 1000 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of
some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00299]          As described below, the method 1000 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the number, extent, and/or nature of the inputs
from a user when navigating between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient
human-machine interface. For battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate
between user interfaces faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time
between battery charges.
                                                   86

[003001          In some embodiments, the device displays (1002) a first user interface on the
display. For example, a user interface of an open application (e.g., user interface 502 for a
web browsing application in Figures 5A-5B, 6A-6B, 6D, 6M, 60, 6S-6T, 7A-7B, and 70,
user interface 616 for a web browsing application in Figure 6P and 6U, user interface 507 for
a messaging application in Figures 5CC, 6Q, 7F, 7J-7L, 8D, 8J, 9F, and 9H, or user interface
526 for image management application in Figure 8R). The first user interface corresponds to
a first user interface representation in a plurality of user interface representations. For
example, as described further below, the user interface representations correspond to, in
certain embodiments, user interfaces of open applications, current and previously viewed user
interfaces of a single application (e.g., open user interfaces for a web browsing application,
each displaying a same or different website, or a history of previously viewed user interfaces
for a web browsing application-e.g., corresponding to at least a partial browser history),
messages in an e-mail chain, menu options in a menu hierarchy (e.g., a selection of files, such
as audio and/or visual files for playback or streaming), etc.
[00301]          While displaying the first user interface, the device detects (1004) a
predetermined input. For example, a double-tap or double press on the "home" button on the
device; or, for an electronic device that includes one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with a touch-sensitive display, a deep press on a predetermined area of the first user
interface (e.g., an upper left corner); a deep press with the flat portion of a thumb anywhere
on the first user interface; or a deep press on a predetermined area of the device, such as on
the left edge of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touch-sensitive display or touch-sensitive
track pad separate from the display), in a predefined area adjacent to an edge (e.g., the left
edge) of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive display). For example, a deep press
on the bezel or a predetermined area of the bezel, such as the bezel adjacent to the left edge of
the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., deep press 504 in Figure 504, 608 in Figure 6H, 612 in
Figure 6M, and 806 in Figure 8K).
[00302]          In response (1005) to detecting the predetermined input: the device enters
(1006) a user interface selection mode, and displays (1008) a plurality of user interface
representations in a stack with at least a portion of a first user interface representation visible
and at least a portion of a second user interface representation visible. For example, in
response to detecting deep press 504 in Figure 5B, multifunction device 100 displays user
interface representations 508 (corresponding to user interface 502 of a web browsing
                                                    87

application, which was displayed on the screen when the initiating input was detected) and
510 (corresponding to user interface 507 of a messaging application) in Figures 5C and 5D.
[00303]         In some embodiments, a representation of the user interface that was displayed
on the screen immediately preceding entry into the user interface selection mode is displayed
on the top of the stack, or as the first representation corresponding to an open application
(e.g., when one or more representations of a home screen or transient application is also
displayed upon entry of the user interface selection mode. For example, in Figure 5C, user
interface representation 508 (corresponding to user interface 502, which was displayed at the
time deep press 504 was detected) is displayed above user interface representation 507 in the
stack.
[00304]         In some embodiments, a representation of the user interface that was displayed
on the screen immediately preceding entry into the user interface selection mode is displayed
below at least a second user interface representation (e.g., a representation for the user
interface that was displayed immediately preceding display of the user interface that was
displayed when the user interface selection mode was initiated). For example, in Figure 5D,
user interface representation 508 (corresponding to user interface 502, which was displayed
at the time deep press 504 was detected) is displayed below user interface representation 507
in the stack.
[00305]         In some embodiments, the device displays a second user interface on the
display, where the second user interface corresponds to the second user interface
representation of the plurality of user interface presentations (e.g., the representation of the
user interface displayed when the user interface selection mode was initiated is displayed as
the second representation in the stack, as illustrated in Figure 5D). While displaying the
second user interface, the device detects a predetermined input. In response to detecting the
predetermined input: the device enters the user interface selection mode and displays the
stack with at least a portion of the first user interface representation visible and at least a
portion of the second user interface representation visible.
[00306]            In some embodiments, in response to detecting the predetermined input for
entering the user interface selection mode, at least a portion of a third user interface
representation is visibly displayed. For example, in response to detecting deep press 504 in
Figure 5B, multifunction device 100 displays user interface representations 508, 510, and 526
                                                    88

(corresponding to user interface 524 of an image management application) in Figures 5E and
5F.
[003071         In some embodiments, the rest of the representations in the stack are either
off-screen or are beneath the first, second, and optional third representations, which include
visible information. For example, Figure 5E illustrates indication 503 (e.g., an image of
representation edges or actual edges of additional user interface representations) beneath third
user interface representation 526 in Figures 5E and 5F.
[00308]         In some embodiments, in response (1005) to detecting the predetermined
input: the device ceases to display (1010) a status bar on the display. The status bar is
displayed concurrently with a respective user interface prior to entering the user interface
selection mode and displaying the stack. For example, status bar 503 is displayed on user
interface 502 in Figure 5A prior to the device entering the user interface selection mode.
Upon detecting deep press 504 in Figure 5B, the device enters the user interface selection
mode (e.g., as indicated by display of the stack in Figure 5E), which does not include display
of status bar 503 in corresponding user interface 506, as illustrated in Figure 5E. In some
embodiments, as illustrated in Figure 5C, the user interface for the user interface selection
mode (e.g., user interface 506) includes display of a status bar (e.g., status bar 503).
[00309]         In some embodiments, the status bar includes the current time, battery level,
cellular signal strength indicator, WiFi signal strength indicator, etc. The status bar is usually
displayed at all times with the user interface of an open application. In some embodiments,
removal of the status bar provides an indication to a user that the stack in the user interface
selection mode is not a regular user interface of an application, but a system user interface
configured for navigation, selection, and management (e.g., closing) of the open applications
on the device. In some embodiments, haptic feedback is provided when the user interface
selection mode is entered.
[00310]         Method 1000 includes that the device (e.g., multifunction device 100) displays
(1012) a plurality of user interface representations in a stack on the display. In some
embodiments, the plurality of user interface representations resemble a stack of cards (or
other objects) in a z-layer order (e.g., positioned relative to each other along a z-axis
substantially orthogonal to the plane of the display on the device to provide the effect that the
cards are stacked one on top of another) that represent user interfaces of open applications,
cards that represent current and previously viewed user interfaces of a single application,
                                                   89

cards that represent messages in an e-mail chain, cards that represent different menu options
in a menu hierarchy, etc. For example, Figures 5E and 5F illustrate a stack including
representations 508, 510, and 526 of user interfaces of open applications. Representation 508
is displayed as the top card, representation 510 as the middle card, and representation 526 as
the bottom card in a z-layer order. In some embodiments, the stack is displayed as a
substantially two-dimensional representation (although still with a z-layer order of cards in
some embodiments), for example, as illustrated in Figure 5E. In some embodiments, the stack
is displayed as a substantially three-dimensional representation, for example, as illustrated in
Figure 5F.
[00311]         At least a first user interface representation (e.g., a card representing the
application that was being displayed immediately prior to displaying the stack in a user
interface selection mode, such as a mode for selecting among open applications, a mode for
selecting among user interfaces in a single open application, or a mode for selecting from
among menu items in a menu (e.g., a menu in a menu hierarchy for a set-top box, etc.)) and a
second user interface representation (e.g., a card representing another open application, a
transient application, or a home screen or application springboard) disposed above the first
user interface representation in the stack are visible on the display. For example, first user
interface representation 510 is displayed as below second user interface representation 508 in
Figures 5E-5F.
[00312]          The second user interface representation is offset from the first user interface
representation in a first direction (e.g., laterally offset to the right on the display). For
example, second user interface 508 is offset to the right of the center of first user interface
representation 510 in Figure 5E-5F.
[00313]          The second user interface representation partially exposes the first user
interface representation. In some embodiments, representations in the stack are partially
spread out in one direction on the display (e.g., to the right, as shown in Figures 5E-5F). In
some embodiments, at a given time, information (e.g., an icon, title, and content for the
corresponding user interface) for a predetermined number of the representations (e.g., 2, 3, 4,
or 5 representations) in the stack is visible, while the rest of the representations in the stack
are either off-screen or are beneath the representations that include visible information. In
some embodiments, the representations that are beneath the representations that include
visible information are stacked together so closely that no information is displayed for these
                                                     90

representations. In some embodiments, the representations that are beneath the
representations that include visible information are stylistic representations, such as just
generic edges 503 of these representations, as shown in Figures 5E-5F.
[00314]          In some embodiments, a respective user interface representation has a
corresponding position in the stack (1014). For example, user interface representation 508 has
a corresponding first position in the stack, user interface representation 510 has a
corresponding second position in the stack, and user interface representation 526 has a
corresponding third position in the stack, as illustrated in Figure 5P.
[00315]          In some embodiments, for a respective user interface representation that is
visible on the display: the device determines (1016) a respective relative z-position of the
user interface representation as compared to one or more other user interface representations
that are concurrently visible on the display; and applies (1018) a level of blurring to the user
interface representation in accordance with the relative z-position (e.g., relative height in the
z-dimension, or relative z-layer level in the stack) of the user interface representation as
compared to the one or more other user interface representations that are concurrently visible
on the display.
[00316]          For example, in some embodiments, upon entering an application selection
mode, the stack of user interface representations represent a stack of open applications, the
lower lying user interface representations correspond to open applications that have not been
viewed for longer periods of time, and more blurring is applied to the user interface
representations for those applications than to the user interface representations of the more
recently viewed open applications. In some embodiments, the user interface representation
for the most recently viewed application is not blurred; the user interface representation for
the next most recently viewed application is blurred by a first amount; user interface
representations for still earlier open applications are blurred by a second amount that is
greater than the first amount; and so on. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5P, device 100
applies little or no blurring to user interface representation 508 because the card has a first
relative z-position on top of the cards concurrently visible on touch screen 112. Device 100
applies moderate blurring to user interface representation 510 because the card has a second
relative z-position in the middle of the cards concurrently visible on touch screen 112. Device
 100 applies substantial blurring to user interface representation 526 because the card has a
third relative z-position at the bottom of the cards concurrently visible on touch screen 112.
                                                    91

[003171          In some embodiments, a respective user interface representation has a
corresponding simulated absolute z-position in the stack. For a user interface representation
that is visible on the display, the device applies (1020) a level of blurring to the user interface
representation in accordance with the corresponding simulated absolute z-position of the user
interface representation in a z-dimension.
[00318]          For example, in some embodiments, the z-dimension is the dimension that is
perpendicular (e.g., substantially orthogonal) to the plane of the display, or the lateral
directions of the space represented on the display. In some embodiments, the level of blurring
applied to each of the user interface representations visible on the display is determined based
on the simulated absolute z-position of the user interface representation. In some
embodiments, the variation in the level of blurring applied to each user interface
representation is gradual and directly correlated to the current simulated absolute z-position
of the user interface representation. In some embodiments, the stack of user interface
representations move on a concave down increasing x-z curve in the x-direction, and the gap
between each pair of adjacent user interface representations in the z-direction is maintained at
a constant value during the movement of the user interface representations along the x-z
curve in the x-direction.
[00319]          In some embodiments, a respective user interface representation is associated
with a respective title area (e.g., a title bar, such as title bar 512 associated with user interface
representation 508 in Figure 5C and title bar 520 associated with user interface representation
510 in Figure 5D) with respective title content (e.g., the title area includes an icon (e.g., icon
516 in Figure 5C and icon 518 in Figure 5D) and a name of the application (or web page,
menu, etc., such as "Safari" 514 in Figure 5C and "Messages" 520 in Figure 5D) represented
by the user interface representation). In some embodiments, for a user interface
representation currently visible below an adjacent user interface representation on the display,
the device applies (1022) a visual effect (e.g., blurring, fading, and/or clipping, as shown in
Figure 5DD) to at least a first portion (e.g., only the title text portion of the title content, e.g.,
fading of "Photo" 532 in Figure 5DD, or both the title text and the icon in the title content,
e.g., fading of both "Photo" 532 and icon 528 in Figure 5DD) of the title content of the user
interface representation as the adjacent user interface representation approaches (e.g., as user
interface representation 510 slides over user interface representation 526 in Figure 5DD).
                                                     92

[003201          In some embodiments, the device applies (1024) the visual effect to title text
in the title content while maintaining an original appearance of an icon in the title content, as
the title area of an adjacent user interface representation or the adjacent user interface
representation moves within a threshold lateral distance on the display of the title content. For
example, "Photo" 532 fades away in Figure 5DD as user interface representation 510 moves
to location 510-b, near "Photo" 532, prior to icon 526 fading away).
[00321]          In some embodiments, the stack includes (1026) user interface representations
for a home screen (e.g., representations of any of one or more user interfaces accessible
immediately after the startup of the device, such as a notification center, a search UI, or a
springboard or dashboard showing applications available on the device, such as
representation 554 of user interface 552 of a home screen in Figure 5Q), zero or more
transient application user interface representations (e.g., representations of a user interface for
an incoming or ongoing telephone or IP call session (e.g., user interface representation 554 of
user interface 556 for an incoming telephone call in Figure 5W), a user interface showing a
handoff of one or more application sessions from a different device, a user interface for
recommending an application, a user interface for a printing session, etc.), and one or more
open application user interface representations (e.g., representations of the current application
being viewed just before entering the user interface selection mode, the prior application
before the current application, and other earlier open applications, (e.g., user interface
representations 508, 510, and 526 in Figures 5E-5F).
[00322]          As used in the specification and claims, the term "open application" refers to a
software application with retained state information (e.g., as part of device/global internal
state 157 and/or application internal state 192). An open application is any one of the
following types of applications:
"    an active application, which is currently displayed on display 112 (or a corresponding
     application view is currently displayed on the display);
*    a background application (or background process), which is not currently displayed on
     display 112, but one or more application processes (e.g., instructions) for the
     corresponding application are being processed by one or more processors 120 (i.e.,
    running);
                                                   93

*    a suspended application, which is not currently running, and the application is stored in a
    volatile memory (e.g., DRAM, SRAM, DDR RAM, or other volatile random access solid
     state memory device of memory 102); and
"    a hibernated application, which is not running, and the application is stored in a non
    volatile memory (e.g., one or more magnetic disk storage devices, optical disk storage
     devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage devices of
    memory 102).
[00323]          As used herein, the term "closed application" refers to software applications
without retained state information (e.g., state information for closed applications is not stored
in a memory of the device). Accordingly, closing an application includes stopping and/or
removing application processes for the application and removing state information for the
application from the memory of the device. Generally, opening a second application while in
a first application does not close the first application. When the second application is
displayed and the first application ceases to be displayed, the first application, which was an
active application when displayed, may become a background application, suspended
application, or hibernated application, but the first application remains an open application
while its state information is retained by the device.
[00324]          In some embodiments, in z-layer order, the user interface representations for a
home screen are displayed above the transient application user interface representations,
which in turn are displayed above the open application user interface representations. As used
herein, a "z-layer order" is the front-to-back order of displayed objects (e.g., user interface
representations). Thus, if two objects overlap, the object that is higher in the layer order (e.g.,
the object that is "on top of," "in front of," or "above") is displayed at any points where the
two objects overlap, thereby partially obscuring the object that is lower in the layer order
(e.g., the object that is "beneath," "behind," or "in back of' the other object). The "z-layer
order" is sometimes also called the "layer order," "z order," or "front-to-back object order."
[00325]          In some embodiments, the transient application user interface representations
include (1028) a telephony interface representation for an active call or a missed call, a
continuity interface representation for a suggested application, a continuity interface
representation for a hand-off from another device, and a printer interface representation for an
active print job.
                                                    94

[003261          Method 1000 also includes that the device detects (1030) a first drag gesture
by a first contact at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a location of
the first user interface representation on the display (e.g., device 100 detects a drag gesture
including contact 530 and movement 532 on touch screen 112 at a location corresponding to
display of user interface representation 510 in Figure 5G), the first contact moving across the
touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the first direction on the display
(e.g., movement 532 of contact 530 moves across touch screen 112 from left to right in
Figures 5G-51).
[003271          While the first contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to the location of the first user interface representation on the display and
moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the first direction
on the display (1032): the device moves (1034) the first user interface representation (e.g.,
user interface representation 510 in Figures 5G and 5R) in the first direction on the display at
a first speed in accordance with a speed of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface. For
example, on a touch-sensitive display (e.g., touch screen 112), the card or other
representation under the finger contact moves with the same speed as the finger contact (e.g.,
user interface representation 510 moves with the same speed as contact 530 in Figures 5G-51,
and user interface representation 510 moves with the same speed as contact 556 in Figures
5R-5, as illustrated by the constant positional relationship between the display of the user
interface representation and the contact on touch screen 112). On a display coupled to a track
pad, the card or other representation at the location corresponding to the location of the
contact moves at an onscreen speed that corresponds to (or is based on) the speed of the
finger contact on the track pad. In some embodiments, a focus selector is shown on the
display to indicate the onscreen location that corresponds to the location of the contact on the
touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the focus selector may be represented by a
cursor, a movable icon, or visual differentiators that separates an onscreen object (e.g., a user
interface representation) from its peers that do not have the focus.
[00328]          While the first contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to the location of the first user interface representation on the display and
moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the first direction
on the display (1032): the device also moves (1036) the second user interface representation
(e.g., user interface representation 508 in Figures 5G and 5R), disposed above the first user
interface representation, in the first direction at a second speed greater than the first speed.
                                                    95

[003291          In some embodiments, the first direction is rightward. In some embodiments,
the first speed is the same speed as the current speed of the contact. In some embodiments,
this movement of the first user interface representation creates a visual effect that the finger
contact is grabbing and dragging the first user interface representation. At the same time, the
second user interface representation is moving faster than the first user interface
representation. This faster movement of the second user interface representation creates the
visual effect that as the second user interface representation moves in the first direction
towards the edge of the display, an increasingly larger portion of the first user interface
representation is revealed from underneath the second user interface representation. For
example, as second user interface representation 508 moves towards the right on the display
with greater speed than does first user interface representation 510, more of user interface
representation 510 is revealed when displayed at location 510-b than when displayed at
location 510-a, prior to the movement to the right, as illustrated in Figures 5G-5H. In
combination, these two concurrent movements enable a user to see more of the first user
interface representation before deciding whether to select and display the corresponding first
user interface.
[00330]          In some embodiments, the stack includes at least a third user interface
representation disposed below the first user interface representation (e.g., user interface
representation 526 in Figures 5E-5F). The first user interface representation is offset from the
third user interface representation in the first direction (e.g., user interface 510 is offset to the
right of user interface representation 526 in Figures 5E-5F). The first user interface
representation partially exposes the third user interface representation. While the first contact
is at a location on the touch-sensitive interface that corresponds to the first user interface
representation on the display and the first contact is moving across the touch-sensitive surface
in a direction that corresponds to the first direction on the display: the device moves (1038)
the third user interface representation, disposed below the first user interface representation,
in the first direction at a third speed less than the first speed.
[00331]          For example, the third user interface representation, below the first user
interface representation (e.g., the card under the finger contact), moves at a slower speed than
the first user interface representation, such that more of the third user interface representation
is exposed as the finger contact moves across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that
corresponds to the first direction on the display. For example, Figure 50 illustrates
representative speeds of user interface representations 508 (e.g., second user interface
                                                    96

representation), 510 (e.g., first user interface representation), and 526 (e.g., third user
interface representation) relative to movement 532 of contact 530 in Figures 5G-51.
[00332]          In some embodiments, at the same time, one or more user interface
representations below the third user interface representation are revealed as the third user
interface representation moves in the first direction (e.g., to the right). For example, user
interface representations 534 and 540 are revealed as third user interface representation 526
moves to the right in response to detection of a user input including contact 530 and
movement 532, as shown in Figures 5H-51).
[00333]          In some embodiments, a difference between the second speed and the first
speed maintains (1040) a first constant z-position difference between the second user
interface representation and the first user interface representation. A difference between the
first speed and the third speed maintains a second constant z-position difference between the
first user interface representation and the third user interface representation. The first constant
z-position difference is the same as the second z-position difference. In some embodiments,
the cards travel on a concave down increasing x-z curve, where the z-spacing between
adjacent cards is maintained as the cards move to along the x-direction. Because the slope of
the curve decreases with increasing x positions, the cards move at higher and higher speeds in
the x-direction as their current x-positions increase.
[00334]          In some embodiments, a difference between the second speed and the first
speed is equal to a difference between the first speed and the third speed (1042).
[00335]          In some embodiments, a ratio between the second speed and the first speed is
equal to a ratio between the first speed and the third speed (1044).
[00336]          In some embodiments, while moving the third user interface representation
disposed below the first user interface representation at the third speed (1046) in the first
direction (e.g., moving user interface representation 526 to the right on touch screen 112 at a
relative speed less than the speed user interface 510 is travelling to the right (e.g., as
illustrated in Figure 50) in Figures 5G-5I): the device reveals (1048) an increasingly larger
portion of a fourth user interface representation disposed below the third user interface
representation in the stack on the display (e.g., user interface 534 is gradually revealed from
behind user interface representation 526 in Figures 5G-5I).
                                                    97

[003371          In some embodiments, the device then moves (1050) the fourth user interface
representation disposed below the third user interface representation at a fourth speed that is
less than the third speed in the first direction. In some embodiments, one or more user
interface representations disposed below the fourth user interface representation in the stack
are revealed (e.g., user interface representation 540, as in Figures 5I and 5T) in this manner
too, as the higher-up user interface representations move in the first direction.
[003381          In some embodiments, after detecting the first drag gesture (e.g., drag gesture
including contact 530 and movement 532 in Figures 5G-5I), the device detects (1052) a
second drag gesture by a second contact on the touch-sensitive surface at a location that
corresponds to the first user interface representation on the display, the second contact
moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to a second
direction on the display (e.g., leftward) opposite to the first direction on the display (e.g.,
rightward). For example, device 100 detects drag gesture including contact 546 and
movement 548 originating from a location on the display corresponding to user interface
representation 510, and proceeding to the left, in Figures 5L-5N.
[00339]          In some embodiments, the second contact is the same as the first contact and
the second drag gesture follows the first drag gesture, without an intervening lift off of the
first contact. In some embodiments, the first contact lifts off after the first drag gesture and
second drag gesture is made with a second contact after the second contact touches down on
the touch-sensitive surface, as illustrated in the series of Figures 5J; 5L-5N.
[00340]          While the second contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds the first user interface representation on the display and the second contact is
moving (1054) across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the second
direction on the display opposite the first direction on the display: the device moves (1056)
the first user interface representation (e.g., user interface representation 510 in Figures 5L
5N) in the second direction at a new first speed on the display in accordance with a speed of
the second contact on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., on a touch-sensitive display, the card
or other representation under the finger contact moves with the same speed as the finger
contact). The device also moves (1058) the second user interface representation (e.g., user
interface representation 508 in Figures 5L-5N), disposed above the first user interface
representation, in the second direction at a new second speed greater than the new first speed.
The device also moves (560) the third user interface representation (e.g., user interface
                                                    98

representation 526 in Figures 5L-5N), disposed below the first user interface representation,
in the second direction at a new third speed less than the new first speed.
[00341]         In some embodiments, while moving the second user interface representation
in the second direction faster than moving the first user interface representation in the second
direction, the device detects (1062) that the second user interface representation has moved in
between the first user interface representation and a location on the display that corresponds
to a location of the second contact on the touch-sensitive surface. For example, on a touch
sensitive display, detecting that a portion of the second contact or a representative point of the
second contact (e.g., a centroid) is touching the second user interface representation, instead
of touching the first user interface representation (e.g., the centroid of contact 546 is touching
user interface representation 508, rather than user interface representation 510, at location
546-f in Figure 5N).
[00342]         In response to detecting that the second user interface representation has
moved in between the first user interface and a location on the display that corresponds to the
location of the second contact on the touch-sensitive surface (1064): the device moves (1068)
the second user interface representation in the second direction at a modified second speed in
accordance with a current speed of the second contact. E.g., on a touch-sensitive display, the
second user interface representation (e.g., user interface representation 508 in Figure 5N) has
caught up with the finger movement, and starts to move at the same speed as the second
finger contact, instead of having the first user interface representation move at the same speed
as the second finger contact in the second drag gesture (e.g., as illustrated by the change of
the speed of user interface representation 508, along speed curve 550, upon reaching location
508-f in Figure 50).
[00343]         The device also moves (1070) the first user interface representation (e.g., user
interface representation 510), disposed below the second user interface representation, in the
second direction at a modified first speed less than the modified second speed. In some
embodiments, on a touch-sensitive display, once the second user interface representation
becomes the representation underneath the finger contact, the first user interface
representation moves at a speed that is a slower than the speed of the second user interface
representation (e.g., at a speed a fixed amount or a proportional amount below the speed of
the second user interface representation, as illustrated on speed curve 550 in Figure 50).
                                                   99

[003441          In some embodiments, the device also moves (1072) the third user interface
representation (e.g., user interface representation 526 in Figure 5N), disposed below the first
user interface representation, in the second direction at a modified third speed less than the
modified first speed (e.g., as illustrated on speed curve 550 in Figure 50).
[00345]          In some embodiments, a difference between the modified second speed and
the modified first speed maintains (1074) a first constant z-position difference between the
second user interface representation and the first user interface representation, while a
difference between the modified first speed and the modified third speed maintains a second
constant z-position difference between the first user interface representation and the third user
interface representation, where the first constant z-position difference is the same as the
second z-position difference.
[00346]          In some embodiments, a difference between the modified second speed and
the modified first speed is equal to a difference between the modified first speed and the
modified third speed (1076).
[003471          In some embodiments, a ratio between the modified second speed and the
modified first speed is equal to a ratio between the modified first speed and the modified third
speed (1078).
[00348]          In some embodiments, while displaying, in the stack, at least the first user
interface representation and the second user interface representation above the first user
interface representation, the device detects (1080) activation of a transient application at the
device. For example, while displaying user interface representations 508, 510, 526, and 534,
device 100 detects an incoming phone call, activating a telephony application, as illustrated
in Figures 5U-5V.
[00349]          In response to detecting activation of the transient application, the device
inserts (1082) a user interface representation for the transient application in the stack between
the first user interface representation and the second user interface representation. For
example, user interface representation 554 of user interface 556 corresponding to a telephony
application is inserted between user interface representations 510 and 526 in Figures 5U-5W.
In some embodiments, to make room for the user interface representation of the transient
application on the display, the second user interface representation is moved to the right, and
the user interface representation of the transient application takes the former place of the
second user interface representation (e.g., user interface representations 510 and 508 move to
                                                   100

the right to make space for insertion of user representation 554 into the stack in Figures 5V
5W).
[00350]          In some embodiments, while displaying, in the stack, at least the first user
interface representation and the second user interface representation above the first user
interface representation, the device detects (1084) a deletion input directed to the first user
interface representation (e.g., an upward drag gesture at a location on the touch-sensitive
surface that corresponds to a location on the first user interface representation). For example,
device 100 detects the drag gesture including contact 560 and movement 562 at a location on
touch screen 112 corresponding to display of user interface representation 510 in Figure 5X.
[00351]          In response to detecting the deletion input directed to the first user interface
representation (1086): the device removes (1088) the first user interface representation from a
first position in the stack (e.g., user interface 510 is removed from the stack in Figures 5X
5Z. The device also moves (1090) a respective user interface representation disposed
immediately below the first user interface representation into the first position in the stack
(e.g., user interface representation 526 is moved up in the stack to take the position vacated
by user interface representation 510 in Figures 5Z-5AA). In some embodiments, the
application corresponding to the first user interface representation is closed in response to
detecting the deletion input directed to the first user interface representation.
[00352]          In some embodiments, after detecting termination of the first drag gesture, the
device displays (1091) at least two of the user interface representations in the stack on the
display (e.g., user interface representations 508, 510, and 526 in Figure 5BB). While
displaying at least two of the plurality of user interface representations in the stack, the device
detects (1092) a selection input (e.g., a tap gesture at a location on the touch-sensitive surface
that corresponds to a location on a user interface representation) directed to one of the at least
two user interface representations in the stack. For example, device 100 detects the tap
gesture including contact 564 at a location on touch screen 112 corresponding to display of
user interface representation 510 in Figure 5BB.
[00353]          In response to detecting the selection input (1093): the device ceases to display
(1094) the stack, and displays (1095) a user interface that corresponds to the selected one of
the at least two user interface representations. In some embodiments, the user interface that
corresponds to the selected user interface representation is displayed without displaying any
user interfaces that correspond to other user interface representations in the stack. In some
                                                    101

embodiments, the display of the user interface that corresponds to the selected user interface
representation replaces the display of the stack. For example, in response to detecting the tap
gesture including contact 564 at a location on touch screen 112 corresponding to display of
user interface representation 510 of user interface 507, device 100 exits the user interface
selection mode and displays user interface 507 on touch screen 112.
[00354]          In some embodiments, while at least the first user interface representation and
the second user interface representation, disposed above the first user interface representation
in the stack, are stationary on the display, the device detects (1096) a first flick gesture by a
second contact at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to one of the first
user interface representation or the second user interface representation on the display. The
flick gesture moves across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the
first direction on the display. For example, device 100 detects the flick gesture including
contact 556 and movement 558 at a location on touch screen 112 that corresponds to display
of user interface representation 510.
[00355]          In response to detecting the first flick gesture by the second contact, the device
moves the second user interface representation with a simulated inertia that is based on
whether the second contact was detected at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to the first user interface representation or to the second user interface
representation on the display (e.g., user interface representation 510 travels farther than the
length of movement 558). In some embodiments, when the flick gesture is directed to the
second user interface representation, the second user interface representation moves with a
smaller inertia than if the flick gesture is directed to the first user interface representation. In
some embodiments, when the flick gesture is directed to the second user interface
representation, the second user interface representation moves with a larger inertia than if the
flick gesture is directed to the first user interface representation. In some embodiments, if the
top card is flicked to the right, that top card flies off of the screen faster than it would have if
a lower laying card were flicked to the right, which would push the top card to the right
indirectly.
[003561          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 1OAA- 1OH have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
                                                    102

herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 2400,
and 2500) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 1000 described above with
respect to Figures 10A-10H. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects, focus
selectors, and animations described above with reference to method 1000 optionally have one
or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user interface objects, focus selectors,
and animations described herein with reference to other methods described herein (e.g.,
methods 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 2400, and 2500). For brevity, these details are not
repeated here.
[003571         Figures 11 A-1 1E illustrate a flow diagram of a method 1100 of navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 1100 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect
intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a
touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the display. In
some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control device that
is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 1000 are
performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or streaming
(e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication with a
remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California). Some
operations in method 1100 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is,
optionally, changed.
[00358]         As described below, the method 1100 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when navigating
between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate between user interfaces faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00359]         The device displays (1102) a first user interface on the display (e.g., user
interface 502 in Figure 6A). In some embodiments, the first user interface is the user interface
of a currently open application. In some embodiments, the first user interface is the current
user interface of an application, which is preceded by a sequence of previous user interfaces
                                                  103

for the application that are accessible by a "back" button provided on the user interfaces for
the application.
[003601          While displaying the first user interface on the display, the device detects
(1104) an input by a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., contact 602 in Figure
6B). In some embodiments, the input by the first contact starts in a predefined location on a
touch-sensitive display, such as on the left edge of the touch-sensitive display or in a
predefined area adjacent to the left edge of the touch-sensitive display. In some embodiments,
the input by the first contact starts at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to a predefined location on a display, such as on the left edge of the display or in
a predefined area adjacent to the left edge of the display. In some embodiments, the input
includes a press input made with the flat portion of a thumb.
[003611          While detecting the input by the first contact, the device displays (1106) a first
user interface representation and at least a second user interface representation on the display
(e.g., user interface representations 508 and 510 in Figure 6C).
[00362]          In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the first contact
has a characteristic intensity during the input that is below a predetermined intensity
threshold, the device displays (1108) the first user interface representation for the first user
interface and at least the second user interface representation for the second user interface on
the display, where the first user interface representation is displayed over the second user
interface representation and partially exposes the second user interface representation. For
example, upon determining that the intensity of contact 602 does not reach a deep press
intensity threshold (ITD) in Figures 6B-6C, user interface representation 508 is displayed over
user interface representation 510 in Figure 6C. In some embodiments, the first user interface
representation and the second user interface representation are displayed in a stack.
[003631          In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the first contact
reaches an intensity during the input that is above the predetermined intensity threshold, the
device enters (1110) a user interface selection mode and displays a plurality of user interface
representations in a stack on the display, the stack including the first user interface
representation displayed over and partially exposing the second user interface representation.
For example, upon determining that the intensity of contact 608 reaches a deep press intensity
threshold (ITD) in Figures 6H, the device enters a user interface selection mode, including
display of user interface representations 508, 510, and 526.
                                                    104

[003641         In some embodiments, display of the stack replaces display of the first user
interface on the display. For example, user interface 506 including the stack replaces display
of user interface 507 in Figure 6H.
[00365]         In some embodiments, the stack of user interface representations is gradually
spread out with the increasing contact intensity during the input. For example, as the intensity
of contact 610 continues to increase in from Figure 6J to Figure 6K, and then to maximum
intensity in Figure 6L, user interface representations in the stack are spread out, as illustrated
by movement of user interface representation 510 from location 510-a in Figure 6J, through
location 510-b in Figure 6K, out to location 510-c in Figure 6L, which is almost entirely off
touch screen 112.
[003661         In some embodiments, before the intensity reaches the predetermined
threshold intensity, the stack is revealed in a "peek" mode, and reducing the contact intensity
during the "peek" mode causes the previously expanded stack to retract. In some
embodiments, a quick deep press input with intensity passing the predetermined threshold
intensity causes the immediate display of the stack, skipping the peek mode.
[003671         In some embodiments, the first user interface corresponds (1112) to a first
open application, and, at a time when the input by the first contact is received, the second
user interface is a user interface of a second open application that was viewed just prior to
displaying the first open application. E.g., the first and second user interface representations
correspond to the last two applications open on the device. For example, as illustrated in
Figure 6C, first user interface representation 508 is of first user interface 502, which was
displayed on touch screen 112 immediately preceding display of the user interface
representations and second user interface representation 510 is of second user interface 507,
which was displayed on touch screen 112 immediately preceding display of first user
interface 502.
[00368]         In some embodiments, the first user interface corresponds (614) to a first open
application, and, at a time when the input by the first contact is received, the second user
interface is a user interface of the first open application that was viewed just prior to
displaying the first user interface of the first open application. E.g., the first and second user
interface representations correspond to the last two user interfaces of the application that was
open prior to peeking.
                                                   105

[003691          The method also includes, while displaying the first user interface
representation and at least the second user interface representation on the display, the device
detects (1116) termination of the input by the first contact (e.g., detecting lift off of the first
contact or detecting the intensity of the first contact fall below a minimum intensity detection
threshold, for example, detection of lift off of contact 602 in Figures 6D and 6G).
[003701         In response to detecting termination of the input by the first contact (618): in
accordance with a determination that the first contact had a characteristic intensity (e.g., a
representative intensity such as a maximum intensity) during the input that was below a
predetermined intensity threshold (e.g., a deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) and the first
contact moved during the input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to a predefined direction on the display (e.g., rightward, in a drag or swipe
gesture; or a movement of the contact to a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to a position over the second user interface representation in the stack on the
display), the device displays (1120) a second user interface that corresponds to the second
user interface representation. For example, in Figure series 6A, 6E-6G, device 100
determines that the intensity of contact 604 did not reach a predetermined deep press intensity
threshold (ITD), and the input included movement of contact 604 to the right. Thus, when lift
off of contact 604 is detected, device 100 displays user interface 507, corresponding to
second user interface representation 510 during the peek gesture, as illustrated in Figure 6G.
[003711         In some embodiments, the second user interface is displayed without
displaying other user interfaces that correspond to the plurality of user interface
representations in the stack. In some embodiments, display of the second user interface
replaces display of the stack on the display. In some embodiments, a light press followed by a
swipe gesture results in a "peek" that includes display of a representation of the prior user
interface followed by display of the prior user interface. In some embodiments, repeating the
light press followed by a swipe gesture enables a user to quickly toggle between a current
view and an immediately prior view (e.g., after toggling from first user interface 502 to
second interface 507 in Figure 6G, the user performs the same light press input with
movement in Figures 6Q-6S to toggle back to first user interface 502, as illustrated in Figure
6S.
[00372]          The method also includes, in accordance with a determination that the first
contact had a characteristic intensity (e.g., a maximum intensity) during the input that was
                                                   106

below the predetermined intensity threshold (e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) and
the first contact did not move during the input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface
that corresponds to the predefined direction on the display (e.g., the first contact was
stationary during the input or moved less than a threshold amount during the input), the
device redisplays (1122) the first user interface. For example, in Figures 6A-6D, device 100
determines that contact 602 did not reach a deep press intensity threshold (ITD) and was
stationary. Thus, when lift off of contact 602 is detected, device 100 redisplays first user
interface 502, as illustrated in Figure 6D.
[003731          In some embodiments, the first user interface is displayed without displaying
other user interfaces that correspond to the plurality of user interface representations in the
stack. In some embodiments, display of the first user interface replaces display of the stack
on the display. In some embodiments, a stationary light press results in a "peek" that includes
display of a representation of the prior user interface followed by redisplay of the current user
interface. In some embodiments, complete release of the intensity during the "peek," without
additional movement of the first contact, causes the display to return to showing the first user
interface.
[00374]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting termination of the input by the
first contact, in accordance with a determination that the first contact reached an intensity
during the input that was above the predetermined intensity threshold (e.g., deep press
intensity threshold (ITD)), the device maintains (1124) in the user interface selection mode
and maintains display of the stack. For example, in Figures 6H-61, device 100 determines that
contact 608 reached a deep press intensity threshold (ITD). Thus, when lift off of contact 608
is detected, device 100 maintains display of the stack, as illustrated in Figure 61.
[003751          In some embodiments, a deep press with intensity passing a predetermined
threshold intensity results in display of the stack, which is maintained when the deep press
input ends (e.g., as illustrated in Figures 6H-61). In some embodiments, the stack includes at
least user interface representations of all open applications and the user can navigate through
the representations and select a desired application using subsequent inputs (e.g., drag
gestures to the left or right in accordance with the operations described for method 1000).
[003761          In some embodiments, while displaying the second user interface on the
display, the device detects (1126) a second input by a second contact on the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., contact 626 in Figure 6Q). While detecting the second input by the second
                                                   107

contact, the device redisplays (1128) the first user interface representation and at least the
second user interface representation on the display (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 6R, where
user interface representation 510 is now displayed over user interface representation 508).
[003771         In some embodiments, while redisplaying the first user interface
representation and at least the second user interface representation on the display, the device
detects (1130) termination of the second input by the second contact (e.g., lift off of contact
626, as illustrated in Figure 6S). In response to detecting termination of the second input by
the second contact (1132): in accordance with a determination that the second contact had a
characteristic intensity during the input that was below the predetermined intensity threshold
(e.g., deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) and the second contact moved during the second
input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the predefined
direction on the display, the device redisplays (1134) the first user interface (e.g., toggles
back from the second user interface to the first user interface, as illustrated in Figure 6S).
[003781         In response to detecting termination of the second input by the second contact
(1132): in accordance with a determination that the second contact had a characteristic
intensity during the second input that was below the predetermined intensity threshold (e.g.,
deep press intensity threshold (ITD)) and the second contact did not move during the second
input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the predefined
direction on the display (e.g., the contact was stationary), the device redisplays (1136) the
second user interface (e.g., the user has only peeked back at a representation of the first user
interface, without toggling back.
[003791         In some embodiments, the input by the first contact includes a press input at a
location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a first predetermined region on or
near the display (e.g., the left edge of the display or bezel, for example, as illustrated in
Figures 6A-6D). While displaying the first user interface on the display after detecting
termination of the input by the first contact, the device detects (1138) a second input by a
second contact on the touch-sensitive surface, where the second input by the second contact
on the touch-sensitive surface is a press input at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to a second predetermined region on or near the display (e.g., the right edge of
the display or bezel, or somewhere within the first user interface) that is different from the
first predetermined region.
                                                   108

[003801         In response to detecting the second input by the second contact on the touch
sensitive surface, the device performs (1140) a content-dependent operation associated with
content of the first user interface (e.g., the content-dependent operation is selection or
activation of an item in the first user interface, or any other content-specific operation
associated with first user interface that is unrelated to the user interface selection mode).
[003811         In some embodiments, the first user interface is a view of a first application
that includes a hierarchy of views (e.g., a webpage history or a navigation hierarchy). The
input by the first contact includes a press input at or near a first edge of the touch-sensitive
surface. After redisplaying the first user interface, the device detects (1142) an edge swipe
gesture that originates from the first edge of the touch-sensitive surface. In response to
detecting the edge swipe gesture that originates from the first edge of the touch-sensitive
surface, the device displays (1144) a view in the hierarchy of views of the first application
that precedes the first user interface (e.g., a previously viewed webpage).
[00382]         In some embodiments, the first user interface is the user interface of a
currently open application. In some embodiments, the first user interface is the current user
interface of an application, which is preceded by a sequence of previous user interfaces for
the application that are accessible by a "back" button provided on each of the user interfaces.
[003831         In some embodiments, while displaying the first user interface of the first
application on the display, the device detects a drag gesture by a first contact on the touch
sensitive surface. In response to detecting the drag gesture by the first contact, in accordance
with a determination that the drag gesture by the first contact occurs within an area of the
touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a first predefined area on or near the display,
entering an application selection mode. In accordance with a determination that the drag
gesture by the first contact occurs within an area of the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to a second predefined area on or near the display that is distinct from the first
predefined area, displaying a second user interface of the first application, on the display, that
was displayed just prior to the display of the first user interface of the first application.
[00384]         In some embodiments, the first predefined area is adjacent to the bottom edge
of the display, and the second predefined area is at least a portion of the remainder of the
display, e.g., an area above the first predefined area. In some embodiments, the drag gesture
by the first contact, which occurs either within an area of the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to the first predefined area or within an area of the touch-sensitive surface that
                                                    109

corresponds to the second predefined area, is also required to start on an area of the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to the left edge of the display or in an area of the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to a predefined area adjacent to the left edge of the display
(in order to either enter the application selection mode or display the second user interface.
[003851          In some embodiments, in accordance with the determination that the drag
gesture by the first contact starts in an area of the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to
the first predefined area on the display, the device displays a plurality of user interface
representations for a corresponding plurality of applications on the display, including a first
user interface representation that corresponds to the first user interface of the first application
and a second user interface representation that corresponds to a second user interface of a
second application that is distinct from the first application. In some embodiments, display of
the stack replaces display of the first user interface of the first application on the display. In
some embodiments, the plurality of user interface representations are displayed in a stack. In
some embodiments, the first user interface representation is displayed over and partially
exposes the second user interface representation.
[00386]          In some embodiments, after detecting termination of the input by the first
contact, while displaying the stack in the user interface selection mode in accordance with the
determination that the first contact reached an intensity during the input that was above the
predetermined intensity threshold (e.g., as illustrated in Figures 6H-61), the device detects
(1146) a drag gesture by a second contact on the touch-sensitive surface at a location that
corresponds to the second user interface representation on the display, where the drag gesture
moves across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to a first direction on
the display (e.g., as illustrated in Figures 5G-51).
[003871          In response to detecting the drag gesture by the second contact on the touch
sensitive surface at a location corresponding to the second user interface representation on the
display (1148), where the drag gesture moves across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction
that corresponds to the first direction on the display, the device moves (1150) the second user
interface representation in the first direction at a second speed based on a speed of the second
contact (e.g., movement of user interface representation 510 from location 510-a in Figure 5G
to location 510-c in Figure 51); and the device moves (1152) the first user interface
representation, disposed above the second user interface representation, in the first direction
at a first speed greater than the second speed (e.g., movement of user interface representation
                                                    110

508 from location 508-a in Figure 5G to location 508-b, and off the screen in Figure 5I). In
some embodiments, once the user interface selection mode is activated, it may be navigated
according to the processes described above for method 1000.
[003881         It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 11 A-1 1E have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 2400,
and 2500) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 1000 described above with
respect to Figures 11 A-1 1E. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects,
intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described above with reference to
method 1100 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user
interface objects, intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described herein with
reference to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500,
2400, and 2500). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[003891         Figures 12A-12E illustrate a flow diagram of a method 1200 of navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 1200 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect
intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a
touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the display. In
some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control device that
is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 1000 are
performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or streaming
(e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication with a
remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California). Some
operations in method 1200 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is,
optionally, changed.
[00390]         As described below, the method 1200 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when navigating
                                                  111

between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate between user interfaces faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00391]         The device displays (1202) a first user interface on the display (e.g., user
interface 502 in Figure 7A). In some embodiments, the first user interface is the user interface
of a currently open application. In some embodiments, the first user interface is the current
user interface of an application, and display of the first user interface was preceded by display
of a sequence of previous user interfaces of the application (e.g., previous web pages). In
some embodiments, the previous user interfaces are accessible by activating a "back" button
provided on the user interfaces of the application (e.g., back button 614 in Figure 7A.
[00392]         While displaying the first user interface on the display, the device detects
(1204), on the touch-sensitive surface, an input by a first contact that includes a period of
increasing intensity of the first contact (e.g., contact 702 having increasing intensity in
Figures 7B-7E. In some embodiments, the input by the first contact is made with the flat
portion of a thumb.
[00393]         In response to detecting the input by the first contact that includes the period
of increasing intensity of the first contact (e.g., contact 702), the device displays (1206) a first
user interface representation for the first user interface and a second user interface
representation for a second user interface (e.g., a user interface of a second application that
was displayed just before the first user interface of the current application) on the display,
wherein the first user interface representation is displayed over the second user interface
representation and partially exposes the second user interface representation (e.g., user
interface representations 508 and 510 in Figure 7C.
[00394]         In some embodiments, the first user interface representation and the second
user interface representation are displayed in a stack. In some embodiments, display of the
stack replaces display of the first user interface on the display.
[00395]         In some embodiments, the user interface enters a "peek" mode in response to a
light press, and as the contact intensity increases or decreases after activation of the "peek"
mode, a varying amount of the user interface representation for the previously displayed
application is revealed from beneath the representation of the user interface of the current
application (e.g., as the intensity of contact 702 increases from Figure 7C to Figure 7D, more
                                                    112

of user interface representation 510 is revealed from beneath user interface representation
508).
[00396]          In some embodiments, before the period of increasing intensity of the first
contact, the first contact has a period of varying intensity that includes both rising and falling
intensities (e.g., the intensity of contact 704 rises from Figure 7G to Figure 7H, falls from
Figure 7H to Figure 71, and then increases again from Figure 71 to Figure 7J. The device
dynamically changes (1208) an area of the second user interface representation that is
revealed from behind the first user interface representation in accordance with rising and
falling of the intensity of the first contact during the period of varying intensity (e.g., more of
user interface representation 508 is revealed when the intensity of contact 704 rises from
Figure 7G to Figure 7H; less of user interface representation 508 is revealed when the
intensity of contact 704 falls from Figure 7H to Figure 71, and then more of user interface
representation 708 is revealed again when the intensity of contact 704 rises from Figure 71 to
Figure 7J.
[003971           The method also includes that, while displaying the first user interface
representation and the second user interface representation on the display, the device detects
(1210) that, during the period of increasing intensity of the first contact, the intensity of the
first contact meets one or more predetermined intensity criteria (e.g., the intensity of the first
contact is at or above a predetermined threshold intensity, such as a deep press intensity
threshold (ITD), as illustrated in Figure 7E).
[00398]          In some embodiments, during the period of increasing contact intensity of the
first contact and before the intensity of the first contact meets the one or more predetermined
intensity criteria, the device increases (1212) an area of the second user interface
representation that is revealed from behind the first user interface representation in
accordance with an increase in intensity of the first contact. For example, as the intensity of
contact 702 increases from Figure 7C to Figure 7D, more of user interface representation 510
is revealed from beneath user interface representation 508. In some embodiments, the second
user interface is displayed larger (e.g., as if coming towards the user from behind the plane of
the display) in response to increasing intensity of the contact.
[00399]          In some embodiments, increasing the area of the second user interface
representation that is revealed from behind the first user interface representation in
accordance with the increase in intensity of the first contact includes displaying (1214) an
                                                    113

animation that dynamically changes the amount of area of the second user interface
representation that is revealed from behind the first user interface representation based on
changes in the intensity of the first contact over time.
[00400]         In some embodiments, dynamically changing the amount of area includes
updating the amount of area of the second user interface multiple times a second (e.g., 10, 20,
30, or 60 times per second), optionally without regard to whether or not the contact meets the
one or more predetermined intensity criteria. In some embodiments, the animation is a fluid
animation that is updated as the intensity of the first contact changes, so as to provide
feedback to the user as to the amount of intensity detected by the device (e.g., feedback as to
the amount of force applied by the user). In some embodiments the animation is updated
smoothly and quickly so as to create the appearance for the user that the user interface is
responding in real-time to changes in force applied to the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the
animation is perceptually instantaneous for the user so as to provide immediate feedback to
the user and enable the user to better modulate the force that they are applying to the touch
sensitive surface to interact efficiently with user interface objects that are responsive to
contacts with different or changing intensity).
[00401]         In some embodiments, increasing the area of the second user interface
representation that is revealed from behind the first user interface representation in
accordance with the increase in intensity of the first contact includes moving (1216) the first
user interface representation in a first direction to increase a lateral position offset on the
display between the first user interface representation and the second user interface
representation. For example, as the intensity of contact 704 increases from Figure 7G to
Figure 7H, user interface representation 510 slides to the right, from location 510-a in Figure
7G to location 510-b in Figure 7H, revealing more of user interface representation 508. In
some embodiments, as a finger contact presses harder on the touch-sensitive surface at a
location that corresponds to the left edge of the display or a predefined area adjacent to the
left edge of the display, the first user interface representation moves to the left to reveal more
of the second user interface representation.
[00402]         In some embodiments, increasing the area of the second user interface
representation that is revealed from behind the first user interface representation in
accordance with the increase in intensity of the first contact includes, while moving the first
user interface representation in the first direction to increase the lateral position offset on the
                                                    114

display between the first user interface representation and the second user interface
representation, moving (718) the first user interface representation and the second user
interface representation towards each other in a second direction perpendicular to the first
direction (e.g., as the intensity of contact 702 increases from Figure 7C to Figure 7D, first
user interface representation 508 appears to move away from the surface of touch screen 112,
and second user interface representation 510 appears to move towards the surface of the
touch screen. In some embodiments, the second direction perpendicular to the first direction
is the z-direction perpendicular to the surface of the display. In some embodiments, the first
user interface representation and the second user interface representation move towards a
same layer in a z-layer order.
[00403]          In some embodiments, the device detects (1220) that the intensity of the first
contact meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria (e.g., deep press intensity
threshold (ITD), as illustrated in Figures 7E). In response to detecting that the intensity of the
first contact meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria, the device displays
(1222) an animation showing the first user interface representation receding behind the
second user interface representation and the second user interface representation moving into
the foreground and transitioning to the second user interface (e.g., user interface
representation 510 pops out from behind user interface representation 508, as illustrated in
Figure 7E, and then an animation transitions the display into user interface 507 in Figure 7F).
[00404]          In some embodiments, the device changes (1224) a level of blurring effect
applied to at least one of the first user interface representation and the second user interface
representation during the animation. E.g., the first user interface representation becomes more
blurred and/or the second user interface representation becomes less blurred during the
animation, as illustrated in the series of Figures 7C-7E, where user interface representation
510 starts off blurry in Figure 7C and comes into focus as it appears to move towards the
surface of touch screen 112. In contrast, user interface 508 starts off in focus in Figure 7C
and becomes blurry as it appears to move away from the surface of touch screen 112.
[00405]          The method also includes that, in response to detecting that the intensity of the
first contact meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria (1226): the device ceases
to display (1228) the first user interface representation and the second user interface
representation on the display; and the device displays (1230) the second user interface on the
display (e.g., without displaying the first user interface). In some embodiments, the "peek" is
                                                    115

followed by a "pop" that displays the second user interface, when the contact intensity
reaches or exceeds a predetermined deep press threshold intensity. For example, when the
intensity of contacts 702, 704, and 706 reach a deep press intensity threshold (ITD) in Figures
7F, 7J, and 70, respectively, the user second user interface representation "pops," and the
device displays the corresponding user interface.
[00406]         In some embodiments, while displaying the second user interface on the
display, the device detects (1232), on the touch-sensitive surface, an input by a second
contact that includes a period of increasing intensity of the second contact (e.g., contact 706
having increasing intensity in Figures 7L to 70).
[004071         In response to detecting the input by the second contact that includes the
period of increasing intensity of the second contact, the device displays (1234) the first user
interface representation and the second user interface representation on the display, wherein
the second user interface representation is displayed over the first user interface
representation and partially exposes the first user interface representation (e.g., display of
user interface representations 508 and 510 in Figure 7M).
[00408]         In some embodiments, the first user interface representation and the second
user interface representation are displayed in a second stack. In some embodiments, display
of the second stack replaces display of the second user interface on the display.
[00409]         In some embodiments, the user interface enters a "peek" mode in response to a
light press, and as the contact intensity increases or decreases after activation of the "peek"
mode, a varying amount of the user interface representation for the previously displayed
application is revealed from beneath the representation of the user interface of the current
application. For example, more of user interface representation 508 is revealed from behind
user interface representation 510 in response to detection of an increasing intensity of contact
706 in Figures 7M-7N.
[00410]         In some embodiments, while displaying the first user interface representation
and the second user interface representation on the display, the device detects (1236) that,
during the period of increasing intensity of the second contact, the intensity of the second
contact meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria.
[00411]         In response to detecting that the intensity of the second contact meets the one
or more predetermined intensity criteria (1238), the device ceases to display (1240) the first
                                                  116

user interface representation and the second user interface representation on the display; and
the device displays (1242) the first user interface on the display (e.g., without displaying the
second user interface). For example, device 100 detects that the intensity of contact 706
exceeds a deep press intensity threshold (ITD), and in response replaces display of user
interface 506 with first user interface 508 in Figure 70. In some embodiments, the "peek" is
followed by a "pop" that displays the first user interface, when the contact intensity reaches
or exceeds a predetermined deep press threshold intensity.
[00412]         In some embodiments, while displaying the second user interface on the
display, the device detects (1244), on the touch-sensitive surface, an input by a second
contact that includes a period of increasing intensity of the second contact. (e.g., contact 704
having increasing intensity in Figures 7G-7H)
[00413]         In response to detecting the input by the second contact that includes the
period of increasing intensity of the second contact, the device displays (1246) the first user
interface representation and the second user interface representation on the display, wherein
the second user interface representation is displayed over the first user interface
representation and partially exposes the first user interface representation (e.g., display of
user interface representations 508 and 510 in Figure 7M).
[00414]         In some embodiments, the first user interface representation and the second
user interface representation are displayed in a second stack. In some embodiments, display
of the second stack replaces display of the second user interface on the display.
[00415]         In some embodiments, the user interface enters a "peek" mode in response to a
light press, and as the contact intensity increases or decreases after activation of the "peek"
mode, a varying amount of the user interface representation for the previously displayed
application is revealed from beneath the representation of the user interface of the current
application. For example, more of user interface representation 508 is revealed from behind
user interface representation 510 in response to detection of an increasing intensity of contact
704 in Figures 7G-7H.
[00416]         While displaying the first user interface representation and the second user
interface representation on the display, the device detects (1248) termination of the input by
the second contact (e.g., detecting lift off of the second contact (e.g., as in Figure 7K) or
detecting the intensity of the second contact fall below a minimum intensity detection
                                                   117

threshold (e.g., as in Figure 7J)) without the intensity of the second contact having met the
one or more predetermined intensity criteria.
[004171         In response to detecting termination of the input by the second contact without
the intensity of the second contact having met the one or more predetermined intensity
criteria (1250): the device ceases to display (1252) the first user interface representation and
the second user interface representation on the display; and the device displays (1254) the
second user interface on the display (e.g., without displaying the first user interface). For
example, device 100 detects that the intensity of contact 704 falls below a minimum intensity
detection threshold (ITO), and in response replaces display of user interface 506 with second
user interface 510 in Figure 7J. In some embodiments, when the input terminates without the
contact intensity reaching a predetermined deep press threshold intensity, the "peek" ceases
and the second user interface is redisplayed.
[00418]         It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 12A-12E have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1300, 1400, 1500, 2400,
and 2500) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 1200 described above with
respect to Figures 1OA-10H. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects,
intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described above with reference to
method 1200 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user
interface objects, intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described herein with
reference to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1300, 1400, 1500,
2400, and 2500). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00419]         Figures 13A-13D illustrate a flow diagram of a method 1300 of navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 1300 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect
intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a
touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the display. In
some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In some
                                                  118

embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control device that
is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 1000 are
performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or streaming
(e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication with a
remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California). Some
operations in method 1300 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is,
optionally, changed.
[00420]          As described below, the method 1300 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when navigating
between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate between user interfaces faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00421]           The device displays (1302) a plurality of user interface representations in a
stack on the display, (e.g., in a user interface selection mode, displaying a stack of cards (or
other objects) in a z-layer order representing user interfaces of open applications, cards
representing current and previously viewed user interfaces of a single application, cards
representing messages in an e-mail chain, etc.). At least a first user interface representation, a
second user interface representation, and a third user interface representation are visible on
the display. The first user interface representation (e.g., user interface representation 508 in
Figure 8A) is laterally offset from the second user interface representation in a first direction
(e.g., laterally offset to the right on the display) and partially exposes the second user
interface representation. The second user interface representation (e.g., user interface
representation 510 in Figure 8A) is laterally offset from the third user interface representation
(e.g., user interface representation 526 in Figure 8A) in the first direction (e.g., laterally offset
to the right on the display) and partially exposes the third user interface representation. For
example, in some embodiments, the stack is displayed when the display is in a user interface
selection mode, as shown in Figure 8A.
[00422]          In some embodiments, prior to displaying the stack on the display (1304): the
device displays (1306) a first user interface that corresponds to the first user interface
representation on the display (e.g., user interface 502 of a web browsing application, as
illustrated in Figure 7A). While displaying the first user interface, the device detects (1308) a
predetermined input. In some embodiments, the predetermined input is, for example, a
                                                    119

double-tap or double press on the "home" button on the device; or, for an electronic device
that includes one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with a touch-sensitive
display; a deep press on a predetermined area of the first user interface (e.g., an upper left
comer); a deep press with the flat portion of a thumb anywhere on the first user interface; or a
deep press on a predetermined area of the device, such as on the left edge of the touch
sensitive display, in a predefined area adjacent to the left edge of the touch-sensitive display,
on the bottom edge of the touch-sensitive display, or in a predefined area adjacent to the
bottom edge of the touch-sensitive display.
[00423]         In response to detecting the predetermined input (1310): The device enters
(1313) a user interface selection mode; and the device displays (1312) the stack comprising
the plurality of user interface representations (e.g., display of user interface 506 of a user
interface selection mode including display of a stack in Figure 9A).
[00424]         In some embodiments, the stack is displayed (1316) in response to detecting
an input by the first contact (e.g., a press input with an intensity above a predefined
threshold) when the first contact is at a first location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to an onscreen location other than the second user interface representation (e.g.,
contact 806 is detected at location 806-a, which does not correspond with display of user
interface representation 510 on touch screen 112 in Figures 8J-8K). The first contact moves
on the touch-sensitive surface from the first location to the location that corresponds to the
second user interface representation on the display before the increase in intensity of the first
contact is detected (e.g., contact 806-a moves from location 806-a to location 806-b in Figure
8K-8L). For example, the first contact is continuously detected on the device from before the
time that the second user interface representation is displayed until at least the time that the
increased area of the second user interface representation that is exposed from behind the first
user interface representation is displayed.
[00425]         The method also includes that the device detects (1318) an input by a first
contact on the touch sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the second user
interface representation on the display (e.g., contact 802 at a location corresponding to
display of user interface representation 510 on touch screen 112 in Figure 8A). In some
embodiments, the device detects a press by a finger contact at a location on the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to a user interface representation in the stack, and the
device detects a varying intensity of the finger contact (e.g., the intensity of contact 802
                                                   120

increases from Figure 8A to Figure 8B, decreases from Figure 8B to Figure 8C, and then
increases again from Figure 8C to Figure 8D).
[00426]          In some embodiments, the input by the first contact includes a period of
decreasing intensity of the first contact following a period of increasing intensity of the first
contact. During the period of decreasing intensity of the first contact, the device decreases
(1320) the area of the second user interface representation that is exposed from behind the
first user interface representation by decreasing the lateral offset between the first user
interface representation and the second user interface representation. For example, in
response to the decreasing intensity of contact 802 from Figure 8B to Figure 8C, user
interface representation 508 starts to slide back over user interface representation 510,
moving from location 508-b in Figure 8B to location 508-c in Figure 8C.
[004271          In some embodiments, after revealing more of the second user interface
representation in response to detecting an increase in the contact intensity, the device reveals
less of the second user interface representation in response to detecting a decrease in the
contact intensity (e.g., in response to increasing intensity of contact 802 from Figure 8A to
Figure 8B, user interface representation 508 slides to the right of user interface representation
510, moving from location 508-a in Figure 8A to location 508-b in Figure 8B). In some
embodiments, an animation is displayed to show movement of the first user interface
representation and the second user interface representation in a manner that dynamically
responds to small changes in the intensity of the first contact (e.g., movement of user
interface representation 508 in Figures 8A-8C is directly manipulated by the user increasing
or decreasing the intensity of contact 802.
[00428]          The method also includes that, in accordance with detecting an increase in
intensity of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface at the location that corresponds to
the second user interface representation on the display, the device increases (1322) an area of
the second user interface representation that is exposed from behind the first user interface
representation by increasing the lateral offset between the first user interface representation
and the second user interface representation (e.g., in response to increasing intensity of
contact 802 from Figure 8A to Figure 8B, user interface representation 508 slides to the right
of user interface representation 510, moving from location 508-a in Figure 8A to location
508-b in Figure 8B and revealing more of user interface representation 810).
                                                   121

[004291          In some embodiments, the second user interface representation (e.g., user
interface representation 510 in Figures 8A-8C) is positioned below the first user interface
representation (e.g., user interface representation 508 in Figures 8A-8C) and above the third
user interface representation (e.g., user interface representation 526 in Figures 8A-8C) in a z
layer order, and a press by the contact at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to the exposed portion of the second user interface representation reveals more
of the second user interface representation. In some embodiments, to reveal more of the
second user interface representation, the first user interface representation moves to the right
in response to detecting an increasing intensity of the contact at a location on the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to the exposed portion of the second user interface
representation, thereby "peeking" at more of the second user interface representation (e.g.,
movement of user interface 508 from location 508-a in Figure 8A to location 508-b in Figure
8B in response to increasing intensity of contact 802 reveals more of user interface
representation 510).
[00430]          In some embodiments, increasing the area of the second user interface
representation that is exposed from behind the first user interface representation includes
moving (1324) the first user interface representation in the first direction (e.g., moving the
first user interface representation to the right to increase the lateral offset between the first
user interface representation and the second user interface representation). For example, user
interface representation 508 moves to the right to reveal more of user interface representation
510 in Figures 8A-8B.
[00431]          In some embodiments, increasing the area of the second user interface
representation that is exposed from behind the first user interface representation includes
moving (1326) the second user interface representation in a second direction that is opposite
the first direction (e.g., moving the second user interface representation to the left (with or
without concurrent movement of the first user interface representation to the right), to
increase the lateral offset between the first user interface representation and the second user
interface representation on the display). For example, user interface representation 510 moves
to the left to reveal more of the representation in Figures 8G-8H.
[00432]          In some embodiments, while displaying the stack, the device detects (1328) a
drag gesture by a second contact on the touch-sensitive surface at a location that corresponds
to the second user interface representation and that moves across the touch-sensitive surface
                                                    122

in a direction that corresponds to a second direction that is opposite the first direction on the
display; and (e.g., detecting a leftward drag on the touch-sensitive surface at a location that
corresponds to the second user interface representation).
[00433]          In response to detecting the drag gesture by the second contact on the touch
sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the second user interface representation in a
direction on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the second direction on the
display (1330) the device: moves (1332) the second user interface representation in the
second direction at a second speed on the display based on a speed of the second contact on
the touch-sensitive surface; moves (1334) the first user interface representation in the second
direction at a first speed greater than the second speed; moves (1336) the third user interface
representation in the second direction at a third speed less than the second speed; and moves
(1338) a fourth user interface representation in the second direction at a fourth speed greater
than the second speed. In some embodiments, the fourth speed is greater than the first speed.
In some embodiments, the fourth user interface representation is disposed on top of the first
user interface representation in the stack.
[00434]          In some embodiments, in response to a prior drag gesture to the right, the
fourth user interface representation was moved off the display to the right. A subsequent drag
gesture to the left causes the fourth user interface representation to come into view on the
display from the right (e.g., a drag gesture including contact 546 and movement 548 from
location 546-c in Figure 5L, through location 546-e in Figure 5M, to location 546-f in Figure
5N causes user interface representation 508 to come back into view on the display from the
right. In some embodiments, the speed of the fourth user interface representation is faster
than any user interface representations below it in relative z-position.
[004351          In some embodiments, the device detects (1340) that the intensity of the first
contact on the touch-sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the second user
interface representation meets one or more predetermined intensity criteria (e.g., the intensity
of the first contact is at or above a predetermined threshold intensity, such as a deep press
intensity threshold, as illustrated in Figure 8D).
[004361          In response to detecting that the intensity of the first contact on the touch
sensitive surface at the location that corresponds to the second user interface representation
meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria (1342) the device: ceases to display
(1342) the stack; and displays (1348) a second user interface that corresponds to the second
                                                   123

user interface representation. For example, in response to detecting that the intensity of
contact 802 exceeds a deep press intensity threshold (ITD) when at a location on touch screen
 112 corresponding to display of user interface representation, device 100 replaces display of
user interface 506 (corresponding to a user interface selection mode) with display of user
interface 507 (corresponding to user interface representation 510) in Figures 8C-8D. In some
embodiments, the second user interface is displayed without displaying any user interfaces
that correspond to other user interface representations in the stack. In some embodiments, the
display of the second user interface replaces the display of the stack.
[004371         In some embodiments, in response to detecting that the intensity of the first
contact on the touch-sensitive surface at the location that corresponds to the second user
interface representation meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria, the device
displays an animation of the second user interface representation transitioning to the second
user interface. For example, in response to detecting that the intensity of contact 802 exceeds
a deep press intensity threshold (ITD) when at a location on touch screen 112 corresponding
to display of user interface representation, device 100 displays an animation where first user
interface representation 508 completely slides off second user interface representation 510 to
the right, second user interface 510 appears to be lifted from the stack (e.g., passing through
location 510-b in Figure 8E to location 510-c in Figure 8F), and first user interface
representation 508 is shuffled back into the stack below second user interface representation
510 as the device transitions into display of user interface 507, as illustrated in the series of
Figures 8C, 8E, and 8F.
[00438]         In some embodiments, the device detects (1350) movement of the first contact
from a location on the touch sensitive surface that corresponds to the second user interface
representation to a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the third user
interface representation on the display, where an intensity of the first contact during the
movement of the first contact is less than a characteristic intensity detected during the
increase in intensity of the first contact at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to the second user interface representation (e.g., device 100 detects movement
808 of contact 806 from location 806-b in Figure 8N, corresponding to display of user
interface representation 510, to location 806-c in Figure 80, corresponding to display of user
interface representation 526).
                                                    124

[004391          In accordance with detecting an increase in intensity of the first contact on the
touch-sensitive surface at the location that corresponds to the third user interface
representation on the display, the device increases (1352) an area of the third user interface
representation that is exposed from behind the second user interface representation by
increasing the lateral offset between the second user interface representation and the third
user interface representation (e.g., device 100 detects an increase in the intensity of contact
806 from Figure 80 to Figure 8P, and in response moves user interface representations 510
and 508 to the right, from locations 510-a and 508-a in Figure 80 to locations 510-h and 508
h in Figure 8P, respectively, to reveal more of user interface 526). In some embodiments,
only the user interface representation directly above the selected user interface representation
(e.g., rather than all user interface representation above the selected user interface
representation) is moved out of the way to reveal more of the selected user interface
representation. For example, only user interface representation 510 would be moved in Figure
80, to reveal more of user interface representation 526 (e.g., by sliding further under user
interface representation 508).
[00440]          In some embodiments, as the user drags their finger over different
representations in the stack, the stack spreads apart to reveal more of the representation under
the user's finger. In some embodiments, the user can increase intensity of the contact to peek
at one representation, reduce intensity (without lifting off), move to the next representation,
increase intensity to peek at the next representation, reduce intensity (without lifting off),
move to another representation, and so on.
[00441]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 13A-13D have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1400, 1500, 2400,
and 2500) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 1300 described above with
respect to Figures 13A-13D. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects,
intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described above with reference to
method 1300 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user
interface objects, intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described herein with
                                                   125

reference to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1400, 1500,
2400, and 2500). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00442]          Figures 14A-14C illustrate a flow diagram of a method 1400 of navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 1400 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors
to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
display is a touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the
display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In
some embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control
device that is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 1000
are performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or
streaming (e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication
with a remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California). Some operations in method 1400 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of
some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00443]          As described below, the method 1400 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when navigating
between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate between user interfaces faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00444]           The device displays (1402) a plurality of user interface representations in a
stack on the display, (e.g., in a user interface selection mode, displaying a stack of cards (or
other objects) in a z-layer order representing user interfaces of open applications, cards
representing current and previously viewed user interfaces of a single application, cards
representing messages in an e-mail chain, etc.). At least a first user interface representation, a
second user interface representation, and a third user interface representation are visible on
the display (e.g., a stack displaying user interface representations 508, 510, and 526, as
illustrated in Figure 9A). The second user interface representation (e.g., user interface
representation 510 in Figure 9A) is laterally offset from the first user interface representation
in a first direction (e.g., laterally offset to the right on the display) and partially exposes the
first user interface representation (e.g., user interface representation 526 in Figure 9A). The
                                                      126

third user interface representation (e.g., user interface representation 508 in Figure 9A) is
laterally offset from the second user interface representation in the first direction (e.g.,
laterally offset to the right on the display) and partially exposes the second user interface
representation.
[00445]          The device detects (1404) a drag gesture by a first contact that moves across
the touch-sensitive surface, where movement of the drag gesture by the first contact
corresponds to movement across one or more of the plurality of user interface representations
in the stack. For example, a drag gesture including contact 902 and movement 904 in Figure
9B.
[00446]          During the drag gesture, when the first contact moves over a location on the
touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the first user interface representation on the
display, the device reveals (1406) more of the first user interface representation from behind
the second user interface representation on the display. For example, as contact 902 moves
over user interface representation 526, user interface representations 510 and 508 move to the
right to reveal more of user interface representation 526 in Figure 9B.
[004471          In some embodiments, revealing more of the first user interface representation
from behind the second user interface representation includes moving (1408) the second user
interface representation in the first direction (e.g., moving the second user interface
representation to the right to increase the lateral offset between the first user interface
representation and the second user interface representation).
[00448]          In some embodiments, revealing more area of the first user interface
representation from behind the second user interface representation includes moving (1410)
the first user interface representation in a second direction that is opposite the first direction
(e.g., moving the first user interface representation to the left (with or without concurrent
movement of the second user interface representation to the right), to increase the lateral
offset between the first user interface representation and the second user interface
representation on the display).
[00449]          In some embodiments, during the drag gesture, when the first contact moves
(1412) from a first location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the first user
interface representation to a second location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds
to the second user interface representation (e.g., movement of contact 902 from location 902
a, corresponding to display of user interface representation 526 in Figure 9B to location 904
                                                   127

corresponding to display of user interface representation 510 in Figure 9C): the device
reveals (1414) more of the second user interface representation from behind the third user
interface representation on the display, and reveals (1416) less of the first user interface
representation from behind the second user interface representation on the display (e.g., user
representation 510 moves to the left revealing more of its user interface representation and
covering more of user interface representation 526 in Figure 9D).
[00450]         In some embodiments, while the first contact is at a location on the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to one of the plurality of user interface representations in
the stack, the device detects (1418) lift-off of the first contact (e.g., device 100 detects lift off
of contact 902 in Figure 9E). In response to detecting lift-off of the first contact (1420): the
device ceases to display (1422) the stack; and the device displays (1424) a user interface that
corresponds to said one of the plurality of user interface representations (e.g., device 100
replaces display of user interface 506 in Figure 9E with display of user interface 507 in
Figure 9F).
[00451]         For example, if the first contact in the drag gesture lifts off while over a
location that corresponds to the first user interface representation, then the first user interface
is displayed. If the first contact in the drag gesture lifts off while over a location that
corresponds to the second user interface representation, then the second user interface is
displayed. More generally, if the first contact in the drag gesture lifts off while over a location
that corresponds to a respective user interface representation, then the corresponding user
interface is displayed. In some embodiments, display of the user interface that corresponds to
said one of the plurality of user interface representations replaces display of the stack.
[00452]         In some embodiments, wherein the device has one or more sensors to detect
intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, while the first contact is at a location on
the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to one of the plurality of user interface
representations in the stack, the device detects (1426) that an intensity of the first contact
meets one or more predetermined intensity criteria (e.g., the intensity of the first contact is at
or above a predetermined threshold intensity, such as a deep press intensity threshold, as
illustrated in Figure 9G).
[00453]         In response to detecting the intensity of the first contact meets one or more
predetermined intensity criteria (1428): the device ceases to display (1430) the stack; and the
device displays (1432) a user interface corresponding to said one of the plurality of user
                                                   128

interface representations (e.g., device 100 replaces display of user interface 506 in Figure 9G
with display of user interface 507 in Figure 9H).
[00454]          For example, if the first contact in the drag gesture makes a deep press while
over a location that corresponds to the first user interface representation, then the first user
interface is displayed. If the first contact in the drag gesture makes a deep press while over a
location that corresponds to the second user interface representation, then the second user
interface is displayed. More generally, if the first contact in the drag gesture makes a deep
press while over a location that corresponds to a respective user interface representation, then
the corresponding user interface is displayed. In some embodiments, display of the user
interface that corresponds to said one of the plurality of user interface representations
replaces display of the stack.
[00455]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 1400 have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that the
described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of ordinary
skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described herein.
Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with respect
to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1500, 2400, and
2500) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 1400 described above with
respect to Figures 14A-14C. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects,
intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described above with reference to
method 1400 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user
interface objects, intensity thresholds, focus selectors, and animations described herein with
reference to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1500,
2400, and 2500). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00456]          Figure 15A illustrates a flow diagram of a method 1500 of navigating between
user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 1500 is performed at an
electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure
1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch-screen
display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the display. In some
embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control device that
                                                    129

is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 1000 are
performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or streaming
(e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication with a
remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California). Some
operations in method 1500 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is,
optionally, changed.
[004571          As described below, the method 1500 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when navigating
between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate between user interfaces faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00458]          The device displays (1502) a first user interface of a first application on the
display. The first user interface including a backwards navigation control (e.g., user interface
6M including backwards navigation control icon 614). In some embodiments, the backwards
navigation control is a back button or other icon that when activated (e.g., by a tap gesture)
causes the device to replace display of the current user interface in an application with
display of the prior user interface displayed in the application. In some embodiments, the first
user interface is the current user interface of an application, whose display was preceded by
the display of a sequence of previous user interfaces of the application. In some
embodiments, the sequence of previous user interfaces of the application is navigated, in
reverse chronological order, by activating a backwards navigation control provided on the
user interfaces.
[00459]          In some embodiments, the user interfaces for an application are arranged in a
hierarchy and the backwards navigation control is a back button or other icon that when
activated (e.g., by a tap gesture) causes the device to replace display of the current user
interface in a first level of the hierarchy with display of a prior user interface at a second level
in the hierarchy, where the second level is adjacent to and higher than the first level in the
hierarchy. In some embodiments, the first user interface is the current user interface of an
application, whose display was preceded by the display of a sequence of previous user
interfaces in the hierarchy. In some embodiments, a hierarchical sequence of user interfaces
for an application is navigated, in reverse hierarchical order, by activating a backwards
navigation control. For example, a hierarchical sequence in an email application (including a
                                                   130

multiple levels of mailboxes and inboxes) is navigated, in reverse hierarchical order, by
activating a backwards navigation control that is provided on the user interfaces.
[00460]          While displaying the first user interface of the first application on the display,
the device detects (1504) a gesture by a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface at a
location that corresponds to the backwards navigation control on the display (e.g., a tap
gesture including contact 612 in Figure 6M or a tap gesture including contact 624 in Figure
60).
[00461]          In response to detecting the gesture by the first contact on the touch-sensitive
surface at a location that corresponds to the backwards navigation control (1506): in
accordance with a determination that the gesture by the first contact is a gesture (e.g., a
stationary deep press gesture) with an intensity of the first contact that meets one or more
predetermined intensity criteria (e.g., the intensity of the first contact during the gesture meets
or exceeds a predetermined threshold intensity, such as a deep press intensity threshold), the
device replaces (1508) display of the first user interface of the first application with display
of a plurality of representations of user interfaces of the first application, including a
representation of the first user interface and a representation of a second user interface. For
example, device 100 determines that contact 612 includes an intensity satisfying a deep press
intensity threshold, and in response, displays user interface representations 508, 618, and 622
of previous displayed web browsing user interfaces 502, 616, and 620, respectively, as
illustrated in Figures 6M-6N.
[00462]          In some embodiments, rather than requiring the deep press gesture to be on the
backwards navigation control, the deep press gesture is made on an area of the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to the left edge of the display or in an area of the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to an area adjacent to the left edge of the display. In some
embodiments, rather than requiring the deep press gesture to be on an area of the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to the backwards navigation control, the deep press gesture
is made anywhere on the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the gesture by the
first contact is made with the flat portion of a thumb.
[00463]          In response to detecting the gesture by the first contact on the touch-sensitive
surface at a location that corresponds to the backwards navigation control (1506): in
accordance with a determination that the gesture by the first contact is a gesture (e.g., a tap
gesture) with an intensity of the first contact that does not meet the one or more
                                                   131

predetermined intensity criteria (e.g., the intensity of the first contact during the gesture
remains below the predetermined threshold intensity), the device replaces display (1510) of
the first user interface of the first application with display of the second user interface of the
first application (e.g., without displaying other user interfaces in the first application besides
the second user interface). For example, device 100 determines that contact 624 does not
include an intensity satisfying a deep press intensity threshold, and in response, displays user
interface 616, corresponding to a web browsing user interface displayed prior to display of
web browsing user interface 502, as illustrated in Figures 60-6P.
[00464]          In some embodiments, the second user interface representation corresponds
(1512) to a user interface in the first application that was displayed just prior to the display of
the first user interface of the first application.
[00465]          In some embodiments, the user interfaces in the first application are arranged
in a hierarchy, and the second user interface corresponds (1514) to a user interface in the
hierarchy that is adjacent to and higher than the first user interface.
[00466]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figure 15A have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that the
described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of ordinary
skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described herein.
Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with respect
to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 2400, and
2500) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 1500 described above with
respect to Figure 15A. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects, intensity
thresholds, focus selectors, animations described above with reference to method optionally
have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user interface objects,
intensity thresholds, focus selectors, animations described herein with reference to other
methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 2400, and 2500). For
brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[004671          Figures 24A-24F illustrate a flow diagram of a method 2400 of navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 2400 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
display is a touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the
                                                   132

display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In
some embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control
device that is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 2400
are performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or
streaming (e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication
with a remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California). Some operations in method 2400 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of
some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00468]         As described below, the method 2400 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when navigating
between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate between user interfaces faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00469]          The device displays (2402), on the display, a user interface for an application.
The device detects (2404) an edge input that includes detecting a change in a characteristic
intensity of a contact proximate to an edge of the touch-sensitive surface. In response to
detecting the edge input: in accordance with a determination that the edge input meets
system-gesture criteria, the device performs (2406) an operation that is independent of the
application   (e.g., detection of the system-gesture criteria overrides detection of the
application-gesture criteria; e.g., the operation that is independent of the application is
performed even when the application-gesture criteria is met simultaneously). The system
gesture criteria include intensity criteria. In some embodiments, the intensity criteria are met
when the characteristic intensity of the contact is above a first intensity threshold (e.g., a light
press "ITL" threshold). The system-gesture criteria include a location criterion that is met
when the intensity criteria for the contact are met while (a predetermined portion of) the
contact is within a first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a region that may
or may not include a portion of the touch-sensitive surface). The first region relative to the
touch-sensitive surface is determined based on one or more characteristics of the contact.
[004701         In some embodiments, the change in the characteristic intensity of the contact
proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is (2408) detected at a location that
corresponds to a respective operation in the application.
                                                  133

[004711         In some embodiments, in response to detecting the edge input: in accordance
with a determination that the edge input meets application-gesture criteria and does not meet
the system-gesture criteria, the device performs (2410) the respective operation in the
application instead of performing the operation that is independent of the application. In some
embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the edge input does not meet the
system-gesture criteria and does not meet the application-gesture criteria, the device forgoes
performing the operation that is independent of the application and the respective operation in
the application.
[00472]         In some embodiments, the intensity criteria is (2412) met when: the (detected)
characteristic intensity of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is
above a first intensity threshold; and the (detected) characteristic intensity of the contact
proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is below a second intensity threshold. In
some embodiments, detection of an increase in the characteristic intensity of the input above
the second intensity threshold invokes the multitasking U without requiring movement of the
contact.
[00473]         In some embodiments, the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface
has (2414) first boundaries (e.g., a first size and location) when the contact proximate to the
edge of the touch-sensitive surface has first spatial properties (e.g., is a large, oblong contact
characteristic of a flat finger input) and second boundaries, different from the first boundaries
(e.g., a second size and/or location) when the contact proximate to the edge of the touch
sensitive surface has second spatial properties (e.g., is a small, round contact characteristic of
a fingertip input). In some embodiments, the size and/or location of the region changes
dynamically with the size of the contact. In some embodiments, the contact is categorized and
one of a plurality of regions of different size and/or shape is selected based on the category of
the contact.
[00474]         In some embodiments, detecting the edge input includes (2416): detecting a
first portion of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface proximate to the edge of the touch
sensitive surface; and extrapolating, based on the first portion of the contact, a second portion
of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface that extends beyond the
edge of the touch sensitive surface, where the location of the contact, for the purposes of
satisfying the location criteria, is determined based on at least in part on the extrapolated
second portion of the contact (e.g., determining a location of the second portion of the contact
                                                  134

proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface with a maximum distance from the edge
of the touch-sensitive surface based on a projection of the location of the second portion of
the contact) (e.g., the contact is projected to the left and the location determination is based
on a left most portion of the contact).
[004751          In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the contact
proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has first spatial properties, the first
region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is (2418) located entirely off of the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., located in a region that starts outside of the touch-sensitive surface and
extends away from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface at which the first portion of the
first contact was detected, such that the determination of whether or not the contact is within
the first region is based on the extrapolated second portion of the contact that extends beyond
an edge of the touch-sensitive surface); and in accordance with a determination that the
contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has second spatial properties, the
first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface includes a first portion located on the touch
sensitive surface, proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface, and a second portion
located off of the touch-sensitive surface, extending away from the edge of the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., located in a region that starts within the touch-sensitive surface but
extends off of the touch-sensitive surface away from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface at
which the first portion of the first contact was detected, such that the determination of
whether or not the contact is within the first region can be based on either the extrapolated
second portion of the contact that extends beyond an edge of the touch-sensitive surface or on
a portion of the contact that is detected on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., if the contact is
detected entirely on the touch-sensitive surface)).
[004761          In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the contact
proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has first spatial properties, the first
region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is (2420) located entirely off of the touch
sensitive surface, extending away from a first boundary located at a fixed distance from the
edge of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., located in a region that starts outside of the touch
sensitive surface and extends away from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface at which the
first portion of the first contact was detected, such that the determination of whether or not
the contact is within the first region is based on the extrapolated second portion of the contact
that extends beyond an edge of the touch-sensitive surface); and in accordance with a
determination that the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has second
                                                   135

spatial properties, the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is located entirely off
of the touch-sensitive surface, extending away from a second boundary located at a second
fixed distance from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface, where the second fixed distance is
shorter than the first fixed distance (e.g., the boundary corresponding to a flat finger input is
closer to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface than the boundary corresponding to a
fingertip input).
[004771          In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that a portion (e.g.,
the second portion) of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface
extends beyond the edge of the touch-sensitive surface, the location of the contact is (2422) a
location of the (second) portion of the contact that extends beyond the edge of the touch
sensitive surface farthest from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface, based on a projection
of the location of the (second) portion of the contact that extends beyond the edge of the
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., when the contact extends beyond the touch-sensitive surface,
the location of the contact is defined as the point farthest from the edge.); and in accordance
with a determination that no portion of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch
sensitive surface extends beyond the edge of the touch-sensitive surface, the location of the
contact is a location of the contact closest to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
when the contact is entirely on the touch-sensitive surface, the location of the contact is
defined as the point closest to the edge. In some embodiments, the location of the contact is
defined as an average location of multiple points on the leading (e.g., left) edge of the
contact.). In some embodiments, the location of the contact is defined as a centroid of the
contact.
[004781          In some embodiments, the one or more characteristics, upon which the first
region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is based, include (2424) a size of the contact
proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a contact shape characteristic of a
fingertip input invokes a more stringent activation region than a contact shape characteristic
of a flat finger input).
[004791          In some embodiments, the size of the contact proximate to the edge of the
touch-sensitive surface is (2426) based on one or more of: a measure of the capacitance of the
contact, a shape of the contact, and an area of the contact (e.g., a flat thumb is indicated by a
larger signal total which is a normalized sum of the capacitance of the contact (e.g., how
solidly is contact being made with the touch-sensitive surface), a larger geomean radius
                                                    136

<((major axis)2+(minor axis)2) (e.g., which indicates the area of the contact and is larger for
more oblong contacts), and a larger minor radius (e.g., which indicates whether the finger is
laying flat on the touch-sensitive surface or not)).
[004801          In some embodiments, a difference in the first boundaries of the first region
and the second boundaries of the first region is (2428) greater near a central portion of the
edge of the touch-sensitive surface and is smaller near a distal portion of the edge of the
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the distance between a boundary of the first region and a
boundary of the second region decreases toward the corner of the touch-sensitive surface). In
some embodiments, the first boundaries of the first region and the second boundaries of the
first region coincide within a predetermined distance from the corner of the touch-sensitive
surface. In some embodiments, when the contact proximate to the edge of the screen has
second spatial properties: in accordance with a determination that the location of the contact
is proximate to a corner of the touch-sensitive surface, the first region has a second size that
is the same as the first size (e.g., the expanded activation region is not available at the corners
of the touch-sensitive surface to avoid accidental activation by the user's palm when reaching
across the device); and, in accordance with a determination that the location of the contact is
not proximate to a corner of the touch-sensitive surface, the first region has a second size that
is larger than the first size.
[004811          In some embodiments, the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface
has (2430) a first or second size (e.g., dependent upon the size of the contact) when the
contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is moving at a speed above a first
speed threshold (e.g., an input parameter detected above a given threshold includes input
parameters that are detected at the given threshold (e.g., "above" means "at or above")) and a
third size when the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is moving at a
speed below the first speed threshold. In some embodiments, the touch must start within a
first region (e.g., 5 mm) and the increase in the characteristic intensity above the intensity
threshold must be detected while the contact is moving above the speed threshold and within
a second region (e.g., 20 mm). In some embodiments (e.g., where the application associates
the location with an edge swipe operation), if the contact does not meet the system gesture
criteria, the device performs an application-specific operation (e.g., navigation within the
application).
                                                  137

[004821          In some embodiments, the system-gesture criteria further include (2432)
direction criteria specifying a predetermined direction of motion on the touch-sensitive
surface, where the direction criteria is met when the contact proximate to the edge of the
touch-sensitive surface moves in the predetermined direction on the touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., more vertical movement than horizontal movement).
[004831          In some embodiments, after initiating performance of the operation that is
independent of the application: the device detects (2434) movement, on the touch-sensitive
surface, of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface. In response to
detecting the movement of the contact: in accordance with a determination that the movement
of the contact is in the predetermined direction, the device continues performance of the
operation that is independent of the application; and in accordance with a determination that
the movement of the contact is in a direction other than the predetermined direction, the
device terminates performance of the operation that is independent of the application.
[00484]          In some embodiments, the system-gesture criteria further include (2436) a
failure condition that prevents the system-gesture criteria from being met when the contact
proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface moves outside of a second region (e.g.,
more than 20 mm away from the edge) relative to the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., on the
touch-sensitive surface) before the system-gesture criteria are met (e.g., the system-gesture
criteria cannot be met even if the contact moves back within the region). For example, prior
to initiating performance of the operation that is independent of the application: the device
detects movement, on the touch-sensitive surface, of the contact proximate to the edge of the
touch-sensitive surface; and, in response to detecting the movement of the contact, in
accordance with a determination that the contact moved outside a second region relative to
the touch sensitive surface, the device prevents the system-gesture criteria from being met
(e.g., the device prevents performance of the operation that is independent of the application).
While preventing the system gesture criteria from being met, the device detects termination
of the input (e.g., including liftoff of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive
surface); and, in response to detecting termination of the input, the device ceases to prevent
the system gesture-gesture criteria from being met.
[004851          In some embodiments, the system-gesture criteria include (2438) a
requirement (e.g., an additional requirement) that the characteristic intensity of the contact
proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface increases from an intensity below an
                                                    138

intensity threshold to an intensity at or above the intensity threshold while the contact is
within the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the system-gesture criteria
are not met when the characteristic intensity of the contact is increased above the intensity
threshold while the contact is outside of the first region and the contact is then moved into the
first region without decreasing the characteristic intensity of the contact below the intensity
threshold).
[004861          In some embodiments, the intensity criteria vary (2440) based on time (e.g.,
relative to first detection of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface or
detection of the change in intensity of the contact; e.g., 150 g addition to the intensity
threshold for first 100 ms after touchdown).
[004871          In some embodiments, the operation that is independent of the application
(e.g., the system operation) is (2442) an operation for navigation between applications of the
electronic device (e.g., a multitasking operation; e.g., switching to a different/prior
application or entering a multitasking user interface).
[004881          In some embodiments, the respective operation in the application is (2444) a
key press operation (e.g., a character insertion operation for a keyboard, or a keyboard
switching operation, or a shift key activation option).
[004891          In some embodiments, the respective operation in the application is (2446) a
page switching operation (e.g., next page, previous page, etc).
[00490]          In some embodiments, the respective operation in the application is (2448) for
navigation within a hierarchy associated with the application (e.g., between levels of an
application (e.g., song v. playlist) or history of an application (e.g., back and forward within a
web browsing history)).
[00491]          In some embodiments, the respective operation in the application is (2450) a
preview operation (e.g., peek and pop for a link or row in a list).
[00492]          In some embodiments, the respective operation in the application is (2452) a
menu display operation (e.g., quick action or contact menu).
[00493]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 24A-24F have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
                                                   139

herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500,
and 2500) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 2400 described above with
respect to Figures 24A-24F. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects,
intensity thresholds, focus selectors, animations described above with reference to method
optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user interface
objects, intensity thresholds, focus selectors, animations described herein with reference to
other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, and
2500). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00494]         Figures 25A-25H illustrate a flow diagram of a method 2500 of navigating
between user interfaces in accordance with some embodiments. The method 2500 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
display is a touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or integrated with the
display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. In
some embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface is part of a track pad or a remote control
device that is separate from the display. In some embodiments, the operations in method 2500
are performed by an electronic device configured for management, playback, and/or
streaming (e.g., from an external server) of audio and/or visual files that is in communication
with a remote control and a display (e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California). Some operations in method 2500 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of
some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00495]         As described below, the method 2500 provides an intuitive way to navigate
between user interfaces. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when navigating
between user interfaces, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate between user interfaces faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00496]          The device displays (2502), on the display, a first view of a first application.
While displaying the first view, the device detects (2504) a first portion of a first input that
includes detecting a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In response to detecting the
first portion of the first input, in accordance with a determination that the first portion of the
first input meets application-switching criteria (e.g., including intensity criteria (e.g., "peek"
                                                   140

intensity) and a location criterion (e.g., proximate to the edge of the touch sensitive surface)
or an intensity-based edge swipe heuristic such as that described above with reference to
method 2400), the device concurrently displays (2506), on the display, portions of a plurality
of application views including the first application view and a second application view (and,
optionally, ceasing to display another portion of the first application view (e.g., by sliding a
portion of the first application view off of the display)). While concurrently displaying the
portions of the plurality of application views, the device detects (2508) a second portion of
the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact. In response to detecting the second
portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact: in accordance with a
determination that the second portion of the first input meets first-view display criteria, where
the first-view display criteria include a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact
is detected in a first region of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the portion proximate to the
left edge of the touch sensitive surface), the device ceases (2510) to display the portion of the
second application view and displays the (entire) first application view on the display; and in
accordance with a determination that the second portion of the first input meets multi-view
display criteria, where the multi-view display criteria includes a criterion that is met when the
liftoff of the first contact is detected in a second region of the touch-sensitive surface that is
different from the first region of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the middle portion of the
touch sensitive surface), the device maintains concurrent display of at least a portion of the
first application view and at least a portion of the second application view on the display after
detecting the liftoff of the first contact.
[004971           In some embodiments, in response to detecting the second portion of the first
input that includes liftoff of the first contact: in accordance with a determination that the
second portion of the first input meets second-view display criteria, where the second-view
display criteria includes a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected
in a third region of the touch-sensitive surface that is different from the first region of the
touch-sensitive surface and the second region of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the portion
proximate to the right edge of the touch sensitive surface), the device ceases (2512) to display
the first application view and displays the (entire) second application view on the display.
[00498]           In some embodiments, after detecting the first portion of the first input that
includes detecting the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface, and before detecting the
second portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact: the device detects
(2514) movement of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In response to detecting
                                                     141

the movement of the first contact, in accordance with a determination that the first contact
moves into the second region of the touch-sensitive surface, the device decreases respective
sizes of the plurality of application views including the first application view and the second
application view. In some embodiments, the sizes of the application views are decreased
dynamically with continued movement of the contact across the second region of the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., there is a correlation between how far across the second region the
contact has traveled and the size of the application views). In some embodiments, decreasing
the size of the application views when the contact is in the second region of the touch
sensitive surface indicates to the user that lift-off of the contact in the second region will
invoke the multitasking user interface. In some embodiments, the portion of the second
application view contracts and moves in a direction of the movement of the contact in the
second region (e.g., simulating dynamic contraction and sliding of the application "card"
away from the "stack"). In some embodiments, a distance between two or more of the
application views changes depending on movement of the first contact (e.g., application
views other than the top application view move apart in addition to decreasing in size as the
first contact moves across the display.
[00499]         In some embodiments, while decreasing respective sizes of the plurality of
application views including the first application view and the second application view: the
device detects (2516) continued movement of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface.
In response to detecting the continued movement of the first contact, in accordance with a
determination that the first contact moves into the third region of the touch-sensitive surface,
the device increases respective sizes of the plurality of application views including the first
application view and the second application view. In some embodiments, the sizes of the
application views are increased dynamically with continued movement of the contact across
the third region of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., there is a correlation between how far
across the third region the contact has traveled and the size of the application views). In some
embodiments, increasing the size of the application views when the contact is in the third
region of the touch-sensitive surface indicates to the user that lift-off of the contact in the
third region will activate the application associated with the second application view (e.g.,
switch to the previous application). In some embodiments, the portion of the second
application view expands and moves in a direction opposite movement of the contact in the
third region (e.g., simulating dynamic expansion of the second application view into the user
interface for the second application). In some embodiments, a distance between two or more
                                                   142

of the application views changes depending on movement of the first contact (e.g.,
application views other than the top application view move together in addition to increasing
in size as the first contact continues to move across the display.
[00500]          In some embodiments, after detecting the first portion of the first input that
includes detecting a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface, and before detecting the
second portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact: the device detects
(2518) movement of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In response to detecting
the movement of the first contact, in accordance with a determination that the first contact
crosses a boundary between two respective regions on the touch-sensitive surface, the device
provides a tactile output. In some embodiments, the device provides haptic feedback when
the contact moves into the third region of the touch-sensitive surface from the second region
of the touch-sensitive region, but not when the contact moves back from the third region to
the second region.
[00501]          In some embodiments, display of respective portions of the plurality of
application views are (2520) partially overlapping, including that the displayed portion of the
first application view partially overlaps the displayed portion of the second application view.
[00502]          In some embodiments, the first application view and the second application
view are (2522) views of the same application (e.g., web page tabs).
[00503]          In some embodiments, the first application view is (2524) a view of a first
application and the second application view is a view of a second application that is different
from the first application.
[00504]          In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the second
portion of the first input meets multi-view display criteria, where the multi-view display
criteria include a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a
second region of the touch-sensitive surface that is different from the first region of the
touch-sensitive surface, maintaining concurrent display of at least a portion of the first
application view and at least a portion of the second application view on the display includes
(2526): entering a user interface selection mode; and displaying a plurality of user interface
representations in a stack on the display, including the at least a portion of the first
application view and at least a portion of the second application view, where: at least a first
user interface representation, corresponding to the at least a portion of the second application
view, and at least a second user interface representation, corresponding to the at least a
                                                   143

portion of the first application view and disposed above the first user interface representation
in the stack, are visible on the display, the second user interface representation is offset from
the first user interface representation in a first direction (e.g., laterally offset to the right on
the display), and the second user interface representation partially exposes the first user
interface representation. In some embodiments, representations in the stack are partially
spread out in one direction on the display (e.g., to the right, as shown in Figures 5P and 22C).
In some embodiments, at a given time, information (e.g., an icon, title, and content for the
corresponding user interface) for a predetermined number of the representations (e.g., 2, 3, 4,
or 5 representations) in the stack is visible, while the rest of the representations in the stack
are either off-screen or are beneath the representations that include visible information. In
some embodiments, the representations that are beneath the representations that include
visible information are stacked together so closely that no information is displayed for these
representations. In some embodiments, the representations that are beneath the
representations that include visible information are stylistic representations, such as just
generic edges 503, as shown in Figure 5P.
[00505]          In some embodiments, while in the user interface selection mode: the device
detects (2528) a second input including a drag gesture by a second contact at a location on the
touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a location of the first user interface representation
on the display, the second contact moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction
that corresponds to the first direction on the display; and, while the second contact is at a
location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the location of the first user
interface representation on the display and moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a
direction that corresponds to the first direction on the display: the device moves the first user
interface representation in the first direction on the display at a first speed in accordance with
a speed of the second contact on the touch-sensitive surface; and the device moves the second
user interface representation, disposed above the first user interface representation, in the first
direction at a second speed greater than the first speed. For example, with respect to moving
the first user interface representation, on a touch-sensitive display, the card or other
representation under the finger contact moves with the same speed as the finger contact; and
on a display coupled to a track pad, the card or other representation at the location
corresponding to the location of the contact moves at an onscreen speed that corresponds to
(or is based on) the speed of the finger contact on the track pad. In some embodiments, a
focus selector is shown on the display to indicate the onscreen location that corresponds to
                                                    144

the location of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the focus
selector may be represented by a cursor, a movable icon, or visual differentiators that separate
an onscreen object (e.g., a user interface representation) from its peers that do not have the
focus. In another example, with respect to moving the second user interface representation, in
some embodiments, the first direction is rightward. In some embodiments, the first speed is
the same speed as the current speed of the contact. In some embodiments, the movement of
the first user interface representation creates a visual effect that the finger contact is grabbing
and dragging the first user interface representation. At the same time, the second user
interface representation is moving faster than the first user interface representation. This
faster movement of the second user interface representation creates the visual effect that as
the second user interface representation moves in the first direction towards the edge of the
display, an increasingly larger portion of the first user interface representation is revealed
from underneath the second user interface representation. In combination, these two
concurrent movements enable a user to see more of the first user interface representation
before deciding whether to select and display the corresponding first user interface.
[005061          In some embodiments, while in the user interface selection mode, including
display of at least two of the plurality of user interface representations in the stack, the device
detects (2530) a selection input (e.g., a tap gesture at a location on the touch-sensitive surface
that corresponds to a location on a user interface representation) directed to one of the at least
two user interface representations in the stack. In response to detecting the selection input:
the device ceases to display the stack, and displays a user interface that corresponds to the
selected one of the at least two user interface representations. In some embodiments, the user
interface that corresponds to the selected user interface representation is displayed without
displaying any user interfaces that correspond to other user interface representations in the
stack. In some embodiments, the display of the user interface that corresponds to the selected
user interface representation replaces the display of the stack.
[005071          In some embodiments, while displaying, in the stack, at least the first user
interface representation and the second user interface representation above the first user
interface representation: the device detects (2532) a deletion input directed to the first user
interface representation (e.g., an upward drag gesture at a location on the touch-sensitive
surface that corresponds to a location on the first user interface representation). In response to
detecting the deletion input directed to the first user interface representation: the device
removes the first user interface representation from a first position in the stack. In some
                                                   145

embodiments, when swiping to close, the adjacent application views move together in z space
(e.g., the application views behind the application view that is being manipulated moves
toward the current application view). If movement is in the opposite direction, the adjacent
application views move away from each other in z space (e.g., the application views behind
the application view that is being manipulated moves away the current application view).
[00508]          In some embodiments, entering a user interface selection mode includes
(2534): animating a decrease in size of the first application view when transitioning into the
second user interface representation; and animating a decrease in size of the second
application view when transitioning into the first user interface representation. For example,
in the "peek" stage, the UI cards are referred to as application views and in the "pop" stage
(e.g., multitasking user interface), the UI cards are referred to as user interface
representations. In some embodiments, the device indicates to the user that it has entered into
the multitasking user interface by reducing the size of the application views (e.g., which
become user interface representations).
[00509]          In some embodiments, the application-switching criteria include (2536)
intensity criteria. In some embodiments, the intensity criteria are met when the characteristic
intensity of the contact is above a first intensity threshold. In some embodiments, the system
gesture criteria include a location criterion that is met when the intensity criteria for the
contact are met while the contact is within a first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., a region that may or may not include a portion of the touch-sensitive surface, such as
those described above with reference to method 2400).
[00510]          In some embodiments, the size of the first region relative to the touch
sensitive surface is (2538) determined based on one or more characteristics of the contact. In
some embodiments, the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface has a first size
when the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has first spatial
properties (e.g., is a large, oblong contact characteristic of a flat finger input) and a second
size when the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has second spatial
properties (e.g., is a small, round contact characteristic of a fingertip input). In some
embodiments, the size of the region changes dynamically with the size of the contact. In
some embodiments, the contact is categorized and one of a plurality of discretely sized
regions is selected.
                                                   146

[00511]          In some embodiments, the intensity criteria of the application-switching
criteria are (2540) met when: the (detected) characteristic intensity of the first contact is
above a first intensity threshold (e.g., a peek/preview intensity threshold); and the (detected)
characteristic intensity of the first contact is below a second intensity threshold (e.g., a
pop/commit intensity threshold).
[00512]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the first portion of the first
input, in accordance with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets the
application-switching criteria, the device provides (2542) tactile output.
[005131          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the first portion of the first
input, in accordance with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets preview
criteria: the device moves (2544) the first view of the first application partially off of the
display (e.g., sliding the active user interface to the right with or without decreasing the size
of the user interface) and displays a portion of the second application view at a location of the
display from which the first view of the first application was displaced (e.g., the active user
interface slides over, revealing the edge of the previously active user interface from under the
currently active user interface).
[00514]          In some embodiments, the preview criteria includes (2546): a location
criterion that is met while the contact is within the first region relative to the touch-sensitive
surface, and an intensity criteria that is met when the characteristic intensity of the contact is
above a preview intensity threshold (e.g., "hint" intensity) and below an application
switching intensity threshold (e.g., "peek" intensity/first intensity threshold).
[00515]          In some embodiments, the application-switching criteria include (2548) a
criterion that is met when an intensity of the first contact increases above a first intensity
threshold (e.g., a peek/preview intensity threshold); maintaining concurrent display of at least
a portion of the first application view and at least a portion of the second application view on
the display after detecting the liftoff of the first contact includes displaying a multitasking
user interface; and in response to detecting the first portion of the first input, in accordance
with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets multitasking criteria that
include a criterion that is met when an intensity of the first contact increases above a second
intensity threshold that is greater than the first intensity threshold, the device displays the
multitasking user interface. For example, the multitasking user interface can either be
displayed by meeting the application-switching criteria, which can be met with a contact
                                                     147

having an intensity above the first intensity threshold and below the second intensity
threshold and then moving the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to a location that
corresponds to a middle portion of the display, or by meeting the multitasking criteria which
can be met with a contact having an intensity above the second intensity threshold.
[005161          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the first portion of the first
input, in accordance with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets
multitasking criteria (e.g., including high intensity criteria (e.g., "pop" intensity) and
optionally a location criterion (e.g., proximate to the edge of the touch sensitive surface, in
the first region, or in the second region)): the device enters (2550) a user interface selection
mode, and displays a plurality of user interface representation in a stack on the display,
including the at least a portion of the first application view and at least a portion of the second
application view. In some embodiments, at least a first user interface representation,
corresponding to the at least a portion of the second application view, and at least a second
user interface representation, corresponding to the at least a portion of the first application
view and disposed above the first user interface representation in the stack, are visible on the
display, the second user interface representation is offset from the first user interface
representation in a first direction (e.g., laterally offset to the right on the display), and the
second user interface representation partially exposes the first user interface representation. In
some embodiments, representations in the stack are partially spread out in one direction on
the display (e.g., to the right, as shown in Figures 5P and 23G). In some embodiments, at a
given time, information (e.g., an icon, title, and content for the corresponding user interface)
for a predetermined number of the representations (e.g., 2, 3, 4, or 5 representations) in the
stack is visible, while the rest of the representations in the stack are either off-screen or are
beneath the representations that include visible information. In some embodiments, the
representations that are beneath the representations that include visible information are
stacked together so closely that no information is displayed for these representations. In some
embodiments, the representations that are beneath the representations that include visible
information are stylistic representations, such as just generic edges 503, as shown in Figure
5E.
[005171          In some embodiments, the multitasking criteria include (2552) intensity
criteria that are met when the (detected) characteristic intensity of the first contact is above
the second intensity threshold.
                                                     148

[005181          In some embodiments, the multitasking criteria include (2554) a location
criterion that is met when the multitasking intensity criteria are met while the contact is
within the first region of the touch-sensitive surface.
[00519]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 25A-25H have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500,
and 2400) are also applicable in an analogous manner to method 2500 described above with
respect to Figures 25A-25H. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects,
intensity thresholds, focus selectors, animations described above with reference to method
optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user interface
objects, intensity thresholds, focus selectors, animations described herein with reference to
other methods described herein (e.g., methods 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, and
2400). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00520]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 16 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1600 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 16 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00521]          As shown in Figure 16, an electronic device 1600 includes a display unit 1602
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1604 configured to
receive contacts, optionally one or more sensor units 1606 configured to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit 1604; and a processing unit 1608 coupled with
the display unit 1602, the touch-sensitive surface unit 1604 and the optional one or more
sensor units 1606. In some embodiments, the processing unit 1608 includes: a display
enabling unit 1610, a detecting unit 1612, a moving unit 1614, an entering unit 1616, a
                                                  149

revealing unit 618, a determining unit, an applying unit 520, an inserting unit 1624, and a
removing unit 1626.
[00522]          The processing unit 1610 is configured to: enable display of a plurality of user
interface representations in a stack on the display unit 1602 (e.g., with the display enabling
unit 1610), wherein: at least a first user interface representation and a second user interface
representation disposed above the first user interface representation in the stack, are visible
on the display unit 1602, the second user interface representation is offset from the first user
interface representation in a first direction, and the second user interface representation
partially exposes the first user interface representation; detect a first drag gesture by a first
contact at a location on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1604 that corresponds to a location of
the first user interface representation on the display unit 1602 (e.g., with detecting unit 1612),
the first contact moving across the touch-sensitive surface unit 1604 in a direction that
corresponds to the first direction on the display unit 1602; and, while the first contact is at a
location on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1604 that corresponds to the location of the first
user interface representation on the display unit 1602 and moving across the touch-sensitive
surface unit 1604 in a direction that corresponds to the first direction on the display unit:
move the first user interface representation in the first direction on the display unit 1602 at a
first speed in accordance with a speed of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit
 1604 (e.g., with the moving unit 1604); and move the second user interface representation,
disposed above the first user interface representation, in the first direction at a second speed
greater than the first speed (e.g., with the moving unit 1614).
[00523]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 17 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1700 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 17 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00524]          As shown in Figure 17, an electronic device 1700 includes a display unit 1702
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1704 configured to
                                                   150

receive contacts, one or more sensor units 1706 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1704; and a processing unit 1708 coupled with the display
unit 1702, the touch-sensitive surface unit 1704 and the one or more sensor units 1706. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 1708 includes: a display enabling unit 1710, a
detecting unit 1712, a moving unit 1714, an entering unit 1716, and an operation performing
unit 1718.
[00525]          The processing unit 1710 is configured to: enable display a first user interface
on the display unit 1702 (e.g., with display enabling unit 1710); while displaying the first user
interface on the display unit 1702, detect an input by a first contact on the touch-sensitive
surface unit 1704 (e.g., with detecting unit 1712); while detecting the input by the first
contact, enable display of a first user interface representation and at least a second user
interface representation on the display unit 1702 (e.g., with the display enabling unit 1710);
while displaying the first user interface representation and at least the second user interface
representation on the display unit 1702, detect termination of the input by the first contact
(e.g., with the detecting unit 1712); and, in response to detecting termination of the input by
the first contact: in accordance with a determination that the first contact had a characteristic
intensity during the input that was below a predetermined intensity threshold and the first
contact moved during the input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface 1704 that
corresponds to a predefined direction on the display 1702, enable display of a second user
interface that corresponds to the second user interface representation (e.g., with the display
enabling unit 1710); and in accordance with a determination that the first contact had a
characteristic intensity during the input that was below the predetermined intensity threshold
and the first contact did not move during the input in a direction across the touch-sensitive
surface unit 1704 that corresponds to the predefined direction on the display unit 1702,
enable redisplay of the first user interface (e.g., with display enabling unit 1710).
[00526]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 18 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1800 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 18 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
                                                    151

Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[005271          As shown in Figure 18, an electronic device 1800 includes a display unit 1802
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1804 configured to
receive contacts, one or more sensor units 1806 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1804; and a processing unit 1808 coupled with the display
unit 1802, the touch-sensitive surface unit 1804 and the one or more sensor units 1806. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 1808 includes: a display enabling unit 1810, a
detecting unit 1812, a moving unit 1814, an increasing unit 1816, a changing unit 1818, and a
varying unit 1820.
[005281          The processing unit 1810 is configured to: enable display of a first user
interface on the display unit (e.g., with display enabling unit 1810; while enabling display of
the first user interface on the display unit, detect, on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1804, an
input by a first contact that includes a period of increasing intensity of the first contact (e.g.,
with the detecting unit 1812); in response to detecting the input by the first contact that
includes the period of increasing intensity of the first contact: enable display of a first user
interface representation for the first user interface and a second user interface representation
for a second user interface on the display unit 1802 (e.g., with the display enabling unit
 1810), wherein the first user interface representation is displayed over the second user
interface representation and partially exposes the second user interface representation; while
enabling display of the first user interface representation and the second user interface
representation on the display unit 1802, detect that, during the period of increasing intensity
of the first contact, the intensity of the first contact meets one or more predetermined
intensity criteria (e.g., with the detecting unit 1812); in response to detecting that the intensity
of the first contact meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria: cease to enable
display of the first user interface representation and the second user interface representation
on the display unit 1802 (e.g., with the display enabling unit 1810); and enable display of the
second user interface on the display unit 1802 (e.g., with display enabling unit 1810).
[00529]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 19 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1900 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
                                                     152

the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 19 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[005301          As shown in Figure 19, an electronic device 1900 includes a display unit 1902
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1904 configured to
receive contacts, one or more sensor units 1906 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1904; and a processing unit 1908 coupled with the display
unit 1902, the touch-sensitive surface unit 1904 and the one or more sensor units 1906. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 1908 includes: a display enabling unit 1910, a
detecting unit 1912, a moving unit 1914, an increasing unit 1916, a decreasing unit 1918, and
an entering unit 1920.
[00531]          The processing unit 1910 is configured to: enable display of a plurality of user
interface representations in a stack on the display unit 1902 (e.g., with the display enabling
unit 1910), wherein: at least a first user interface representation, a second user interface
representation, and a third user interface representation are visible on the display unit 1902,
the first user interface representation is laterally offset from the second user interface
representation in a first direction and partially exposes the second user interface
representation, and the second user interface representation is laterally offset from the third
user interface representation in the first direction and partially exposes the third user interface
representation; detect an input by a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1904 at a
location that corresponds to the second user interface representation on the display unit 1902
(e.g., with detecting unit 1922); and, in accordance with detecting an increase in intensity of
the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1904 at the location that corresponds to
the second user interface representation on the display unit 1902 (e.g., with the detecting unit
 1912), increase an area of the second user interface representation that is exposed from
behind the first user interface representation by increasing the lateral offset between the first
user interface representation and the second user interface representation (e.g., with the
increasing unit 1916).
[00532]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 20 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 2000 configured in accordance with the principles of the
                                                    153

various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 20 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[005331          As shown in Figure 20, an electronic device 2000 includes a display unit 2002
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 2004 configured to
receive contacts, optionally one or more sensor units 2006 configured to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit 2004; and a processing unit 2008 coupled with
the display unit 2002, the touch-sensitive surface unit 2004 and the optional one or more
sensor units 2006. In some embodiments, the processing unit 2008 includes: a display
enabling unit 2010, a detecting unit 2012, a moving unit 2014, and a revealing unit 2016.
[00534]          The processing unit 2010 is configured to: enable display of a plurality of user
interface representations in a stack on the display unit 2002 (e.g., with the display enabling
unit 2010), wherein: at least a first user interface representation, a second user interface
representation, and a third user interface representation are visible on the display unit 2002,
the second user interface representation is laterally offset from the first user interface
representation in a first direction and partially exposes the first user interface representation,
and the third user interface representation is laterally offset from the second user interface
representation in the first direction and partially exposes the second user interface
representation; detect a drag gesture by a first contact that moves across the touch-sensitive
surface unit 2004 (e.g., with the detecting unit 2012), wherein movement of the drag gesture
by the first contact corresponds to movement across one or more of the plurality of user
interface representations in the stack; and, during the drag gesture, when the first contact
moves over a location on the touch-sensitive surface unit 2004 that corresponds to the first
user interface representation on the display unit 2002, reveal more of the first user interface
representation from behind the second user interface representation on the display unit (e.g.,
with the revealing unit 2016).
[00535]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 21 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 2100 configured in accordance with the principles of the
                                                   154

various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 21 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[005361          As shown in Figure 21, an electronic device 2100 includes a display unit 1602
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 2104 configured to
receive contacts, one or more sensor units 2106 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 2104; and a processing unit 2108 coupled with the display
unit 2102, the touch-sensitive surface unit 2104 and the one or more sensor units 2106. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 2108 includes: a display enabling unit 2110 and a
detecting unit 2112.
[005371          The processing unit 2110 is configured to: enable display of a first user
interface of a first application on the display unit 2102 (e.g., with the display enabling unit
2110), the first user interface including a backwards navigation control; while displaying the
first user interface of the first application on the display unit 2102, detect a gesture by a first
contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 2104 at a location that corresponds to the
backwards navigation control on the display unit 2102 (e.g., with the detecting unit 2112; in
response to detecting the gesture by the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 2104
at a location that corresponds to the backwards navigation control: in accordance with a
determination that the gesture by the first contact is a gesture with an intensity of the first
contact that meets one or more predetermined intensity criteria, replace display of the first
user interface of the first application with display of a plurality of representations of user
interfaces of the first application (e.g., with the display enabling unit 2110), including a
representation of the first user interface and a representation of a second user interface; and,
in accordance with a determination that the gesture by the first contact is a gesture with an
intensity of the first contact that does not meet the one or more predetermined intensity
criteria, replace display of the first user interface of the first application with display of the
second user interface of the first application (e.g., using display enabling unit 2110).
                                                    155

[005381          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 26 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 2600 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 26 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[005391          As shown in Figure 26, an electronic device includes a display unit 2602
configured to display content items; a touch-sensitive surface unit 2604 configured to receive
user inputs; one or more sensor units 2606 configured to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface unit 2604; and a processing unit 2608 coupled to the display unit
2602, the touch-sensitive surface unit 2604 and the one or more sensor units 2606. In some
embodiments, the processing unit 2608 includes a display enabling unit 2610, a detecting unit
2612, and a determining unit 2614. In some embodiments, the processing unit 7$08 is
configured to: enable display (e.g., with display enabling unit 2610), on the display unit (e.g.,
display unit 2602), of a user interface for an application; detect (e.g., with detecting unit
2612) an edge input that includes detecting a change in a characteristic intensity of a contact
proximate to an edge of the touch-sensitive surface; and, in response to detecting the edge
input: in accordance with a determination (e.g., with determining unit 2614) that the edge
input meets system-gesture criteria, perform an operation that is independent of the
application, where: the system-gesture criteria include intensity criteria; the system-gesture
criteria include a location criterion that is met when the intensity criteria for the contact are
met while the contact is within a first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface; and the
first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface unit 2604 is determined based on one or
more characteristics of the contact.
[00540]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 27 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 2700 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 27 are, optionally, combined or
                                                   156

separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00541]           As shown in Figure 27, an electronic device includes a display unit 2702
configured to display content items; a touch-sensitive surface unit 2704 configured to receive
user inputs; one or more sensor units 2706 configured to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface unit 2704; and a processing unit 2708 coupled to the display unit
2702, the touch-sensitive surface unit 2704 and the one or more sensor units 2706. In some
embodiments, the processing unit 2708 includes a display enabling unit 2710, a detecting unit
2712, and a determining unit 9$14. In some embodiments, the processing unit 2708 is
configured to: enable display (e.g., with display enabling unit 2710), on the display unit (e.g.,
display unit 2702), of a first view of a first application; while enabling display of the first
view, detect (e.g., with detecting unit 2712) a first portion of a first input that includes
detecting a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 2704; in response to detecting the
first portion of the first input, in accordance with a determination (e.g., with determining unit
2714) that the first portion of the first input meets application-switching criteria, enable
concurrent display (e.g., with display enabling unit 2710), on the display unit, of portions of a
plurality of application views including the first application view and a second application
view; while enabling concurrent display of the portions of the plurality of application views,
detect (e.g., with detecting unit 2712) a second portion of the first input that includes liftoff of
the first contact; and in response to detecting the second portion of the first input that includes
liftoff of the first contact: in accordance with a determination (e.g., with determining unit
2714) that the second portion of the first input meets first-view display criteria, where the
first-view display criteria include a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is
detected in a first region of the touch-sensitive surface unit 2704, cease to enable display
(e.g., with display enable unit 2710) of the portion of the second application view and enable
display (e.g., with display enable unit 2710) of the first application view on the display unit;
and in accordance with a determination (e.g., with determining unit 2714) that the second
portion of the first input meets multi-view display criteria, where the multi-view display
criteria includes a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a
second region of the touch-sensitive surface unit 2704 that is different from the first region of
the touch-sensitive surface unit 2704, maintain concurrent display (e.g., with display enable
                                                   157

unit 2710) of at least a portion of the first application view and at least a portion of the second
application view on the display after detecting the liftoff of the first contact.
[00542]          The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
[00543]          The operations described above with reference to Figures 10A-10H, 11 A-1 1E,
 12A-12E, 13A-13D, 14A-14C, and 15 are, optionally, implemented by components depicted
in Figures lA-1B or Figures 16-21. For example, user interface entering operations 1006,
 1110, and 1312, visual effect applying operations 1018, 1024, 1048, 1208, 1212, 1224, 1320,
 1322, 1350, 1408, 1410, 1414, and 1416, detection operations 1030, 1052, 1062, 1080, 1084,
 1091,1092,1096,1104,1116,1126,1130,1138,1142,1146,1204,1210,1220,1232,1236,
 1244, 1248, 1308, 1318, 1328, 1340, 1346, 1350, 1404, 1418, 1426, and 1504, user interface
representation insertion operation 1082, user interface representation removal operation 1088,
user interface representation moving operations 1034, 1036, 1050, 1056, 1058, 1060, 1068,
 1070, 1072, 1098, 1150, 1152, 1324, 1326, 1332, 1334, 1336, and 1338, and content
dependent execution operation 1140, are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170,
event recognizer 180, and event handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a
contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event
information to application 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1
compares the event information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a
first contact at a first location on the touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation of the
device) corresponds to a predefined event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a
user interface, or rotation of the device from one orientation to another. When a respective
predefined event or sub-event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler
 190 associated with the detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses
or calls data updater 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state 192. In
some embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what
is displayed by the application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill
in the art how other processes can be implemented based on the components depicted in
Figures lA-1B.
                                                    158

[005441         The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with
reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not
intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many
modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For example, the
methods described herein are also applicable in an analogous manner to electronic devices
configured for management, playback, and/or streaming (e.g., from an external server) of
audio and/or visual content that are in communication with a remote control and a display
(e.g., Apple TV from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California). For such devices, inputs are
optionally received that correspond to gestures on a touch-sensitive surface of the remote
control, voice inputs to the remote control, and/or activation of buttons on the remote control,
rather than having the touch-sensitive surface, audio input device (e.g., a microphone), and/or
buttons on the device itself. For such devices, data is optionally provided to the display rather
than displayed by the device itself. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to
best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications, to thereby enable
others skilled in the art to best use the invention and various described embodiments with
various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.
                                                   159

CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
 1.      A method for navigating between user interfaces, comprising:
         at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display, and one or more sensors that are
configured to detect intensities of contacts with the touch-sensitive display:
                 displaying, on the touch-sensitive display, a user interface of an application;
                 while displaying the user interface of the application, detecting an input that
         includes detecting a contact at a first location on the touch-sensitive display, wherein
         the contact remains stationary at the first location prior to lift-off of the first contact,
         and wherein the touch-sensitive display includes an open-application-selection region;
         and,
                 in response to detecting the input on the touch-sensitive display:
                         in accordance with a determination that the input occurred inside of the
open-application-selection region and that the input meets intensity criteria, including a
criterion that is met when the input includes an increase in intensity of the contact above a
first intensity threshold, displaying an open-application-selection user interface that includes
representations of a plurality of open applications, including one or more representations of
open applications that were not displayed prior to detecting the input on the touch-sensitive
display; and
                         in accordance with a determination that the input occurred inside of the
open-application-selection region and that the input does not meet the intensity criteria,
performing a first operation within the application based on the input, wherein performing the
first operation includes changing the user interface of the application without displaying the
open-application-selection user interface.
2.       The method of claim 1, including:
         in accordance with a determination that the input occurred outside of the
open-application-selection region, performing an operation within the application based on
the input.
3.       The method of any of the previous claims, wherein the open-application-selection
user interface includes snapshots of open applications displayed in an overlapping 3D
arrangement.
                                                  160

4.       The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the open-application-selection user
interface includes snapshots of open applications.
5.       The method of any of the previous claims, wherein the open-application-selection
region is on a portion of the display that, prior to detecting the input, includes the user
interface of the application.
6.       The method of any of the previous claims, including:
         while displaying the open-application-selection user interface, detecting a swipe
gesture;
         in accordance with a determination that the swipe gesture is an upward swipe, closing
a first application and removing a representation of the first application from the open
application-selection user interface; and,
         in accordance with a determination that the swipe gesture is a right to left swipe
gesture, moving the representations of the plurality of open applications in accordance with
the swipe gesture.
7.       The method of any of the previous claims, wherein performing a first operation within
the application includes performing a page switching operation within the application.
8.       The method of any of the previous claims, wherein performing a first operation within
the application includes navigating within a hierarchy associated with the application.
9.       The method of any of the previous claims, wherein performing a first operation within
the application includes performing a preview operation within the application.
 10.     The method of any of the previous claims, wherein performing a first operation within
the application includes performing a menu-display operation within the application.
 11.     A computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more
programs comprising instructions which, when executed by an electronic device with a
touch-sensitive display and one or more sensors to detect intensities of contacts with the
touch-sensitive display, cause the electronic device to perform any of the methods of claims
 1-10.
                                                 161

12.     An electronic device, comprising:
        a touch-sensitive display;
        one or more sensors to detect intensities of contacts with the touch-sensitive display;
        one or more processors;
        memory; and
        one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory
and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for performing any of the methods of claims 1-10.
                                                162

<removed-date>
                              Memory 102                   Portable Multifunction Device 100
                                                      126 Applications (continued)                       136
              Operating System
                                                      128                                                148
              Communication Module                          Calendar Module
                                                      130                                                149
              Contact/Motion Module                         Widget Modules
                                                      132                                                149-1
              Graphics Module                                   Weather Widget(s)
                                                      133                                                149-2
              Haptic Feedback Module                            Stocks Widget
                                                      134                                                149-3
              Text Input Module                                 Calculator Widget
                                                      135                                                149-4
<removed-apn>
              GPS Module                              136       Alarm Clock Widget
                                                                                                         149-5
              Applications                                      Dictionary Widget
                                                      137
                Contacts Module
                                                      138                                                149-6
                Telephone Module                                    User-Created Widget(s)
                                                      139                                                150
                Video Conference Module                          Widget Creator Module
                                                      140                                                151
                E-mail Client Module                             Search Module
                                                      141                                                155
                Instant Messaging Module                         Online Video Module
                                                      142
                Workout Support Module
                                                      143
                Camera Module                                  Device/Global Internal State              157
                                                      144
                Image Management Module
                                                      152           Power         162
                Video & Music Player Module                         System
                                                      153
                Notes Module
                Map Module                             154          External      124
                                                       147            Port
                Browser Module
                                                    118                  103     RF Circuitry
                                        103                       103                                 Speaker
                                                                                    108
                 104                                                                                      111
                                                                           103    Audio
                                 Controller
                122                                                              Circuitry
                                                                                   110
                                              103      Peripherals         103                    Microphone
                                                        Interface                Proximity            113
                                                                                  Sensor           166
                                                                          103
                120             Processor(s)
                                                                                 Accelerometer(s)
                                                                                       168
                 106                                              103
                                                     I/O Subsystem
                                   Optical             Intensity            Haptic            Other Input
                 Display
                                  sensor(s)            sensor(s)          Feedback            Controller(s)
               Controller 156
                                Controller 158       Controller 159      Controller 161          160
                        103                103                103                  103                   103
                  Touch-                                Contact
                                   Optical                               Tactile Output      Other Input or
                 Sensitive                             Intensity
                                  Sensor(s)                              Generator(s)           Control
                  Display                              Sensor(s)
                                    164                                        167           Devices 116
                System 112                                165
                                                 Figure 1A
                                                       1/146

<removed-date>
                                                  Event Sorter
                                                     170
                                                                         171
                                          Event Monitor
                                          Hit View Determination         172
                                          Module
<removed-apn>
                                          Active Event Recognizer        173
                                          Determination Module
                                                                         174
                                          Event Dispatcher Module
               Application 136-1
              Application
                Application View   191
                                              Event Recognizer 180
                Application View   191                                   Event Recognizer     180
                                                                          Event Receiver      182
                Event Handler      190        Event Recognizer 180
                                                                          Event Comparator 184
                  Data Updater     176        Event Data           179
                                                                            Event Definitions 186
                  Object Updater 177
                                                                               Event 1      187-1
                  GUI Updater      178                                         Event 2      187-2
                                                                                
                                                                          Metadata            183
                Event Handler      190
                                                                          Event Delivery      188
                Application Internal
                State               192
                                               Figure 1B
                                                    2/146

                             Portable Multifunction Device 100
<removed-date>
                    206                       210                                 212
                                               Optical            Proximity
                          Speaker 111
                                             Sensor 164          Sensor 166
              208   200
              208
<removed-apn>
                                         210 is SIM card slot
                                         212 is headphone jack
                                                                202
                                          Touch Screen 112
                                           Contact Intensity
                                            Sensor(s) 165
                                            Tactile Output
                                           Generator(s) 167
                                                               203
                            Microphone        Home             Accelerometer(s)
                                113            204                   168
                                        External Port 124
                                          Figure 2
                                              3/146

<removed-date>
                                                                Memory 370
                                                              Operating System                126
                                                              Communication Module            128
                                                              Contact/Motion Module           130
                                                                                              132
                                                              Graphics Module
                                                                                              133
                                                              Haptic Feedback Module
                                                              Text Input Module               134
                                                                                              136
<removed-apn>
                                                              Applications
                                                                                              137
                                                                Contacts Module
                                                                                              138
                                                                Telephone Module
                                                                                              139
                                                                Video Conference Module
                             Device 300                                                       140
                                                                E-mail Client Module
                                                                                              141
                                                                Instant Messaging Module
                                                                                              142
                                                                Workout Support Module
                                                                                              143
                                                                Camera Module
                                                                                              144
                       310                                      Image Management Module
                                   CPU(s)                                                     147
                                                                Browser Module
                                                                                              148
                                             320                Calendar Module
                                                                                              149
                                                                Widget Modules
                                                                                              149-1
              330                                                  Weather Widget
                                                                                              149-2
                                                                   Stocks Widget
                                                                                              149-3
                     I/O Interface                                 Calculator Widget
                                                                                              149-4
                                                                   Alarm Clock Widget
                        Display                                                               149-5
                                            340                    Dictionary Widget
                                                                                              149-6
                    Keyboard/Mouse          350                     User-Created Widget(s)
                                                                                              150
                                                                Widget Creator Module
                       Touchpad             355                                               151
                                                                Search Module
                                                                                              152
                     Tactile Output                             Video & Music Player Module
                                                                                              380
                     Generator(s)           357                 Drawing Module
                                                                                              382
                                                                Presentation Module
                       Sensor(s)            359                                               384
                                                                Word Processing Module
                                                                                              386
                                                                Website Creation Module
                                                                                              388
                                        Network                 Disk Authoring Module
                                                                                              390
                             360     Communications             Spreadsheet Module
                                        Interface
                                                              Device/Global Internal State    157
                                                   Figure 3
                                                      4/146

                                            Portable Multifunction Device
<removed-date>
                      206                                100
                                                           Optical             Proximity
                                 Speaker 111
                                                         Sensor 164           Sensor 166
                    400
              208
                             402                                        404                        406
<removed-apn>
                                              Tuesday
              208
                          Messages            Calendar                 Photos          Camera
                              424                 426                     428             430
                      Online Video             Stocks                  Maps            Weather
                            432                   434                  436                438
                            Clock             Workout                  Notes           Settings
                               440            Support 442                444                446
                          App Store            iTunes              Voice Memos         Utilities
                                            414                  410
                                        4                  6
                                Phone416           Mail 418       Browser 420      iPod 422
                                                          408
                                                                         Touch Screen 112
                                      Microphone                         Accelerometer(s)
                                          113                                  168
                                                   204
                                                   Figure 4A
                                                         5/146

                      450
<removed-date>
                                                    468
<removed-apn>
                                              470
                                                          453
              451
                            460
                              462
               Tactile Output
              Generator(s) 357      452
              Contact Intensity
               Sensor(s) 359
                                  Figure 4B
                                      6/146

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Intensity
                          p1
                                     480                     476
                                                     481           478
                                                             480
                               478
                                                           474
                                                                    Time
                                           Figure 4C
                                             7/146

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                    486
              Intensity         486
                                              484
                                488
                     ID
                                      p1
                      IL
                      IH
                                       482
                           p2                  Time
                                 Figure 4D
                                      8/146

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Intensity
                          p1
                                     492
                     ID
                                                                         492
                                                      490
                     IL
                                                            494
                     IH
                               482
                               p2                                 Time
                                           Figure 4E
                                              9/146

                                                                                                <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                      206          Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166    405               502         111        164        166
         208                                                        208
                     402      Current Time 404          406                     402      Current Time 404          406
                                   apple.com                  503                             apple.com                    503
         208                                                        208
                                                                                                                                 ITD
10/146
                                                                           504
                                                                                                                                  ITL
                                                                                                                                  IT0
                                                                                                                         Intensity of
                                                                                                                          Contact 5-
                                                                                                                              04
                             113                 168                                    113                 168
                              204                                                        204
                           Touch Screen 112                                           Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 5A                                                  Figure 5B

                                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                                <removed-date>
                206                Multifunction Device 100                                        206         Multifunction Device 100
               506            111                        164            166                       506      111                     164                         166
         208                                                                                208
                 402                 Current Time 404                           406
                                                                                      503
                      510             508                         516                                    508     510
         208   518                                                        514               208   516                                       518                     520
                                            Safari
                                      Messages                                                                       Safari
                                                                                                                        Messages
                                                      apple.com               512                               apple.com                                            522
                      Messages          Tommy W...            Details                                            Messages          Tommy W...            Details
                                     Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                                         I want to see you.                                                                         I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.                                                                   Will come over in a bit.
11/146
                                     Do you think this National                                                                 Do you think this National
                                      League will catch-on?                                                                      League will catch-on?
                       Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                               Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                       have trouble competing without                                                             have trouble competing without
                                 Spalding.                                                                                  Spalding.
                                  Agreed. There is only so much                                                              Agreed. There is only so much
                                   Harry Wright can do with that                                                              Harry Wright can do with that
                                             line-up.                                                                                   line-up.
                                 113                                    168                                    113                                            168
                              204                                                                             204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                                Touch Screen 112
                                                Figure 5C                                                               Figure 5D

                                                                                                                               <removed-apn>                             <removed-date>
                 206           Multifunction Device 100                                           206       Multifunction Device 100
               506         111                        164                     166                506       111                   164                           166
         208                                                                               208
                     528       518                                                                           518
         208         526      510               508                          516           208                              508                          516
                                                                                    514                      510                                                     514
                                                                                                     526
                                  Photos
                                    MessagesSafari                                                528                   Message
                                                                                                                              Safari
                                                                                                                     Photos s
                                                               apple.com             512                                                       apple.com
                           Messages
                            Albums           Tommy W...Edit        Details                                                                            Detail
         503                                                                                                     Messages
                                                                                                                   Albu         Tommy W...
                                                                                                                                       Edi              s
                                          Mr. Watson, come here.                                                             Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                                    ms                   t
                               Nature                                                            503                 Natu
                                              I want to see you.                                                                 I want to see you.
                                                                                                                     re
                                Will come over in a bit.                                                            Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                     Vacati
                                                                                                                            you think this National
12/146
                               Vacation
                                     Do you think this National                                                      on DoLeague   will catch-on?
                                            League will catch-on?
                                                                                                                   Maybe, but the Red Caps
                            Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                          with have trouble competing
                                                                                                                     Outer
                            have trouble competing without                                                              without Spalding.
                                       Spalding.
                                                                                                                     Space
                               Outer Space                                                                                  Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                            much Harry Wright can do
                                       Agreed. There is only so much
                                                                                                                                with that line-up.
                                        Harry Wright can do with that
                                                  line-up.
                             113                                              168                           113                                                168
                              204                                                                          204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                             Touch Screen 112
                                            Figure 5E                                                                  Figure 5F

                                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>                                    <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                           206             Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                     166                506          111                    164                       166
         208                                                                                 208
                                510-a                                                               534-b                       532                                  520
         208         526-a                      508-a                          516           208        526-b                     510-b                                          508-b
                                                                                      514
                                    Photos
                                      MessagesSafari                                                                    Music
                                                                                                                         Photos Messages                                                     Safari
                                                                 apple.com             512                                                                                               apple.com
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details                         More          Albums
                                                                                                                    Albums         Messages Edit    Tommy W...         Details
         503                                                                                 503
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                                Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                            Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                                 Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                                       Nature                    I want to see you.
                                                                                                            Abraham Lincoln, George
                                                     532                                                    Washi...                                      532
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                  Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
                                                                                                                                    Will come over in a bit.
13/146                                                                                                      Thomas Jefferson, James
                                 Vacation
                                       Do you think this National                                           Beethoven:
                                                                                                            Madis...       Fidelio -
                                                                                                                       Vacation              Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                                League will catch-on?
                                                                                                            Op. 72
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                                  Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                                                                                                            James Monroe, John
                              have trouble competing without                                                                        have trouble competing without
                                        Spalding.                                                           Beethoven:
                                                                                                            Quincy     Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                                                                                     Ad...                     Spalding.
                                 Outer Space                                                                           Outer Space
                                                                                                            Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                         Agreed. There is only so much                                                                        Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                            Bur...                             Harry Wright can do with that
                                                    line-up.                                                                                             line-up.
                 530-a                                                                                               530-b
                               113                                              168                               113                                            168
                            204                                                                                 204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                    Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 5G                                                                         Figure 5H

                                                                                                                                                               <removed-apn>                                         <removed-date>
                206               Multifunction Device 100                                                                    206              Multifunction Device 100
               506            111                 164                  166                                                   506           111                 164                  166
         208                                                                                                           208
                     534-c              538                     532                                                            534-c                 538                     532
         208    540-c                526-c                            510-c                                            208   540-c                526-c                            510-c
                                     Music Photos
                                   Phone                                             Messages                                                     Music Photos
                                                                                                                                                Phone                                             Messages
                      More          Albums Albums                    Messages
                                                                    Edit               Tommy W...            Details               More          Albums Albums                    Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                 Edit               Tommy W...            Details
         503                                                                                                           503
                                                                                    Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                                       Mr. Watson, come here.
                      B   1         2         3                                                                                    B   1         2         3
                              Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20                                                                                     Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                                                   Nature                               I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                                                Nature                               I want to see you.
                              Abraham Lincoln, George                                                                                      Abraham Lincoln, George
                          4         5
                              Washi...
                                              6                                                                                        4         5
                                                                                                                                           Washi...
                                                                                                                                                           6
                              Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...                  Will come over in a bit.                                         Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...                  Will come over in a bit.
                              Thomas Jefferson, James                                                                                      Thomas Jefferson, James
                          7         8         9                                                                                        7         8         9
14/146
                              Madis...             Vacation                         Do you think this National                             Madis...             Vacation                         Do you think this National
                                                                                     League will catch-on?                                                                                        League will catch-on?
                              Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72                                                                                  Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                                    0         #
                              James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...         Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                               0         #
                                                                                                                                           James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...         Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                                                                      have trouble competing without                                                                               have trouble competing without
                              Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...                        Spalding.                                                 Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...                       Spalding.
                                                   Outer
                              Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                                            Space                                                                                               Outer
                                                                                                                                           Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                                                                                                                                                         Space
                                                                                 Agreed. There is only so much                                                                                Agreed. There is only so much
                              Bur...                                              Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                                                           Bur...                                              Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                            line-up.                                                                                                     line-up.
                                                     7                                                                                                            7
                                                         530-c             507
                                        524
                                113                                   168                                                                    113                                   168
                             204                                                                                                          204
                          Touch Screen 112                                                                                             Touch Screen 112
                                           Figure 5I                                                                                                    Figure 5J

                                                                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                                         <removed-date>
                 206             Multifunction Device 100                                                                                 206              Multifunction Device 100
               506            111                164                 166                                                                 506           111                 164                   166
         208                                                                                                                       208
           544                534-d                                                                                                        534-c                 538                     532
         208     540-d                     526-d                                 510-d                                             208   540-c                526-c                            510-c
                                     Music Photos
                                  Phone                                                          Messages                                                     Music Photos
                                                                                                                                                            Phone                                             Messages
                         More          Albums          Albums             Edit   Messages          Tommy W...            Details               More          Albums Albums                    Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                             Edit               Tommy W...            Details
         503                                                                                                                       503
                                                                                                Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                                       Mr. Watson, come here.
                         B1        2         3                                                                                                 B   1         2         3
                                Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20                                                                                               Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                                                        Nature                                      I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                                                            Nature                               I want to see you.
                                Abraham Lincoln, George                                                                                                Abraham Lincoln, George
                         4         5
                                Washi...
                                             6                                                                                                     4         5
                                                                                                                                                       Washi...
                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...                            Will come over in a bit.                                         Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...                  Will come over in a bit.
                                Thomas Jefferson, James                                                                                                Thomas Jefferson, James
                         7         8         9                                                                                                     7         8         9
15/146
                                Madis...                Vacation                                Do you think this National                             Madis...             Vacation                         Do you think this National
                                                                                                 League will catch-on?                                                                                        League will catch-on?
                                Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72                                                                                            Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                                   0         #
                                James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                   Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                               0         #
                                                                                                                                                       James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...          Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                                                                                  have trouble competing without                                                                                          competing without
                                Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...                                 Spalding.                                                  Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...        548have troubleSpalding.
                                Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                                          Outer   Space                                                                                                     Outer
                                                                                                                                                       Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                                                                                                                                                                     Space
                                                                                             Agreed. There is only so much                                                                                Agreed. There is only so much
                                Bur...                                                        Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                                                                       Bur...                                              Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                        line-up.                                                                                                     line-up.
                                                   7                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                546-c
                                113                                 168                                                                                  113                                    168
                             204                                                                                                                      204
                          Touch Screen 112                                                                                                         Touch Screen 112
                                         Figure 5K                                                                                                                  Figure 5L

                                                                                                                                                                            <removed-apn>                        <removed-date>
                206               Multifunction Device 100                                                                           206                 Multifunction Device 100
               506            111                    164                        166                                                 506              111                     164                     166
         208                                                                                                                  208
                 534-e               538                532                                                                          534-f                      510-f
                             526-e                      510-e                                            508-e                538             526-f                               532            508-f
         208                                                                                                                  208
                                        Photos Messages
                                    Phone
                                     Music                                                                           Safari                                 Photos
                                                                                                                                                           Phone
                                                                                                                                                            Music
                                                                                                                                                              Messages                               Safari
                                                                                                                 apple.com                                                                      apple.com
                     More         Albums
                                      Albums           Messages Edit     Tommy W...            Details                                    More        Messages
                                                                                                                                                       Albums
                                                                                                                                                       Albums          Tommy W...Edit      Details
         503                                                                                                                  503
                                                                      Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                         Mr. Watson, come here.
                     B   1           2          3                                                                                         B      1          2           3
                            Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20                                                                                             Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                                           Nature                         I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                                          Nature I want to see you.
                            Abraham Lincoln, George                                                                                              Abraham Lincoln, George
                         4  Washi...
                                     5          6                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                 Washi...
                                                                                                                                                            5           6
                            Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...      Will come over in a bit.                                                             Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
                                                                                                                                                          Will come over in a bit.
                            Thomas Jefferson, James                                                                                              Thomas Jefferson, James
                         7           8          9                                                                                                7          8           9
16/146
                            Madis...       Vacation                   Do you think this National                                                 Madis... Vacation Do you think this National
                                                                       League will catch-on?                                                                          League will catch-on?
                            Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72                                                                                          Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                                     0          #
                            James Monroe, John QuincyMaybe,
                                                        Ad... but the Red Caps with                                                                    Monroe,
                                                                                                                                                 JamesMaybe,0but John  Quincy
                                                                                                                                                                 the Red#      Ad...
                                                                                                                                                                         Caps with
                     548                                        competing without                                                                     have trouble competing without
                            Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                               548have troubleSpalding.                                                                          Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                                                                                                                 548            Spalding.
                                             Outer Space
                            Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                                                                                                                                            Outer Space
                                                                                                                                                 Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                                                   Agreed. There is only so much                                                              Agreed. There is only so much
                            Bur...                                  Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                                                                 Bur...        Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                              line-up.                                                                                       line-up.
                                                        7                                                                                                                        7
                                                                         546-e                                                                                          546-f
                                113                                            168                                                                     113                                           168
                               204                                                                                                                  204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                                                     Touch Screen 112
                                           Figure 5M                                                                                                                Figure 5N

<removed-date>
                                     Movement of Contact 530 on Touch Screen 112
                                                                         532
                                                                                 530-c           546-e
                                                      530-b
              Pixels
                                                                                          548
                                                                                                          546-f
<removed-apn>
                                      530-a
                                                                          Time
                                    Speed of UI Representations on Touch Screen 112
                                                                     546-e                               Blurring
                                                                                                   550
              Relative Z-position
                                                                                         508-e
                                                                  510-e
                                                  526-e
                                                               Relative Lateral Speed
                                    Speed of UI Representations on Touch Screen 112
                                                                  546-f                                  Blurring
                                                                                                   550
              Relative Z-position
                                                                  508-f
                                                      510-f
                                              526-f
                                                               Relative Lateral Speed
                                                              Figure 5O
                                                                17/146

                                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
                  206            Multifunction Device 100                                   206           Multifunction Device 100
               506          111                         164                   166         506        111                          164           166
         208                                                                        208
                                                                                                                                                      554
                                                  508-a
                                                                                                                                                                 Current Time
         208            510-a                                                       208                      508                                                Tues
                                                                                                  510
               526-a                                                       Safari         526                                                                    30
                                                                                                         Message
                                                                                                               Safari
                                       Messages
                             Photos                                    apple.com                      Photos s
                                                                                                                                apple.com
                                                              Detail                                                                   Detail
                         Messages       Tommy W...                                                Messages
                                                                                                    Albu         Tommy W...
                                                                                                                        Edi
                                                                s                                                                        s
                          Albums               Edit
                                      Mr. Watson, come here.                                         ms       Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                                          t
         503                                                                        503               Natu
                             Nature      I want to see you.                                                       I want to see you.
                                                                                                      re
                            Will come over in a bit.                                                 Will come over in a bit.
                             Vacation
                                                                                                      Vacati
                                   Do you think this National                                                you think this National
18/146
                                       League will catch-on?
                                                                                                      on DoLeague   will catch-on?
                           Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                  Maybe, but the Red Caps
                          with have trouble competing                                              with have trouble competing
                                                                                                      Outer
                              Outer   Space
                                without Spalding.                                                        without Spalding.
                                                                                                      Space
                                    Agreed. There is only so                                                 Agreed. There is only so
                                    much Harry Wright can do                                                 much Harry Wright can do
                                        with that line-up.                                                       with that line-up.
                                                                                                                                                            6          4
                              113                                            168                        113                                     168
                             204                                                                      204
                          Touch Screen 112                                                         Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 5P                                                                Figure 5Q

                                                                                                                                          <removed-apn>                                          <removed-date>
                  206            Multifunction Device 100                                  206                   Multifunction Device 100
               506          111                         164                   166         506             111                               164                        166
                                                                                                                                                                                             508-b
         208                                                                        208
                                                  508-a                                                           538
                                                                                                                                 510-b                                  532
                                                                                            526-b                                                                                                          Safari
         208            510-a                                                       208
               526-a                                                       Safari         534-b                                                           Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                     apple.com
                                       Messages                                                                 Photos
                             Photos                                    apple.com                             Music               Messages                 Tommy W...               Details
                                                              Detail
                         Messages       Tommy W...
                                                                s                                      Albums                                     Edit Mr. Watson, come here.
                          Albums               Edit                                          More Albums
                                      Mr. Watson, come here.
         503                                                                        503     B
                                                                                                                                                            I want to see you.
                             Nature      I want to see you.                                       Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                                                                                                                        Nature
                                                                                                  Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                                          558                                                                                                         558
                            Will come over in a bit.                                                                                        Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                  Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
                                                                                                  Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
                             Vacation
                                   Do you think this National
19/146
                                       League will catch-on?                                                             Vacation
                                                                                                  Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72                     Do you think this National League will
                                                                                                  James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                               catch-on?
                           Maybe, but the Red Caps
                          with have trouble competing
                              Outer   Space                                                       Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                without Spalding.
                                                                                                  Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Bur...
                                                                                                                                Maybe, but the Red Caps with have
                                                                                                                         Outer Space
                                    Agreed. There is only so                                                                          trouble competing without Spalding.
                                    much Harry Wright can do
                                        with that line-up.
                                                                                                                                                  Agreed. There is only so much Harry
                                                                                                                                                     Wright can do with that line-up.
               556-a
                                                                                                      556-b
                              113                                            168                              113                                                      168
                             204                                                                          204
                          Touch Screen 112                                                             Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 5R                                                                         Figure 5S

                                                                                                                                                                               <removed-apn>                                  <removed-date>
                 206               Multifunction Device 100                                                                    206                   Multifunction Device 100
               506            111                            164              166                                            506              111                                164                         166
                                                                                        510-c
         208                                                                                                           208
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   508-b
                                              526-c                                                                                                     510-b
                                                                                                            Messages          526-b
         208           534-c                                                                                           208                                                                                                       Safari
               540-c                                                                                                         534-b
                                                                     Photos                                                                            Messages
                                              Music                                                                                                                                                                         apple.com
                                                                                                                    Detail                       Photos
                                                                                          Messages Tommy W...                                   Music
                                                                                                                      s                             Messages Tommy W...                                 Details
                            More
                                                            Albums               Edit             Mr. Watson, come here.
                                       Albums                                                                                                    Albums                         Edit
                                                                                                                                More Albums                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                        B
         503                                                                                                          503       B
                               Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20            Nature                             I want to see you.                             Nature                        I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                     Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                               Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                                                                                                                                     Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                                                                                                                                                             Will come
                                                                                                                                     Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...               over in a bit.
                               Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
20/146                         Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
                                                                                           Will come over in a bit.                  Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
                                                                                                                                                     Vacation
                                                                                                                                     Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72   Do        you think this National League will
                               Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                                                                   Vacation                          Do you think this               James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                    catch-on?
                               James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...
                                                                                                    National League will             Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                                                                         catch-on?                                   Maybe,
                                                                                                                                                    Martin
                                                                                                                                     Andrew Jackson,Outer  Van
                                                                                                                                                            Spacebut  Red Caps with have
                                                                                                                                                                 Bur...the
                               Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                                                                                                                       trouble competing without Spalding.
                               Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Bur...
                                                                   Outer Space              Maybe, but the Red
                                                                                           Caps with have trouble                                                     Agreed. There is only so much Harry
                                                                                                                                                                         Wright can do with that line-up.
                                                                                                  Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                   much Harry Wright can
                                                                                                    do with that line-up.
                                                    556-c
                                113                                           168                                                                 113                                                       168
                                204                                                                                                           204
                             Touch Screen 112                                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                                Figure 5T                                                                                                          Figure 5U

                                                                                                                                                                            <removed-apn>                          <removed-date>
                 206                  Multifunction Device 100                                                                  206                  Multifunction Device 100
               506             111                            164                 166               508-d                     506             111                            164              166
         208                                                                                                            208
                                                            555                                                                                                                                     510-e
                                 510-d
                                                                                                                  Safari                                555-b
                526-b                                                                                                          526-b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Messages
         208                                                               Messages                                     208                            402                 Current Time 404          406
               534-b                                                                                                          534-b
                                                                                                            apple.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Thomas Edison
                                   Photos                                                                                                         Photos
                                  Music Messages                        Tommy W...             Details                                           Music                             rotary           Messages        Tommy W...           Details
                          Albums                             Edit      Mr. Watson, come here.                                                    Albums                     Edit                                 Mr. Watson, come here.
                     More Albums                                                                                                 More Albums
         503      B                                                                                                     503      B
                                      Nature                              I want to see you.                                                         Nature                                                         I want to see you.
                       Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20                                                                                       Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                       Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...                                                                               Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                       Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...            Will come over in a bit.                                                 Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
21/146                 Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...                                                                               Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Will come over in a bit.
                                      Vacation                                                                                                       Vacation
                       Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72                                                                                    Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                                                                      Do you think this National
                       James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                                                                                James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                                           Do you think this National
                                                                       League will catch-on?                                                          Remind Me                               Message
                       Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...                                                                                    Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 League will catch-on?
                                      Martin Van
                       Andrew Jackson,Outer   SpaceBur...                                                                                            Martin Van
                                                                                                                                      Andrew Jackson,Outer   SpaceBur...
                                                          Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                                                            have trouble competing                                                                                                                   Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                                               without Spalding.                                                                                           slide to answer          with have trouble competing
                                                                                                                                                                                                          without Spalding.
                                                                      Agreed. There is only so
                                                                    much Harry Wright can do with                                                                                                               Agreed. There is only so
                                                                            that line-up.                                                                                                                       much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    with that line-up.
                                   113                                           168                                                              113                                         168
                               204                                                                                                            204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                                               Touch Screen 112
                                                   Figure 5V                                                                                                      Figure 5W

                                                                                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>                                 <removed-date>
                 206                   Multifunction Device 100                                                                            206                  Multifunction Device 100
               506              111                                164                         166                                       506             111                           Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                       164     166
         208                                                                                                                       208
                                                                                                     508-b                                                                                                               508-b
                                                                                                                                                               Messages Tommy W...                             Details
                                          510-b                                                                                                                                       Mr. Watson, come here.
                526-b                                                                                                                     526-b
         208                                                                                                      Safari           208                                                    I want to see you.                           Safari
               534-b                                                                                                                     534-b                                 562
                                         Messages                                                                                                                         Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                             apple.com     560-b                                                                                                  apple.com
                                   Photos                                                                                                                    Photos             Do you think this National League will
                                  Music                                                                                                                     Music                             catch-on?
                                      Messages Tommy W...                                 Details
                                   Albums                         Edit                                                                                      Albums                 Caps with have
                                                                                                                                                                Maybe, but the RedEdit
                                                                  Mr. Watson, come here.
                     More Albums                                                                                                                      trouble competing without Spalding.
                                                                                                                                            More Albums
         503      B                                   562                                                                      503          B
                                       Nature                        I want to see you.                                                                         Nature
                       Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20                                                                    502                           Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20       Agreed. There is only so much Harry
                       Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...                                                                                          Abraham Lincoln, George Washi... Wright can do with that line-up.
                                               Will come
                       Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...               over in a bit.                                                                   Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
22/146                 Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...                                                                                          Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
                                       Vacation                                                                                                                 Vacation
                       Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72   Do        you think this National League will                                               Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                       James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                    catch-on?                                                              James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                 510-f
                       Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...                                                                                               Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                       Maybe,
                                      Martin
                       Andrew Jackson,Outer  Van
                                              Spacebut  Red Caps with have
                                                   Bur...the                                                                                                    Martin Van
                                                                                                                                                 Andrew Jackson,Outer   SpaceBur...
                                         trouble competing without Spalding.
                                                        Agreed. There is only so much Harry
                                                           Wright can do with that line-up.
                  560-a
                                    113                                                       168                                                            113                                                  168
                               204                                                                                                                       204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                                                          Touch Screen 112
                                                    Figure 5X                                                                                                                 Figure 5Y

                                                             Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                               I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                                              Will come over in a bit.
                                         Do you think this National League will
                206                Multifunction       catch-on?
                                                               Device 100                                                   206                 Multifunction Device 100
                                        but the Red Caps with have
                                trouble competing without
                             111Maybe,             164Spalding.                        166                                                 111                             164            166
               506                                                                                                        506
         208                                        Agreed. There is only so much Harry                             208
                                                       Wright can do with that line-up.       508-b                                                                                             508-b
                560-c
                526-g                                                                                                                                             526-h
                                                                                                                           534-h
         208    534-g                                                510-g                                 Safari   208                                                                                       Safari
          540                                                                                                             540                                                 Photos
                                          Photos                                                      apple.com                                                                                          apple.com
                                      Music                                                                                                          Music
                                                                                                                                                            Albums                       Edit
                     More         Albums
                                Albums                                    Edit                                                      More      Albums
                     B                                                                                                          B
         503                                                                                                        503                                                    Nature
                         Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20Nature                                                                                Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                         Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...                                                                              Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                         Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
                                                                                                                                       Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
                         Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
23/146                                                                                                                                 Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
                                                                                                                                                                           Vacation
                                                  72
                         Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. Vacation
                                                                                                                                       Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                         James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...
                                                                                                                                       James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...
                         Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                         Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Bur...                                                                             Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                                                                                                       Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Bur...
                                                  Outer Space                                                                                                              Outer Space
                                 113                                                  168                                                    113                                          168
                             204                                                                                                          204
                          Touch Screen 112                                                                                             Touch Screen 112
                                                Figure 5Z                                                                                                   Figure 5AA

                                                                                                                                                         <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                 206                   Multifunction Device 100                                                                   206         Multifunction Device 100
               506              111                                164                         166                               507        111           164        166
         208                                                                                                               208
                                                                                                     508-b                                        Current Time
                                          510-b                                                                                    Messages
                526-b                                                                                                                                Tommy W...        Details
         208                                                                                                      Safari   208
               534-b                     Messages                                                                                                  Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                             apple.com
                                   Photos
                                  Music                                                                                                               I want to see you.
                                      Messages Tommy W...                                 Details
                                   Albums                         Edit
                                                                  Mr. Watson, come here.
                     More Albums
         503      B
                                       Nature                        I want to see you.                                                  Will come over in a bit.
                       Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                       Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                                               Will come
                       Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...               over in a bit.
                       Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
24/146
                                       Vacation                                                                                                   Do you think this National
                       Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72   Do        you think this National League will
                       James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...                    catch-on?                                                                League will catch-on?
                       Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                       Maybe,
                                      Martin
                       Andrew Jackson,Outer  Van
                                              Spacebut  Red Caps with have
                                                   Bur...the
                                         trouble competing without Spalding.                                                            Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                                                                                                                       with have trouble competing
                                                        Agreed. There is only so much Harry
                                                           Wright can do with that line-up.                                                  without Spalding.
                                                                                                                                                  Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                                                  much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                                                      with that line-up.
                      564
                                                                                                                                   This is much easier than that            514
                                                                                                                                   articulate speech doohickey.
                                    113                                                       168                                           113                  168
                               204                                                                                                            204
                                                                                                                                               This will change                      516
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                                               Touch Screen   112 everything.
                                                 Figure 5BB                                                                                        Figure 5CC               518
                                                                                                                                                  Its gr8!

<removed-date>
              Time
                                   206       Multifunction Device 100
                                 506
                                          111                      164                           166
                                   526                       510-a
                           208
                                                       532Time
                                                  Current
                                                                                                                                  522
                     528                     Photos                                          Messages
                           208
<removed-apn>
                                                     558                                                                           507
                                         Albums                 Edit       Messages           Tommy W...              Details
                     524                                                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                                            Nature                                               I want to see you.
                                   206                     Will come over in a100
                                             Multifunction Device             bit.
                                 506        Vacation                                        Do you think this National
                                          111                      164                           166
                                                                                             League will catch-on?
                                   526                               510-b
                           208
                                                                            Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                                                                            have trouble competing without
                                                                                       Spalding.
                                            OuterCurrent
                                                 Space
                                                               532Time                   Agreed. There is only so much
                                                                                          Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                    line-up.
                                                                                                                                  522
                     528                     Photos                                    Messages
                           208
                                                     558                                                                           507
                                         Albums                   Messages
                                                                Edit                    Tommy W...              Details
                     524                                                               Mr. Watson, come here.
                                            Nature                                         I want to see you.
                                   206       Multifunction         over in a bit. 100
                                                               Device
                                                         Will come
                                 506        Vacation                                   Do you think this National
                                          111                      164                           166
                                                                                        League will catch-on?
                                   526                                    510-c
                           208
                                                                      Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                                                                      have trouble competing without
                                                                                Spalding.
                                            OuterCurrent
                                                 Space                 Time
                                                                                   Agreed. There is only so much
                                                                                    Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                              line-up.
                                                                                                                          522
                     528                                               Messages
                           208
                                                     558                                                                    507
                                         Albums      Messages
                                                           Edit Tommy W...                      Details
                     524                                               Mr. Watson, come here.
                                          Bach:
                                          Nature Cantatas - BWV 20        I want to see you.
                                   206    Abraham    Lincoln,bit. George
                                                 Will come over in a Device
                                           Multifunction                      Washi...
                                                                            100
                                 506        Vacation                  Do you think this National
                                          Bach: Das
                                          111                164   Wohltemperiet...
                                                                  League will catch-on? 166
                                   526                                   510-d
                           208
                                                   Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                                          Thomas        trouble competing withoutJames Madis...
                                                   have Jefferson,
                                                             Spalding.
                                           OuterCurrent Time
                                                 Space
                                               558
                                                                   Agreed. There is only so much
                                                                    Harry Wright can do with that
                                                               Op. 72
                                          Beethoven: Fidelio - 522            line-up.
                     528                       Messages
                           208            James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...
                                              558                 507
                                            Messages
                                         Albums      EditW... Details
                                                   Tommy
                     524                  Beethoven:         Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                          Mr. Watson, come here.
                                          Bach:
                                          Andrew
                                           Nature  Cantatas
                                                   Jackson, Martin      Van20
                                                                    - BWV   Bur...
                                                              I want to see you.
                                                Figure    5DD
                                          Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                                                Will come over in a bit.
                                            Vacation       25/146
                                                          Do you think this National
                                          Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
                                                           League will catch-on?
                                             Maybe, but the Red Caps with

                                                                                                          <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                               206          Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166    405                        502         111        164        166
         208                                                                 208
                     402      Current Time 404          406                              402      Current Time 404          406
                                    apple.com                                                           apple.com
         208                                                                 208
                                                                                          572
                       570
                                                                      ITD                                                                 ITD
26/146
                                                                       ITL                                                                 ITL
                                                                       IT0                                                                 IT0
                                                              Intensity of                                                        Intensity of
                                                               Contact 5-                                                          Contact 5-
                                                                   70                                                                  72
                             113                 168                                             113                 168
                              204                                                                 204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                    Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 5EE                                                          Figure 5FF

                                                                                                                               <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                               206                   Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                               506               111                        164        166
         208                                                                 208
                     402      Current Time 404          406
                                                                                                           510-g
                                    apple.com
                                                                             538             526-g                              532
                                                                                                                              508-g
         208                                      574                        208
                                                                                                             Photos
                                                                                                            Phone
                                                                                                             Music  Safari
                                                                                                              Messages
                                                                                                                   apple.com
                                                                                         More   MessagesAlbums
                                                                                                       AlbumsTommy W... Edit Details
                                                                             503
                                                                                                                  Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                         B      1            2            3
                      572                                                                       Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                                                                                                          Nature to see you.
                                                                                                                    George
                                                                                                Abraham Lincoln,I want
                                                                      ITD                       4
                                                                                                Washi...
                                                                                                             5            6
                                                                                                      Das
                                                                                                Bach:Will   Wohltemperiet...
                                                                                                          come over in a bit.
                                                                                                Thomas Jefferson, James
27/146
                                                                                                7            8
                                                                                                Madis... Vacation
                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                              Do you think this National
                                                                                                                   League will catch-on?
                                                                                                Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                                                                       ITL                      James Monroe,
                                                                                                  Maybe,     0    John
                                                                                                         but the Red Caps #
                                                                                                                       Quincy
                                                                                                                          with Ad...
                                                                                                    have trouble competing without
                                                                                                Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                                                                                         Spalding.
                                                                                                        Outer Space
                                                                                                Andrew Jackson, Martin Van
                                                                                                         Agreed. There is only so much
                                                                                                Bur...    Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                                          line-up.
                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                       IT0
                                                                                                    546-g
                                                              Intensity of
                                                               Contact 5-
                                                                   72
                             113                 168                                                    113                                168
                              204                                                                  204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                     Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 5GG                                                                      Figure 5HH

                                                                                          <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                206          Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                502         111        164        166
         208                                                  208
                     402      Current Time 404          406               402      Current Time 404          406
                                   apple.com                                            apple.com
         208                                                  208
                                                                                                                           ITD
28/146
                                                                     602
                                                                                                                            ITL
                                                                                                                            IT0
                                                                                                                   Intensity of
                                                                                                                    Contact 6-
                                                                                                                        02
                             113                 168                              113                 168
                              204                                                  204
                           Touch Screen 112                                     Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 6A                                            Figure 6B

                                                                                                                              <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100                                                 206          Multifunction Device 100
               506         111                         164                   166                        502         111        164        166
         208                                                                                      208
                                                                                                              402      Current Time 404          406
                                                 508-a                                                                                                   503
                                                                                                                            apple.com
         208           510-a                                                                      208
                                                                          Safari
                                      Messages
                                                                      apple.com
                                                             Detail
                        Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s
                                    Mr. Watson, come here.
                                        I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                           ITD                                                                 ITD
                                    Do you think this National
29/146
                                     League will catch-on?
               602
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                         with have trouble competing
                               without Spalding.
                                                                                            ITL                                                                 ITL
                                   Agreed. There is only so
                                   much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.
                                                                                            IT0                                                                 IT0
                                                                                   Intensity of                                                        Intensity of
                                                                                    Contact 6-                                                          Contact 6-
                                                                                        02                                                                  02
                             113                                            168                                       113                 168
                            204                                                                                        204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                           Touch Screen 112
                                            Figure 6C                                                                       Figure 6D

                                                                                                                                               <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100                                                  206            Multifunction Device 100
               506         111                         164                   166                        506         111                         164                   166
         208                                                                                      208
                                                 508-a                                                                                    508-a
         208           510-a                                                                      208           510-a
                                                                          Safari                                                                                   Safari
                                      Messages                                                                                 Messages
                                                                      apple.com                                                                                apple.com
                                                             Detail                                                                                   Detail
                        Messages       Tommy W...                                                                Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s                                                                                        s
                                    Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                   Mr. Watson, come here.
                       606
                                        I want to see you.                                                                       I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                           ITD                      Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                                                                                       ITD
                                    Do you think this National                                                               Do you think this National
30/146
                                     League will catch-on?
               604-a                                                                                              604-bLeague will catch-on?
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                                  Maybe, but the Red Caps
                         with have trouble competing                                                              with have trouble competing
                               without Spalding.
                                                                                            ITL                         without Spalding.
                                                                                                                                                                                        ITL
                                   Agreed. There is only so                                                                 Agreed. There is only so
                                   much Harry Wright can do                                                                 much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.                                                                       with that line-up.
                                                                                            IT0                                                                                         IT0
                                                                                   Intensity of                                                                                Intensity of
                                                                                    Contact 6-                                                                                  Contact 6-
                                                                                        04                                                                                          04
                             113                                            168                                       113                                            168
                            204                                                                                      204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                         Touch Screen 112
                                            Figure 6E                                                                                Figure 6F

                                                                                                                             <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                206         Multifunction Device 100                                    206            Multifunction Device 100
               507        111           164        166                               506          111                         164                   166
         208                                                                   208
                                Current Time
                                                                                                                        508-a
                 Messages          Tommy W...        Details
         208                                                                   208            510-a
                                 Mr. Watson, come here.                              526-a                                                       Safari
                                                                                                             Messages
                                                                                                   Photos                                    apple.com
                                    I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                    Detail
                                                                                               Messages       Tommy W...
                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                Albums               Edit
                                                                                                            Mr. Watson, come here.
                       Will come over in a bit.                                                    Nature      I want to see you.
                                                                        ITD                       Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                                                                     ITD
                                Do you think this National                                         Vacation
                                                                                                         Do you think this National
31/146
                                                                                                             League will catch-on?
                                 League will catch-on?                                608
                                                                                                 Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                                                                                with have trouble competing
                                                                         ITL                        Outer   Space
                                                                                                      without Spalding.
                                                                                                                                                                      ITL
                      Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                             Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                          much Harry Wright can do
                     with have trouble competing                                                              with that line-up.
                           without Spalding.
                                                                         IT0                                                                                          IT0
                                Agreed. There is only so
                                much Harry Wright can do
                                    with that line-up.
                                                                Intensity of                                                                                 Intensity of
                                                          514    Contact 6-                                                                                   Contact 6-
                 This is much easier than that
                                                                     04                                                                                           08
                 articulate speech doohickey.
                         113-2                 168                                                  113                                            168
                            204                                                                    204
                             This will change                   516
                         Touch Screen   112 everything.                                         Touch Screen 112
                                  Figure 6G               518                                                      Figure 6H
                                Its gr8!

                                                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                  206            Multifunction Device 100                                                   206            Multifunction Device 100
               506          111                         164                   166                        506          111                         164                   166
         208                                                                                       208
                                                  508-a                                                                                     508-a
         208            510-a                                                                      208            510-a
               526-a                                                       Safari                        526-a                                                       Safari
                                       Messages                                                                                  Messages
                             Photos                                    apple.com                                       Photos                                    apple.com
                                                              Detail                                                                                    Detail
                         Messages       Tommy W...                                                                 Messages       Tommy W...
                                                                s                                                                                         s
                          Albums               Edit                                                                 Albums               Edit
                                      Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                    Mr. Watson, come here.
                             Nature      I want to see you.                                                            Nature      I want to see you.
                            Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                            ITD                       Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                                                                                         ITD
                             Vacation
                                   Do you think this National                                                          Vacation
                                                                                                                             Do you think this National
32/146
                                       League will catch-on?                                                                     League will catch-on?
                                                                                                          610
                           Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                                   Maybe, but the Red Caps
                          with have trouble competing                                                               with have trouble competing
                              Outer   Space
                                without Spalding.
                                                                                             ITL                        Outer   Space
                                                                                                                          without Spalding.
                                                                                                                                                                                          ITL
                                    Agreed. There is only so                                                                  Agreed. There is only so
                                    much Harry Wright can do                                                                  much Harry Wright can do
                                        with that line-up.                                                                        with that line-up.
                                                                                                   503
                                                                                             IT0                                                                                          IT0
                                                                                    Intensity of                                                                                 Intensity of
                                                                                     Contact 6-                                                                                   Contact 6-
                                                                                         08                                                                                           10
                              113                                            168                                        113                                            168
                             204                                                                                       204
                          Touch Screen 112                                                                          Touch Screen 112
                                               Figure 6I                                                                                Figure 6J

                                                                                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                       <removed-date>
                 206                   Multifunction Device 100                                                                        206               Multifunction Device 100
               506              111                               164                       166                                      506            111                            164              166
                                                                                                                                                                                                              510-c
         208                                                                                                                   208
                                                                                                   508-b
                                  538
                                    510-b                                        532                                                                                526-c
                526-b                                                                                                                                                                                                             Messages
         208                                                                                                    Safari         208           534-c
               534-b                                                                                                                 540-c
                                         Messages                                                                                                                                          Photos
                                                                                                           apple.com                                                Music
                                   Photos                                                                                                                                                                                                 Detail
                                  Music                                                                                                                                                                         Messages Tommy W...
                                        Messages                  Tommy W...             Details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                                  More
                                                                                                                                                                                  Albums               Edit             Mr. Watson, come here.
                                   Albums                        Edit                                                                                        Albums
                     More Albums                                Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                                                              B
                  B
                                      Nature                        I want to see you.                                                               Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20            Nature                             I want to see you.
                       Bach: Cantatas - BWV 20
                                                                                                                                                     Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                       Abraham Lincoln, George Washi...
                                                                                                                         ITD                                                                                                         ITD
                                               Will come
                       Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...              over in a bit.
                                                                                                                                                     Bach: Das Wohltemperiet...
33/146                 Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...                                                                                              Thomas Jefferson, James Madis...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Will come over in a bit.
                                       Vacation
                       Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72   Do you think this National League will
               610     James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...             catch-on?                                                         610             Beethoven: Fidelio - Op. 72
                                                                                                                                                                                         Vacation                          Do you think this
                                                                                                                                                     James Monroe, John Quincy Ad...
                       Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...                                                                       ITL                                                                                              National League
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ITL will
                                       Maybe,
                                      Martin
                       Andrew Jackson,Outer  Van
                                              Spacebut  Red Caps with have
                                                   Bur...the                                                                                                                                                                   catch-on?
                                                                                                                                                     Beethoven: Pastoral-Sinf...
                                         trouble competing without Spalding.
                                                                                                                                                     Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Bur...
                                                                                                                                                                                         Outer Space              Maybe, but the Red
                                                        Agreed. There is only so much Harry                                                                                                                      Caps with have trouble
                                                           Wright can do with that line-up.
     503                                                                                                                 IT0   503                                                                                                   IT0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         much Harry Wright can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          do with that line-up.
                                                                                                                Intensity of                                                                                              Intensity of
                                                                                                                 Contact 6-                                                                                                Contact 6-
                                                                                                                     10                                                                                                        10
                                    113                                                    168                                                        113                                           168
                                204                                                                                                                   204
                             Touch Screen 112                                                                                                      Touch Screen 112
                                                    Figure 6K                                                                                                           Figure 6L

                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                                206                Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                               506              111                164              166
         208                                                                 208
                     402      Current Time 404          406
                                                                                                                   508
                                   apple.com
         208                                                                 208               618
                                                                                    622                                              Safari
                                                                                                          Safari                 apple.com
                                                                                                      Safari
                                                                                                  newsaboutsports.com
                                                                                             sciencetoday.com
                                                                                                               Tommy Bond
                                                                      ITD                                      blanks Canaries                           ITD
                                                                                                               in debut.
34/146
                                                                                                                  Mungo Park
                                                                                         London, England  Lou Pasteur
                                                                                         was awarded the Copley medal
                                                                                                                  edges young
                                                                       ITL               for experiments on fermentation...
                                                                                                                  Tom Morris.
                                                                                                                                                          ITL
                 612
                                                                       IT0                                                                                IT0
         614
                                                              Intensity of                                                                       Intensity of
                                                               Contact 6-                                                                         Contact 6-
                                                                   12                                                                                 12
                             113                 168                                                  113                              168
                              204                                                                    204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                       Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 6M                                                                    Figure 6N

                                                                                                         <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                                206         Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                               616         111        164        166
         208                                                                 208
                     402      Current Time 404          406                              402      Current Time 404          406
                                   apple.com                                                      newsaboutsports.com
         208                                                                 208
                                                                      ITD1                                Tommy Bond blanks
                                                                                                          Canaries in debut.
                                                                      ITD                                                                   ITD
35/146
                                                                       ITL                                Mungo Park edges                   ITL
                 624                                                                                      young Tom Morris for
                                                                                                          first Open
                                                                       IT0                                Championship.                      IT0
         614
                                                              Intensity of                                                          Intensity of
                                                               Contact 6-                                                            Contact 6-
                                                                   24                                                                    24
                             113                 168                                             113                 168
                              204                                                                 204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                    Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 6O                                                           Figure 6P

                                                                                                            <removed-apn>                             <removed-date>
                206         Multifunction Device 100                                   206         Multifunction Device 100
               507        111           164        166                               506       111           164                 166
         208                                                                   208
                                Current Time
                                                                                                           510
                 Messages          Tommy W...        Details
         208                                                                   208           508
                                 Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                    Messages
                                                                                                         Safari
                                    I want to see you.                                                      Messages Tommy W...          Details
                                                                                                    apple.com
                                                                                                                      Mr. Watson, come here.
                       Will come over in a bit.                                                                          I want to see you.
                                                                        ITD                                                                                   ITD
                                                                                                             Will come over in a bit.
36/146                          Do you think this National
                                 League will catch-on?                                                               Do you think this National
                                                                                                                      League will catch-on?
                                                                         ITL                                Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                                                                                                                                               ITL
                      Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                628           with have trouble competing
                     with have trouble competing                                                                 without Spalding.
                                                                                                                     Agreed. There is only so
                           without Spalding.                                                                         much Harry Wright can do
                                                                         IT0                                             with that line-up.
                                                                                                                                                               IT0
               626              Agreed. There is only so                             626-a
                                much Harry Wright can do
                                    with that line-up.
                                                                Intensity of                                                                          Intensity of
                                                          514    Contact 6-                                                                            Contact 6-
                 This is much easier than that
                                                                     26                                                                                    26
                 articulate speech doohickey.
                         113-2                 168                                                 113                           168
                            204                                                                  204
                             This will change                   516
                         Touch Screen   112 everything.                                       Touch Screen 112
                                  Figure 6Q               518                                            Figure 6R
                                Its gr8!

                                                                                                         <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                               206          Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                               502         111        164        166
         208                                                                 208
                     402      Current Time 404          406                              402      Current Time 404          406
                                   apple.com                                                           apple.com
         208                                                                 208
                                                                      ITD                                                                 ITD
37/146
                                                                                                                            628
                                                                       ITL                                                                 ITL
                                                                       IT0                                                                 IT0
                                                              Intensity of                                                        Intensity of
                                                               Contact 6-                                                          Contact 6-
                                                                   26                                                                  28
                             113                 168                                             113                 168
                              204                                                                 204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                    Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 6S                                                           Figure 6T

                                                                                                          <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                 206         Multifunction Device 100                               206          Multifunction Device 100
               616         111        164        166                               502         111        164        166
         208                                                                 208
                     402      Current Time 404          406                              402      Current Time 404          406
                              newsaboutsports.com                                                      apple.com
         208                                                                 208
                                      Tommy Bond blanks
                                      Canaries in debut.
                                                                      ITD                                                                   ITD
38/146
                                                                                                                     632
                                      Mungo Park edges                 ITL                                                                   ITL
                                      young Tom Morris for
                                      first Open
                                      Championship.                                                                          630
                                                                       IT0                                                                   IT0
                                                              Intensity of                                                          Intensity of
                                                               Contact 6-                                                            Contact 6-
                                                                   28                                                                    30
                             113                 168                                             113                 168
                              204                                                                 204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                    Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 6U                                                           Figure 6V

                                                                                          <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                206          Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                502         111        164        166
         208                                                  208
                     402      Current Time 404          406               402      Current Time 404          406
                                   apple.com                                            apple.com
         208                                                  208
                                                                                                                           ITD
39/146
                                                                     702
                                                                                                                            ITL
                                                                                                                            IT0
         614
                                                                                                                   Intensity of
                                                                                                                    Contact 7-
                                                                                                                        02
                             113                 168                              113                 168
                              204                                                  204
                           Touch Screen 112                                     Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 7A                                            Figure 7B

                                                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100                                                  206                 Multifunction Device 100
               506         111                         164                   166                        506              111                      164             166
         208                                                                                      208
                                                 508-a
                                                                                                                                                      508-b
                                                                                                                       510-b
         208           510-a                                                                      208
                                                                          Safari
                                                                                                                             Messages                             Safari
                                      Messages
                                                                      apple.com
                                                                                                                                                              apple.com
                                                                                                          Messages         Tommy W...             Details
                                                             Detail
                        Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s
                                                                                                                         Mr. Watson, come here.
                                    Mr. Watson, come here.
                                        I want to see you.                                                                   I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                           ITD                                                                                        ITD
                                                                                                                Will come over in a bit.
                                    Do you think this National
40/146
                                     League will catch-on?                                                              Do you think this National
               702                                                                                      702              League will catch-on?
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                         with have trouble competing                                                           Maybe, but the Red Caps
                               without Spalding.
                                                                                            ITL               with have trouble competing
                                                                                                                                                                                       ITL
                                   Agreed. There is only so                                                         without Spalding.
                                   much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.                                                               Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                        much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                            with that line-up.
                                                                                            IT0                                                                                        IT0
                                                                                   Intensity of                                                                               Intensity of
                                                                                    Contact 7-                                                                                 Contact 7-
                                                                                        02                                                                                         02
                             113                                            168                                             113                                  168
                            204                                                                                           204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                            Figure 7C                                                                                      Figure 7D

                                                                                                                        <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                 206               Multifunction Device 100                                      206         Multifunction Device 100
               506             111                 164             166                          507        111           164        166
         208                                                                              208
                                                                                                                 Current Time
                        510-c
                                                              508-c                               Messages          Tommy W...        Details
         208                                                                              208
                                     Messages                                                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                  Safari
                 Messages Tommy W...                          apple.com                                              I want to see you.
                                                    Details
                                Mr. Watson, come here.
                                   I want to see you.                                                   Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                   ITD                                                                      ITD
                       Will come over in a bit.
41/146                                                                                                           Do you think this National
                               Do you think this National
               702              League will catch-on?                                                             League will catch-on?
                      Maybe, but the Red Caps                                       ITL                                                                      ITL
                     with have trouble competing                                                       Maybe, but the Red Caps
                           without Spalding.
                               Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                      with have trouble competing
                               much Harry Wright can do                                                     without Spalding.
                                   with that line-up.                               IT0                                                                      IT0
                                                                                                                 Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                 much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                     with that line-up.
                                                                           Intensity of                                                             Intensity of
                                                                            Contact 7-                                                     514       Contact 7-
                                                                                                  This is much easier than that
                                                                                02                                                                       02
                                                                                                  articulate speech doohickey.
                                 113                               168                                    113-2                 168
                               204                                                                           204
                                                                                                              This will change                      516
                            Touch Screen 112                                                              Touch Screen   112 everything.
                                             Figure 7E                                                              Figure 7F              518
                                                                                                                 Its gr8!

                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
                206       Multifunction Device 100                                                  206       Multifunction Device 100
               506       111            164                  166                                   506       111           164        166
         208                                                                                 208
                 508-a         510-a                                                                 508-a                       510-b
         208                                                                                 208
                                             Safari
                                     Safari Messages                                                                    Safari                    Messages
                               apple.com     apple.com                                                             apple.com
                               Messages       Tommy W...            Details                                                      Messages      Tommy W...            Details
                                           Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                           Mr. Watson, come here.
                                               I want to see you.                     ITD                                                       I want to see you.             ITD
42/146
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                         Will come over in a bit.
               704                                                                                 704
                                           Do you think this National                  ITL                                                  Do you think this National         ITL
                                            League will catch-on?                                                                            League will catch-on?
                                 Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                with have trouble competing                                                                      with have trouble competing
                                      without Spalding.                                IT0                                             without Spalding.                       IT0
                                           Agreed. There is only so                                                                         Agreed. There is only so
                                           much Harry Wright can do                                                                         much Harry Wright can do
                                               with that line-up.                                                                               with that line-up.
                                                                              Intensity of                                                                       Intensity of
                                                                               Contact 7-                                                                         Contact 7-
                                                                                   04                                                                                 04
                          113                                168                                              113                    168
                         204                                                                                 204
                      Touch Screen 112                                                                    Touch Screen 112
                                  Figure 7G                                                                           Figure 7H

                                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                206       Multifunction Device 100                                                         206         Multifunction Device 100
               506       111           164              166                                               507        111           164        166
         208                                                                                        208
                                                                                                                           Current Time
                 508-a                     510-c
                                                                                                            Messages          Tommy W...        Details
         208                                                                                        208
                                    Safari                   Messages                                                       Mr. Watson, come here.
                               apple.com
                                           Messages
                                                                                                                               I want to see you.
                                                           Tommy W...           Details
                                                        Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                                  Will come over in a bit.
                                                           I want to see you.                ITD                                                                      ITD
43/146
                                               Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                           Do you think this National
               704                                                                                        704               League will catch-on?
                                                       Do you think this National             ITL                                                                      ITL
                                                        League will catch-on?                                    Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                              Maybe, but the Red Caps                                           with have trouble competing
                                             with have trouble competing                                              without Spalding.
                                                   without Spalding.                          IT0                                                                      IT0
                                                       Agreed. There is only so                                            Agreed. There is only so
                                                       much Harry Wright can do
                                                           with that line-up.                                              much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                               with that line-up.
                                                                                     Intensity of                                                             Intensity of
                                                                                      Contact 7-                                                     514       Contact 7-
                                                                                                            This is much easier than that
                                                                                          04                                                                       02
                                                                                                            articulate speech doohickey.
                          113                          168                                                          113-2                 168
                         204                                                                                           204
                                                                                                                        This will change                      516
                      Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen   112 everything.
                                   Figure 7I                                                                                  Figure 7J              518
                                                                                                                           Its gr8!

                                                                                                             <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                206         Multifunction Device 100                                   206        Multifunction Device 100
               507        111           164        166                               507        111           164       166
         208                                                                   208
                                Current Time                                                          Current Time
                 Messages          Tommy W...        Details                           Messages          Tommy W...        Details
         208                                                                   208
                                 Mr. Watson, come here.                                                Mr. Watson, come here.
                                    I want to see you.                                                    I want to see you.
                       Will come over in a bit.                                              Will come over in a bit.
                                                                        ITD                                                                      ITD
44/146                          Do you think this National                                            Do you think this National
                                 League will catch-on?                                                 League will catch-on?
                                                                         ITL                                                                      ITL
                      Maybe, but the Red Caps                                             Maybe, but the Red Caps
                     with have trouble competing                                         with have trouble competing
                           without Spalding.                                         706       without Spalding.
                                                                         IT0                                                                      IT0
                                Agreed. There is only so                                              Agreed. There is only so
                                much Harry Wright can do                                              much Harry Wright can do
                                    with that line-up.                                                    with that line-up.
                                                                Intensity of                                                             Intensity of
                                                          514    Contact 7-                                                     514       Contact 7-
                 This is much easier than that                                         This is much easier than that
                                                                     04                                                                       06
                 articulate speech doohickey.                                          articulate speech doohickey.
                         113-2                 168                                             113-2                 168
                            204                                                                  204
                             This will change                   516                               This will change                       516
                         Touch Screen   112 everything.                                       Touch Screen   112 everything.
                                  Figure 7K               518                                            Figure 7L              518
                                Its gr8!                                                             Its gr8!

                                                                                                                          <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
                206       Multifunction Device 100                                                  206       Multifunction Device 100
               506       111             164                 166                                   506      111           164        166
         208                                                                                 208
                 508-d         510-d                                                                 58-d                       510-e
         208                                                                                 208
                                     Safari Messages                                                                   Safari                    Messages
                               apple.com                                                                          apple.com
                               Messages       Tommy W...            Details                                                     Messages      Tommy W...            Details
                                           Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                          Mr. Watson, come here.
                                               I want to see you.                     ITD                                                      I want to see you.             ITD
45/146
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                        Will come over in a bit.
                                           Do you think this National                  ITL                                                 Do you think this National         ITL
                                            League will catch-on?                                                                           League will catch-on?
                                 Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                                         Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                with have trouble competing                                                                     with have trouble competing
               706                    without Spalding.                                IT0         706                                without Spalding.                       IT0
                                           Agreed. There is only so                                                                        Agreed. There is only so
                                           much Harry Wright can do                                                                        much Harry Wright can do
                                               with that line-up.                                                                              with that line-up.
                                                                              Intensity of                                                                      Intensity of
                                                                               Contact 7-                                                                        Contact 7-
                                                                                   06                                                                                04
                          113                                168                                              113                   168
                         204                                                                                   204
                      Touch Screen 112                                                                      Touch Screen 112
                                  Figure 7M                                                                          Figure 7N

                                                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166
         208
                     402      Current Time 404          406
                                   apple.com
         208
                                                                      ITD
46/146
                                                                       ITL
               706                                                     IT0
                                                              Intensity of
                                                               Contact 7-
                                                                   06
                             113                 168
                              204
                           Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 7O

                                                                                                                                                     <removed-apn>                            <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                                     206              Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                    166                           506           111                        164                    166
         208                                                                                           208
         208         526-a           510-a                     508-a                                   208         526-a           510-a                                     508-b
                                    Photos
                                      Messages                                 Safari                                             Photos
                                                                                                                                    Messages                                           Safari
                                                                          apple.com                                                                                                apple.com
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details                                               Messages
                                                                                                                           Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details
         503                                                                                           503
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                        Mr. Watson, come here.
                                 Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                                               Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                ITD                                                                                                     ITD
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                      Will come over in a bit.
47/146
                                 Vacation
                                       Do you think this National                                                              Vacation
                                                                                                                                     Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                         League will catch-on?
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                       ITL                        Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                 ITL
                              have trouble competing without                                                                have trouble competing without
                                        Spalding.                                                                                      Spalding.
                                 Outer Space                                                                                   Outer Space
                                         Agreed. There is only so much                                                                 Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that                                                                 Harry Wright can do with that
                                                    line-up.                                                                                      line-up.
                                                                                                 IT0                                                                                                     IT0
                     802                                                                                           802
                                                                                        Intensity of                                                                                            Intensity of
                                                                                         Contact 8-                                                                                              Contact 8-
                                                                                             02                                                                                                      02
                               113                                             168                                           113                                             168
                              204                                                                                           204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 8A                                                                                     Figure 8B

                                                                                                                                              <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                                             206           Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                     166                                  507         111           164       166
         208                                                                                                   208
                                                                                                                                       Current Time
                                                                                                                       Messages           Tommy W...        Details
         208         526-a           510-a                                     508-c                           208
                                                                                                                                        Mr. Watson, come here.
                                      Messages
                                    Photos                                             Safari
                                                                                  apple.com                                                I want to see you.
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details
         503
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.
                                 Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                                             Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                        ITD                                                                       ITD
                                  Will come over in a bit.
48/146
                                 Vacation
                                                                                                                                       Do you think this National
                                       Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                     League will catch-on?
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                              have trouble competing without
                                                                                                         ITL                                                                       ITL
                                        Spalding.                                                                           Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                 Outer Space
                                         Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                                           with have trouble competing
                                                    line-up.
                                                                                                                                 without Spalding.
                                                                                                         IT0                                                                       IT0
                     802                                                                                                   802         Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                                       much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                                           with that line-up.
                                                                                                Intensity of                                                              Intensity of
                                                                                                 Contact 8-                                                      514       Contact 8-
                                                                                                                       This is much easier than that
                                                                                                     02                                                                        02
                                                                                                                       articulate speech doohickey.
                               113                                              168                                            113-2                 168
                              204                                                                                                   204
                                                                                                                                     This will change                     516
                           Touch Screen 112                                                                                      Touch Screen   112 everything.
                                             Figure 8C                                                                                    Figure 8D              518
                                                                                                                                       Its gr8!

                                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                    <removed-date>
                206             Multifunction Device 100                                                           206       Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                   164                       166                                  506     111              164                166
         208                                                                                                208
                                                                                                                                510-c
                                   510-b
                     526-a                                                         508-d                     526-a                                                    508-e
         208                                                                                                208                            Messages
                                      Messages
                                  Photos                                                   Safari                              Photos                               Safari
                                                                                                                         Messages        Tommy W...    Details
                             Messages       Tommy W...             Details            apple.com                                                            apple.com
         503                 Albums                Edit                                                     503           Albums           Edit come here.
                                                                                                                                      Mr. Watson,
                                           Mr. Watson, come here.
                                Nature        I want to see you.                                                             Nature      I want to see you.
                                                                                                     ITD                                                                              ITD
                                 Will come over in a bit.
49/146                                                                                                                      Will come over in a bit.
                                Vacation
                                       Do you think this National
                                                                                                                             Vacation
                                            League will catch-on?                                                                   Do you think this National
                                                                                                      ITL                             League will catch-on?                            ITL
                             Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                             have trouble competing without
                                         Space
                                OuterSpalding.                                                                             Maybe,   Space
                                                                                                                              Outer but the Red Caps
                                                                                                                          with have trouble competing
                                       Agreed. There is only so much                                                            without Spalding.
                                        Harry Wright can do with that
                                                  line-up.                                            IT0                                                                              IT0
                                                                                                                                      Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                                      much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                                          with that line-up.
                     802
                                                                                             Intensity of                                                                     Intensity of
                                                                                              Contact 8-                                                                       Contact 8-
                                                                                                  02                                                                               02
                              113                                        168                                               113                                168
                              204                                                                                           204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                          Figure 8E                                                                                   Figure 8F

                                                                                                                                                       <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                                     206                Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                    166                           506           111                         164              166
         208                                                                                           208
         208         526-a           510-a                     508-a                                   208         526-a             510-f                     508-a
                                    Photos
                                      Messages                                 Safari                                               Photos
                                                                                                                                    Messages                           Safari
                                                                          apple.com                                                                                apple.com
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details                                         Messages    Tommy W...
                                                                                                                            Albums                       Details
                                                                                                                                                       Edit
         503                                                                                           503
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                  Mr. Watson, come here.
                                 Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                 Nature
                                                                                                                                    I want to see you.
                                                                                                ITD                                                                                        ITD
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                Will come over in a bit.
50/146
                                 Vacation
                                       Do you think this National                                                                Vacation
                                                                                                                                  Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                   League will catch-on?
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                       ITL                  Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                          ITL
                              have trouble competing without                                                          have trouble competing without
                                        Spalding.                                                                               Spalding.
                                 Outer Space                                                                                     Outer Space
                                         Agreed. There is only so much                                                           Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that                                                           Harry Wright can do with that
                                                    line-up.                                                                                line-up.
                                                                                                 IT0                                                                                        IT0
                     804                                                                                           804
                                                                                        Intensity of                                                                               Intensity of
                                                                                         Contact 8-                                                                                 Contact 8-
                                                                                             04                                                                                         02
                               113                                             168                                            113                                       168
                              204                                                                                           204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 8G                                                                                       Figure 8H

                                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                206                Multifunction Device 100                                                  206          Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                         164            166                                 502         111        164        166
         208                                                                                          208
                                                                                                                  402      Current Time 404          406
                                                                                                                                apple.com
         208         526-a             510-f                         508-f                            208
                                      Photos
                                      Messages                                Safari
                                                                         apple.com
                       Messages    Tommy W...
                              Albums                       Details
                                                         Edit
         503
                                      Mr. Watson, come here.
                                   Nature
                                      I want to see you.
                                                                                               ITD                                                                 ITD
                            Will come over in a bit.
51/146
                                   Vacation
                                    Do you think this National
                                        League will catch-on?
                        Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                            ITL                                                                 ITL
                        have trouble competing without                                                       806
                                   Spalding.
                                   Outer Space
                                   Agreed. There is only so much
                                    Harry Wright can do with that
                                              line-up.
                                                                                                IT0                                                                 IT0
                     804
                                                                                       Intensity of                                                        Intensity of
                                                                                        Contact 8-                                                          Contact 8-
                                                                                            04                                                                  06
                                113                                    168                                                113                 168
                              204                                                                                          204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                                             Touch Screen 112
                                                 Figure 8I                                                                      Figure 8J

                                                                                                                                                     <removed-apn>                       <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                                     206              Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                    166                           506           111                        164                    166
         208                                                                                           208
         208         526-a           510-a                     508-a                                   208         526-a           510-a                     508-a
                                    Photos
                                      Messages                                 Safari                                             Photos
                                                                                                                                    Messages                                 Safari
         503                                                              apple.com                    503                                                              apple.com
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details                                               Messages
                                                                                                                           Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                        Mr. Watson, come here.
                                 Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                                               Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                ITD                                                                                              ITD
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                      Will come over in a bit.
52/146
                                 Vacation
                                       Do you think this National
                                                                                                             808               Vacation
                                                                                                                                     Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                         League will catch-on?
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                       ITL                        Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                          ITL
               806-a          have trouble competing without                                                                have trouble competing without
                                                                                                                                806-b
                                        Spalding.                                                                                      Spalding.
                                 Outer Space                                                                                   Outer Space
                                         Agreed. There is only so much                                                                 Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that                                                                 Harry Wright can do with that
                                                    line-up.                                                                                      line-up.
                                                                                                 IT0                                                                                              IT0
                                                                                        Intensity of                                                                                     Intensity of
                                                                                         Contact 8-                                                                                       Contact 8-
                                                                                             06                                                                                               06
                               113                                             168                                           113                                             168
                            204                                                                                           204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 8K                                                                                      Figure 8L

                                                                                                                                                             <removed-apn>                       <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                                             206              Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                     166                                  506           111                        164                    166
         208                                                                                                   208
         208         526-a           510-a                                     508-g                           208         526-a           510-a                     508-a
                                      Messages
                                    Photos                                             Safari                                             Photos
                                                                                                                                            Messages                                 Safari
         503                                                                      apple.com                    503                                                              apple.com
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details                                                       Messages
                                                                                                                                   Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                                Mr. Watson, come here.
                                 Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                       Nature         I want to see you.
                                                                                                        ITD          808                                                                                 ITD
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                              Will come over in a bit.
53/146
                                 Vacation
                                       Do you think this National                                                                      Vacation
                                                                                                                                             Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                                 League will catch-on?
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                                          Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                              have trouble competing without
                                 806-b                                                                   ITL                        have trouble competing without
                                                                                                                                        806-b                                                             ITL
                                        Spalding.                                                                                              Spalding.
                                 Outer Space                                                                                           Outer Space
                                         Agreed. There is only so much                                                                         Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that                                                                         Harry Wright can do with that
                                                    line-up.                                                                                              line-up.
                                                                                                         IT0                                                                                              IT0
                                                                                                Intensity of                                                                                     Intensity of
                                                                                                 Contact 8-                                                                                       Contact 8-
                                                                                                     06                                                                                               06
                               113                                              168                                                  113                                             168
                            204                                                                                                   204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                                      Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 8M                                                                                             Figure 8N

                                                                                                                                       <removed-apn>                                             <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                                     206           Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                    166                           506           111         164                     166
         208                                                                                           208
         208         526-a           510-a                     508-a                                   208         526-a                            510-h                     508-h
                                      Messages
                                    Photos                                     Safari                                        Photos                         Messages                           Safari
         503                                                              apple.com                    503                                                                               apple.com
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details                                                                                  Tommy W...            Details
                                                                                                                      Albums           Edit Messages
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                                         Mr. Watson, come here.
                                 Nature         I want to see you.                                                          Nature                             I want to see you.
                                                                                                ITD                                                                                                          ITD
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                                       Will come over in a bit.
54/146
                                 Vacation
                                       Do you think this National                                                           Vacation                       Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                                         League will catch-on?
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                                                   Maybe, but the Red Caps with
                     806-c    have trouble competing without
                                                                                                 ITL               806-c                     have trouble competing without
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ITL
                                        Spalding.                                                                                                       Spalding.
                                 Outer Space                                                                                Outer Space
                                         Agreed. There is only so much                                                                                  Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that                                                                                  Harry Wright can do with that
                                                    line-up.                                                                                                       line-up.
                                                                                                 IT0                                                                                                          IT0
                                                                                        Intensity of                                                                                                 Intensity of
                                                                                         Contact 8-                                                                                                   Contact 8-
                                                                                             06                                                                                                           06
                               113                                             168                                          113                              168
                            204                                                                                           204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 8O                                                                            Figure 8P

                                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                206           Multifunction Device 100                                                                    206     Multifunction Device 100
               506           111          164        166                                                                 524    111        164        166
         208                                                                                                       208
                                                                                                                                      Current Time
                     526-i                                                                                                              Albums              Edit
         208                                        510-i                    508-i                                 208
                                    Photos
                                                                    Messages                          Safari
                                                                                                                                           Nature
         503                                                                                     apple.com
                         Albums              Edit   Messages          Tommy W...            Details
                                                                   Mr. Watson, come here.
                               Nature                                  I want to see you.
                                                                                                             ITD                                                              ITD
                                                         Will come over in a bit.
55/146                                                                                                                                     Vacation
                                                                   Do you think this National
                               Vacation                             League will catch-on?
                                                     Maybe, but the Red Caps with                            ITL                                                               ITL
                     806-c                           have trouble competing without
                                                               Spalding.
                               Outer Space                      Agreed. There is only so much
                                                                 Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                           line-up.
                                                                                                             IT0                           Outer Space                         IT0
                                                                                                 Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                                                                                                  Contact 8-                                                           Contact 8-
                                                                                                      06                                                                   06
                              113                   168                                                                           113                 168
                            204                                                                                                    204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                                       Touch Screen 112
                                     Figure 8Q                                                                                          Figure 8R

                                                                                                                                       <removed-apn>                                             <removed-date>
                206              Multifunction Device 100                                                     206           Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                        164                    166                           506           111         164                    166
         208                                                                                           208
         208         526-a           510-a                     508-a                                   208         526-a                     510-b                  508-b
                                    Photos
                                      Messages                                 Safari                                        Photos                         MessagesSafari
                                                                          apple.com                                                                                           apple.com
                             Messages
                             Albums            Tommy W...Edit        Details                                                                                  Tommy W...            Details
         503                                                                                           503            Albums           Edit Messages
                                            Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                                         Mr. Watson, come here.
                                 Nature         I want to see you.                                                          Nature                             I want to see you.
                                                                                                ITD                                    904                                                               ITD
                                  Will come over in a bit.                                                                                       Will come over in a bit.
56/146
                                 Vacation
                                       Do you think this National                                                           Vacation                       Do you think this National
                                              League will catch-on?                                                                                         League will catch-on?
                              Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                       ITL                                         Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                 ITL
                              have trouble competing without                                                                                 have trouble competing without
                                        Spalding.                                                                                                      Spalding.
                                 Outer Space                                                                                Outer Space
                                         Agreed. There is only so much                                                                                  Agreed. There is only so much
                                          Harry Wright can do with that                                                                                  Harry Wright can do with that
                                                    line-up.                                                                                                       line-up.
                                                                                                 IT0                                                                                                      IT0
                     902-a                                                                                         902-a
                                                                                        Intensity of                                                                                             Intensity of
                                                                                         Contact 9-                                                                                               Contact 9-
                                                                                             02                                                                                                       02
                               113                                             168                                          113                              168
                            204                                                                                           204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                              Touch Screen 112
                                             Figure 9A                                                                            Figure 9B

                                                                                                                                                        <removed-apn>                                <removed-date>
                206           Multifunction Device 100                                                                206           Multifunction Device 100
               506           111         164                    166                                                  506           111                   164                          166
         208                                                                                                   208
         208         526-a                    510-b                   508-b                                    208         526-a            510-c                                       508-b
                               Photos                         MessagesSafari                                                          Photos
                                                                                                                                          Messages                                              Safari
                                                                                apple.com                                                                                                   apple.com
                                                                Tommy W...            Details                                     Messages            Tommy W...            Details
         503            Albums           Edit Messages                                                         503            Albums                     Edit
                                                             Mr. Watson, come here.                                                                Mr. Watson, come here.
                              Nature                             I want to see you.                                                 Nature             I want to see you.
                                                                                                        ITD                                                                                                      ITD
                                                   Will come over in a bit.                                                              Will come over in a bit.
57/146
                              Vacation                       Do you think this National                                                    Do you think this National
                                                                                                                                    Vacation
                                                              League will catch-on?                                                                  League will catch-on?
                                               Maybe, but the Red Caps with                              ITL                         Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                 ITL
                                               have trouble competing without                                                        have trouble competing without
                                                          Spalding.                                                                             Spalding.
                              Outer Space                                                                                           Outer Space
                                                          Agreed. There is only so much                                                         Agreed. There is only so much
                                                           Harry Wright can do with that                                                         Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                     line-up.                                                                              line-up.
                                                                                                         IT0                                                                                                      IT0
                                            902-b                                                                                                             902-b
                                                                                                Intensity of                                                                                             Intensity of
                                                                                                 Contact 9-                                                                                               Contact 9-
                                                                                                     02                                                                                                       02
                              113                              168                                                                  113                                               168
                            204                                                                                                   204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                                      Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 9C                                                                                                  Figure 9D

                                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                206           Multifunction Device 100                                                                   206         Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                   164                          166                                     507        111           164        166
         208                                                                                                      208
                                                                                                                                         Current Time
                                                                                                                          Messages          Tommy W...        Details
         208         526-a            510-c                                       508-b                           208
                                                                                                                                          Mr. Watson, come here.
                                Photos
                                    Messages                                              Safari
                                                                                      apple.com                                              I want to see you.
                            Messages            Tommy W...            Details
         503            Albums                     Edit
                                             Mr. Watson, come here.
                              Nature             I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                           ITD                                                                      ITD
                                   Will come over in a bit.
58/146                                                                                                                                   Do you think this National
                                     Do you think this National
                              Vacation
                                               League will catch-on?                                                                      League will catch-on?
                               Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                 ITL                                                                      ITL
                               have trouble competing without
                                         Spalding.                                                                             Maybe, but the Red Caps
                              Outer Space
                                          Agreed. There is only so much
                                           Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                                              with have trouble competing
                                                     line-up.
                                                                                                                                    without Spalding.
                                                                                                            IT0                                                                      IT0
                                                                                                                                         Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                                         much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                                                             with that line-up.
                                                                                                   Intensity of                                                             Intensity of
                                                                                                    Contact 9-                                                     514       Contact 9-
                                                                                                                          This is much easier than that
                                                                                                        02                                                                       02
                                                                                                                          articulate speech doohickey.
                              113                                               168                                               113-2                 168
                            204                                                                                                      204
                                                                                                                                      This will change                      516
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                                         Touch Screen   112 everything.
                                         Figure 9E                                                                                          Figure 9F              518
                                                                                                                                         Its gr8!

                                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                206           Multifunction Device 100                                                                   206         Multifunction Device 100
               506           111                   164                          166                                     507        111           164        166
         208                                                                                                      208
                                                                                                                                         Current Time
                                                                                                                          Messages          Tommy W...        Details
         208         526-a            510-c                                       508-b                           208
                                                                                                                                          Mr. Watson, come here.
                                Photos
                                    Messages                                              Safari
                                                                                      apple.com                                              I want to see you.
                            Messages            Tommy W...            Details
         503            Albums                     Edit
                                             Mr. Watson, come here.
                              Nature             I want to see you.
                                                                                                                                Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                           ITD                                                                      ITD
                                   Will come over in a bit.
59/146                                                                                                                                   Do you think this National
                                     Do you think this National
                              Vacation
                                               League will catch-on?                                                                      League will catch-on?
                               Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                 ITL                                                                      ITL
                               have trouble competing without
                                         Spalding.                                                                             Maybe, but the Red Caps
                              Outer Space
                                          Agreed. There is only so much
                                           Harry Wright can do with that
                                                                                                                              with have trouble competing
                                                     line-up.
                                                                                                                                    without Spalding.
                                                                                                            IT0                                                                      IT0
                                                                                                                                         Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                                         much Harry Wright can do
                                                        902-b                                                                                    902-b
                                                                                                                                             with that line-up.
                                                                                                   Intensity of                                                             Intensity of
                                                                                                    Contact 9-                                                     514       Contact 9-
                                                                                                                          This is much easier than that
                                                                                                        02                                                                       02
                                                                                                                          articulate speech doohickey.
                              113                                               168                                               113-2                 168
                            204                                                                                                      204
                                                                                                                                      This will change                      516
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                                         Touch Screen   112 everything.
                                         Figure 9G                                                                                          Figure 9H              518
                                                                                                                                         Its gr8!

<removed-date>
                                                    1000
                1002 Display a first user interface on the display. The first user interface
                 corresponds to a first user interface representation of a plurality of user
                                         interface representations
               1004 While displaying the first user interface, detect a predetermined input
<removed-apn>
                          1005 In response to detecting the predetermined input:
                               1006 Enter a user interface selection mode
                 1008 Display a plurality of user interface representations in a stack with
                  at least a portion of a first user interface representation visible and at
                      least a portion of a second user interface representation visible
                  1010 Cease to display a status bar on the display. The status bar is
                 displayed concurrently with a respective user interface prior to entering
                       the user interface selection mode and displaying the stack
                1012 Display a plurality of user interface representations in a stack on the
                  display. At least a first user interface representation and a second user
              interface representation disposed above the first user interface representation
                     in the stack are visible on the display. The second user interface
                representation is offset from the first user interface representation in a first
              direction. The second user interface representation partially exposes the first
                                         user interface representation
                  1014 A respective user interface representation has a corresponding
                 position in the stack. For a respective user interface representation that
                                          is visible on the display:
                        1016 Determine a respective relative z-position of the user
                     interface representation as compared to one or more other user
                   interface representations that are concurrently visible on the display
                   1018 Apply a level of blurring to the user interface representation in
                       accordance with the relative z-position of the user interface
                   representation as compared to the one or more other user interface
                       representations that are concurrently visible on the display
                                                      A
                                               Figure 10A
                                                60/146

<removed-date>
                1012 Display a plurality of user interface representations in a stack on the
                  display. At least a first user interface representation and a second user
              interface representation disposed above the first user interface representation
                     in the stack are visible on the display. The second user interface
                representation is offset from the first user interface representation in a first
              direction. The second user interface representation partially exposes the first
                                         user interface representation
<removed-apn>
                                                      A
                  1020 A respective user interface representation has a corresponding
                     simulated absolute z-position in the stack. For a user interface
                  representation that is visible on the display, apply a level of blurring to
                 the user interface representation in accordance with the corresponding
                  simulated absolute z-position of the user interface representation in a
                                                 z-dimension
                  1022 A respective user interface representation is associated with a
                  respective title area with respective title content. For a user interface
                     representation currently visible below an adjacent user interface
                   representation on the display, apply a visual effect to at least a first
                   portion of the title content of the user interface representation as the
                            adjacent user interface representation approaches
                    1024 Apply the visual effect to title text in the title content while
                   maintaining an original appearance of an icon in the title content, as
                    the title area of an adjacent user interface representation or the
                    adjacent user interface representation moves within a threshold
                             lateral distance on the display of the title content
                   1026 The stack includes user interface representations for a home
                screen, zero or more transient application user interface representations,
                    and one or more open application user interface representations
                      1028 The transient application user interface representations
                    include a telephony interface representation for an active call or a
                     missed call, a continuity interface representation for a suggested
                   application, a continuity interface representation for a hand-off from
                   another device, and a printer interface representation for an active
                                                   print job
                                                      B
                                               Figure 10B
                                                61/146

<removed-date>
                                                      A
               1030 Detect a first drag gesture by a first contact at a location on the touch-
                sensitive surface that corresponds to a location of the first user interface
                 representation on the display, the first contact moving across the touch-
               sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the first direction on the
                                                   display
<removed-apn>
              1032 While the first contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
                corresponds to the location of the first user interface representation on the
                 display and moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that
                             corresponds to the first direction on the display:
                 1034 Move the first user interface representation in the first direction on
                the display at a first speed in accordance with a speed of the first contact
                                        on the touch-sensitive surface
                  1036 Move the second user interface representation, disposed above
                  the first user interface representation, in the first direction at a second
                                       speed greater than the first speed
                  1038 The stack includes at least a third user interface representation
                   disposed below the first user interface representation. The first user
                       interface representation is offset from the third user interface
                        representation in the first direction. The first user interface
                 representation partially exposes the third user interface representation.
                  Move the third user interface representation, disposed below the first
                  user interface representation, in the first direction at a third speed less
                                            than the first speed
                    1040 A difference between the second speed and the first speed
                   maintains a first constant z-position difference between the second
                          user interface representation and the first user interface
                    representation. A difference between the first speed and the third
                    speed maintains a second constant z-position difference between
                     the first user interface representation and the third user interface
                   representation. The first constant z-position difference is the same
                                      as the second z-position difference
                                                      C
                                                Figure 10C
                                                 62/146

<removed-date>
                                               1032
                                              1038
                                                C
<removed-apn>
              1042 A difference between the second speed and the first speed is
               equal to a difference between the first speed and the third speed
                 1044 A ratio between the second speed and the first speed is
                  equal to a ratio between the first speed and the third speed
              1046 While moving the third user interface representation disposed
              below the first user interface representation at the third speed in the
                                           first direction:
                 1048 Reveal an increasingly larger portion of a fourth user
                   interface representation disposed below the third user
                     interface representation in the stack on the display
                     1050 Move the fourth user interface representation
                 disposed below the third user interface representation at a
                   fourth speed that is less than the third speed in the first
                                           direction
                 D               F              G               H                I
                                          Figure 10D
                                           63/146

<removed-date>
                                                     D
                 1052 Detect a second drag gesture by a second contact on the touch-
                sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the first user interface
              representation on the display, the second contact moving across the touch-
              sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to a second direction on the
                           display opposite to the first direction on the display
<removed-apn>
              1054 While the second contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface
              that corresponds the first user interface representation on the display and the
              second contact is moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that
               corresponds to the second direction on the display opposite the first direction
                                               on the display:
                1056 Move the first user interface representation in the second direction
                  at a new first speed on the display in accordance with a speed of the
                              second contact on the touch-sensitive surface
                  1058 Move the second user interface representation, disposed above
                  the first user interface representation, in the second direction at a new
                               second speed greater than the new first speed
                 1060 Move the third user interface representation, disposed below the
                 first user interface representation, in the second direction at a new third
                                     speed less than the new first speed
               1062 While moving the second user interface representation in the second
                 direction faster than moving the first user interface representation in the
                second direction, detect that the second user interface representation has
              moved in between the first user interface representation and a location on the
                display that corresponds to a location of the second contact on the touch-
                                             sensitive surface
                                                     E
                                               Figure 10E
                                                64/146

<removed-date>
                                                    E
              1064 In response to detecting that the second user interface representation
               has moved in between the first user interface and a location on the display
              that corresponds to the location of the second contact on the touch-sensitive
                                                 surface:
<removed-apn>
                  1068 Move the second user interface representation in the second
               direction at a modified second speed in accordance with a current speed
                                         of the second contact
                 1070 Move the first user interface representation, disposed below the
                   second user interface representation, in the second direction at a
                      modified first speed less than the modified second speed
                1072 Move the third user interface representation, disposed below the
                first user interface representation, in the second direction at a modified
                               third speed less than the modified first speed
               1074 A difference between the modified second speed and the modified
                 first speed maintains a first constant z-position difference between the
                     second user interface representation and the first user interface
                representation, while a difference between the modified first speed and
                     the modified third speed maintains a second constant z-position
                 difference between the first user interface representation and the third
                    user interface representation, wherein the first constant z-position
                         difference is the same as the second z-position difference
               1076 A difference between the modified second speed and the modified
               first speed is equal to a difference between the modified first speed and
                                         the modified third speed
                1078 A ratio between the modified second speed and the modified first
                  speed is equal to a ratio between the modified first speed and the
                                          modified third speed
                                              Figure 10F
                                              65/146

<removed-date>
                                                     F
                      1080 Detect activation of a transient application at the device
               1082 In response to detecting activation of the transient application, insert a
<removed-apn>
              user interface representation for the transient application in the stack between
                    the first user interface representation and the second user interface
                                                 representation
                                                     G
              1084 Detect a deletion input directed to the first user interface representation
                 1086 In response to detecting the deletion input directed to the first user
                                       interface representation:
                 1088 Remove the first user interface representation from a first position
                                              in the stack
                1090 Move a user interface representation disposed immediately below
                 the first user interface representation into the first position in the stack
                                               Figure 10G
                                                66/146

<removed-date>
                                                     H
              1091 After detecting termination of the first drag gesture, display at least two
                   of the user interface representations in the stack on the display
<removed-apn>
                   1092 Detect a selection input directed to one of the at least two user
                                 interface representations in the stack
                             1093 In response to detecting the selection input:
                                     1094 Cease to display the stack
                  1095 Display a user interface that corresponds to the selected one of
                             the at least two user interface representations
                                                      I
                1096 While at least the first user interface representation and the second
                  user interface representation, disposed above the first user interface
               representation in the stack, are stationary on the display, detect a first flick
              gesture by a second contact at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
               corresponds to one of the first user interface representation or the second
              user interface representation on the display, wherein the flick gesture moves
              across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the first
                                         direction on the display
                1098 In response to detecting the first flick gesture by the second contact,
               Move the second user interface representation with a simulated inertia that is
              based on whether the second contact was detected at a location on the touch-
               sensitive surface that corresponds to the first user interface representation or
                         to the second user interface representation on the display
                                               Figure 10H
                                                67/146

<removed-date>
                                                     1100
                              1102 Display a first user interface on the display
               1104 While displaying the first user interface on the display, detect an input
                           by a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface
<removed-apn>
                   1106 While detecting the input by the first contact, display a first user
              interface representation and at least a second user interface representation on
                                                 the display
                    1108 In accordance with a determination that the first contact has a
                   characteristic intensity during the input that is below a predetermined
                 intensity threshold, display the first user interface representation for the
                 first user interface and at least the second user interface representation
                     for the second user interface on the display, wherein the first user
                    interface representation is displayed over the second user interface
                       representation and partially exposes the second user interface
                                                representation
                 1110 In accordance with a determination that the first contact reaches
                  an intensity during the input that is above the predetermined intensity
                threshold, enter a user interface selection mode and display a plurality of
                     user interface representations in a stack on the display, the stack
                    including the first user interface representation displayed over and
                        partially exposing the second user interface representation
                 1112 The first user interface corresponds to a first open application. At
                  a time when the input by the first contact is received, the second user
                interface is a user interface of a second open application that was viewed
                               just prior to displaying the first open application
                 1114 The first user interface corresponds to a first open application. At
                   a time when the input by the first contact is received, the second user
                 interface is a user interface of the first open application that was viewed
                 just prior to displaying the first user interface of the first open application
                                                       A
                                                 Figure 11A
                                                  68/146

<removed-date>
                                                    A
              1116 While displaying the first user interface representation and at least the
              second user interface representation on the display, detect termination of the
                                        input by the first contact
<removed-apn>
               1118 In response to detecting termination of the input by the first contact:
                  1120 In accordance with a determination that the first contact had a
                characteristic intensity during the input that was below a predetermined
                   intensity threshold and the first contact moved during the input in a
                    direction across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a
                predefined direction on the display, display a second user interface that
                         corresponds to the second user interface representation
                                                    B
                  1122 In accordance with a determination that the first contact had a
               characteristic intensity during the input that was below the predetermined
               intensity threshold and the first contact did not move during the input in a
                  direction across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the
                  predefined direction on the display, redisplay the first user interface
                                         C                     D
                1124 In accordance with a determination that the first contact reached
                an intensity during the input that was above the predetermined intensity
                threshold, maintain the device in the user interface selection mode and
                                       maintain display of the stack
                                                    E
                                              Figure 11B
                                               69/146

<removed-date>
                                                     B
                1126 While displaying the second user interface on the display, detect a
                   second input by a second contact on the touch-sensitive surface
<removed-apn>
               1128 While detecting the second input by the second contact, redisplay the
                 first user interface representation and at least the second user interface
                                        representation on the display
              1130 While redisplaying the first user interface representation and at least the
               second user interface representation on the display, detect termination of the
                                   second input by the second contact
              1132 In response to detecting termination of the second input by the second
                                               contact:
                 1134 In accordance with a determination that the second contact had a
                characteristic intensity during the input that was below the predetermined
                    intensity threshold and the second contact moved during the second
                input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to
                  the predefined direction on the display, redisplay the first user interface
                  1136 In accordance with a determination that the second contact had a
                    characteristic intensity during the second input that was below the
                  predetermined intensity threshold and the second contact did not move
                 during the second input in a direction across the touch-sensitive surface
                 that corresponds to the predefined direction on the display, redisplay the
                                            second user interface
                                               Figure 11C
                                                70/146

<removed-date>
                                                      C
               1138 The input by the first contact includes a press input at a location on the
               touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a first predetermined region on or
                near the display. While displaying the first user interface on the display after
               detecting termination of the input by the first contact, detect a second input by
                a second contact on the touch-sensitive surface, where the second input by
<removed-apn>
              the second contact on the touch-sensitive surface is a press input at a location
                 on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a second predetermined
                  region on or near the display that is different from the first predetermined
                                                    region
              1140 In response to detecting the second input by the second contact on the
               touch-sensitive surface, perform a content-dependent operation associated
                                  with content of the first user interface
                                                      D
                1142 The first user interface is a view of a first application that includes a
               hierarchy of views. The input by the first contact includes a press input at or
                near a first edge of the touch-sensitive surface. After redisplaying the first
              user interface, detect an edge swipe gesture that originates from the first edge
                                        of the touch-sensitive surface
              1144 In response to detecting the edge swipe gesture that originates from the
                first edge of the touch-sensitive surface, display a view in the hierarchy of
                      views of the first application that precedes the first user interface
                                               Figure 11D
                                                71/146

<removed-date>
                                                     E
                  1146 While displaying the stack in the user interface selection mode in
                accordance with the determination that the first contact reached an intensity
              during the input that was above the predetermined intensity threshold, detect a
               drag gesture by a second contact on the touch-sensitive surface at a location
                that corresponds to the second user interface representation on the display,
<removed-apn>
                   where the drag gesture moves across the touch-sensitive surface in a
                         direction that corresponds to a first direction on the display
                             1148 In response to detecting the drag gesture:
                    1150 Move the second user interface representation in the first
                 direction at a second speed based on a speed of the second contact
                1152 Move the first user interface representation, disposed above the
                  second user interface representation, in the first direction at a first
                               speed greater than the second speed
                                              Figure 11E
                                               72/146

<removed-date>
                                                     1200
                              1202 Display a first user interface on a display
               1204 While displaying the first user interface on the display, detect, on the
               touch-sensitive surface, an input by a first contact that includes a period of
                                 increasing intensity of the first contact
<removed-apn>
               1206 In response to detecting the input by the first contact that includes the
               period of increasing intensity of the first contact, display a first user interface
                   representation for the first user interface and a second user interface
                 representation for a second user interface on the display. The first user
                    interface representation is displayed over the second user interface
              representation and partially exposes the second user interface representation
                1208 Before the period of increasing intensity of the first contact, the first
                  contact has a period of varying intensity that includes both rising and
                falling intensities. Dynamically vary an area of the second user interface
                     representation that is revealed from behind the first user interface
                representation in accordance with rising and falling of the intensity of the
                             first contact during the period of varying intensity
              1210 While displaying the first user interface representation and the second
              user interface representation on the display, detect that, during the period of
              increasing intensity of the first contact, the intensity of the first contact meets
                               one or more predetermined intensity criteria
                 1212 During the period of increasing contact intensity of the first contact
                    and before the intensity of the first contact meets the one or more
                   predetermined intensity criteria, increase an area of the second user
                    interface representation that is revealed from behind the first user
                interface representation in accordance with an increase in intensity of the
                                                first contact
                                                      A
                                                Figure 12A
                                                 73/146

<removed-date>
                                                1210
                                               1212
                                                 A
                    1214 Increasing the area of the second user interface
               representation includes displaying an animation that dynamically
                   changes the amount of area of the second user interface
<removed-apn>
               representation that is revealed from behind the first user interface
              representation based on changes in the intensity of the first contact
                                            over time
                    1216 Increasing the area of the second user interface
                     representation includes moving the first user interface
              representation in a first direction to increase a lateral position offset
               on the display between the first user interface representation and
                            the second user interface representation
                    1218 Increasing the area of the second user interface
                 representation includes, while moving the first user interface
                   representation in the first direction to increase the lateral
                 position offset on the display between the first user interface
                 representation and the second user interface representation,
                 moving the first user interface representation and the second
                 user interface representation towards each other in a second
                           direction perpendicular to the first direction
              1220 Detect that the intensity of the first contact meets the one or
                           more predetermined intensity criteria
              1222 In response to detecting that the intensity of the first contact
              meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria, display an
              animation showing the first user interface representation receding
               behind the second user interface representation and the second
                user interface representation moving into the foreground and
                           transitioning to the second user interface
                                                 B
                                           Figure 12B
                                            74/146

<removed-date>
                                                  1210
                                                  1212
                                                  1222
                                                    B
<removed-apn>
                     1224 Change a level of blurring effect applied to at least one
                     of the first user interface representation and the second user
                              interface representation during the animation
              1226 In response to detecting that the intensity of the first contact meets the
                            one or more predetermined intensity criteria:
                 1228 Cease to display the first user interface representation and the
                        second user interface representation on the display
                         1230 Display the second user interface on the display
                                      C                           D
                                              Figure 12C
                                               75/146

<removed-date>
                                                     C
              1232 While displaying the second user interface on the display, detect, on the
              touch-sensitive surface, an input by a second contact that includes a period of
                                increasing intensity of the second contact
<removed-apn>
               1234 In response to detecting the input by the second contact that includes
               the period of increasing intensity of the second contact, display the first user
               interface representation and the second user interface representation on the
              display, where the second user interface representation is displayed over the
              first user interface representation and partially exposes the first user interface
                                                representation
               1236 While displaying the first user interface representation and the second
               user interface representation on the display, detect that, during the period of
              increasing intensity of the second contact, the intensity of the second contact
                           meets the one or more predetermined intensity criteria
              1238 In response to detecting that the intensity of the second contact meets
                           the one or more predetermined intensity criteria:
                  1240 Cease to display the first user interface representation and the
                         second user interface representation on the display
                            1242 Display the first user interface on the display
                                               Figure 12D
                                                76/146

<removed-date>
                                                      D
              1244 While displaying the second user interface on the display, detect, on the
              touch-sensitive surface, an input by a second contact that includes a period of
                                increasing intensity of the second contact
<removed-apn>
                1246 In response to detecting the input by the second contact that includes
                the period of increasing intensity of the second contact, display the first user
                interface representation and the second user interface representation on the
              display, wherein the second user interface representation is displayed over the
               first user interface representation and partially exposes the first user interface
                                                 representation
               1248 While displaying the first user interface representation and the second
              user interface representation on the display, detect termination of the input by
              the second contact without the intensity of the second contact having met the
                               one or more predetermined intensity criteria
              1250 In response to detecting termination of the input by the second contact
                 without the intensity of the second contact having met the one or more
                                      predetermined intensity criteria:
                   1252 Cease to display the first user interface representation and the
                          second user interface representation on the display
                          1254 Display the second user interface on the display
                                                Figure 12E
                                                 77/146

<removed-date>
                                                    1300
                1302 Display a plurality of user interface representations in a stack on the
                 display, where at least a first user interface representation, a second user
               interface representation, and a third user interface representation are visible
               on the display. The first user interface representation is laterally offset from
                  the second user interface representation in a first direction and partially
              exposes the second user interface representation. The second user interface
              representation is laterally offset from the third user interface representation in
<removed-apn>
              the first direction and partially exposes the third user interface representation
                             1304 Prior to displaying the stack on the display:
                   1306 Display a first user interface that corresponds to the first user
                                interface representation on the display
                          1308 While displaying the first user interface, detect a
                                         predetermined input.
                         1310 In response to detecting the predetermined input:
                               1312 Enter a user interface selection mode
                      1314 Display the stack including the plurality of user interface
                                            representations
                  1316 The stack is displayed in response to detecting an input by a first
                  contact when the first contact is at a first location on the touch-sensitive
                 surface that corresponds to an onscreen location other than the second
                   user interface representation. The first contact moves on the touch-
                sensitive surface from the first location to the location that corresponds to
                 the second user interface representation on the display before detecting
                                 an increase in intensity of the first contact
                                       A                           B
                                               Figure 13A
                                                78/146

<removed-date>
                                       A                            E
                1318 Detect an input by a first contact on the touch sensitive surface at a
              location that corresponds to the second user interface representation on the
                                                  display
                   1320 The input by the first contact includes a period of decreasing
<removed-apn>
                 intensity of the first contact following a period of increasing intensity of
                  the first contact. During the period of decreasing intensity of the first
                 contact, decrease the area of the second user interface representation
                  that is exposed from behind the first user interface representation by
                       decreasing the lateral offset between the first user interface
                       representation and the second user interface representation
              1322 In accordance with detecting an increase in intensity of the first contact,
               increase an area of the second user interface representation that is exposed
                 from behind the first user interface representation by increasing the lateral
                  offset between the first user interface representation and the second user
                                            interface representation
                  1324 Increasing the area of the second user interface representation
                    that is exposed from behind the first user interface representation
                includes moving the first user interface representation in the first direction
                  1326 Increasing the area of the second user interface representation
                    that is exposed from behind the first user interface representation
                  includes moving the second user interface representation in a second
                                direction that is opposite the first direction
                                       C                            D
                                               Figure 13B
                                                79/146

<removed-date>
                                                    B
              1328 While displaying the stack, detect a drag gesture by a second contact
               on the touch-sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the second
                user interface representation and that moves across the touch-sensitive
              surface in a direction that corresponds to a second direction that is opposite
                                      the first direction on the display
<removed-apn>
                1330 In response to detecting the drag gesture by the second contact
                  1332 Move the second user interface representation in the second
                  direction at a second speed on the display based on a speed of the
                             second contact on the touch-sensitive surface
               1334 Move the first user interface representation in the second direction
                          at a first speed greater than the second speed
               1336 Move the third user interface representation in the second direction
                           at a third speed less than the second speed
               1338 Move a fourth user interface representation in the second direction
                         at a fourth speed greater than the second speed
                                                    E
                                             Figure 13C
                                              80/146

<removed-date>
                                                      C
                 1340 Detect that the intensity of the first contact on the touch-sensitive
                   surface at a location that corresponds to the second user interface
                   representation meets one or more predetermined intensity criteria
<removed-apn>
               1342 In response to detecting that the intensity of the first contact meets the
                             one or more predetermined intensity criteria:
                                      1344 Cease to display the stack
                 1346 Display an animation of the second user interface representation
                               transitioning to the second user interface
                  1348 Display a second user interface that corresponds to the second
                                     user interface representation
                                                      D
                  1350 Detect movement of the first contact from a location on the touch
              sensitive surface that corresponds to the second user interface representation
               to a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the third user
               interface representation on the display, where an intensity of the first contact
               during the movement of the first contact is less than a characteristic intensity
              detected during the increase in intensity of the first contact at a location on the
                   touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the second user interface
                                               representation
               1350 In accordance with detecting an increase in intensity of the first contact
              on the touch-sensitive surface at the location that corresponds to the third user
                 interface representation on the display, increase an area of the third user
              interface representation that is exposed from behind the second user interface
                  representation by increasing the lateral offset between the second user
                     interface representation and the third user interface representation
                                                Figure 13D
                                                 81/146

<removed-date>
                                                    1400
                1402 Display a plurality of user interface representations in a stack on the
                 display, where at least a first user interface representation, a second user
               interface representation, and a third user interface representation are visible
                on the display. The second user interface representation is laterally offset
                 from the first user interface representation in a first direction and partially
                  exposes the first user interface representation. The third user interface
              representation is laterally offset from the second user interface representation
<removed-apn>
                    in the first direction and partially exposes the second user interface
                                                 representation
               1404 Detect a drag gesture by a first contact that moves across the touch-
                sensitive surface, where movement of the drag gesture by the first contact
              corresponds to movement across one or more of the plurality of user interface
                                       representations in the stack
              1406 During the drag gesture, when the first contact moves over a location on
                  the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the first user interface
                   representation on the display, reveal more of the first user interface
               representation from behind the second user interface representation on the
                                                  display
                   1408 Revealing more of the first user interface representation from
                  behind the second user interface representation includes moving the
                       second user interface representation in the first direction
                1410 Revealing more area of the first user interface representation from
                behind the second user interface representation includes moving the first
                 user interface representation in a second direction that is opposite the
                                              first direction
                                                      A
                                               Figure 14A
                                                82/146

<removed-date>
                                                      A
                 1412 During the drag gesture, when the first contact moves from a first
                 location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the first user
               interface representation to a second location on the touch-sensitive surface
                       that corresponds to the second user interface representation:
<removed-apn>
                   1414 Reveal more of the second user interface representation from
                      behind the third user interface representation on the display
                 1416 Reveal less of the first user interface representation from behind
                       the second user interface representation on the display
                                       B                            C
                                                     B
              1418 While the first contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
                corresponds to one of the plurality of user interface representations in the
                                   stack, detect lift-off of the first contact
                         1420 In response to detecting lift-off of the first contact:
                                     1422 Cease to display the stack
                1424 Display a user interface that corresponds to the one of the plurality
                                  of user interface representations
                                               Figure 14B
                                                83/146

<removed-date>
                                                     C
              1426 While the first contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that
                corresponds to one of the plurality of user interface representations in the
                 stack, detect that an intensity of the first contact that meets one or more
                                      predetermined intensity criteria
<removed-apn>
               1428 In response to detecting the intensity of the first contact meets one or
                                 more predetermined intensity criteria:
                                     1430 Cease to display the stack
                 1432 Display a user interface corresponding to said one of the plurality
                                   of user interface representations
                                               Figure 14C
                                                84/146

<removed-date>
                                                   1500
               1502 Display a first user interface of a first application on the display. The
                     first user interface including a backwards navigation control
               1504 While displaying the first user interface of the first application on the
              display, detect a gesture by a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface at a
<removed-apn>
              location that corresponds to the backwards navigation control on the display
              1506 In response to detecting the gesture by the first contact on the touch-
              sensitive surface at a location that corresponds to the backwards navigation
                                                  control:
                 1508 In accordance with a determination that the gesture by the first
               contact is a gesture with an intensity of the first contact that meets one or
                 more predetermined intensity criteria, replace display of the first user
                      interface of the first application with display of a plurality of
                  representations of user interfaces of the first application, including a
               representation of the first user interface and a representation of a second
                                               user interface
                 1510 In accordance with a determination that the gesture by the first
                 contact is a gesture with an intensity of the first contact that does not
                meet the one or more predetermined intensity criteria, replace display of
                the first user interface of the first application with display of the second
                                    user interface of the first application
                 1512 The second user interface representation corresponds to a user
               interface in the first application that was displayed just prior to the display
                              of the first user interface of the first application
                    1514 The user interfaces in the first application are arranged in a
                hierarchy, and the second user interface corresponds to a user interface
                in the hierarchy that is adjacent to and higher than the first user interface
                                                Figure 15
                                                85/146

<removed-date>
                                           1600
                                            Processing unit 1608
                                           Display enabling unit 16-
              Display unit 16-                       10
                    02
<removed-apn>
                                             Detecting unit 1612
              Touch-sensitive
              surface unit 16-
                    04
                                              Moving unit 1614
              Sensor unit(s)                  Entering unit 1616
                 1606
                                             Revealing unit 1618
                                            Determining unit 1620
                                              Applying unit 1622
                                              Inserting unit 1624
                                             Removing unit 1626
                               Figure 16
                                  86/146

<removed-date>
                                           1700
                                            Processing unit 1708
              Display unit 17-             Display enabling unit 17-
                    02                               10
<removed-apn>
                                             Detecting unit 1712
              Touch-sensitive
              surface unit 17-
                    04
                                              Moving unit 1714
              Sensor Unit(s)
                  1706
                                              Entering unit 1716
                                             Operation performing
                                                  unit 1718
                               Figure 17
                                  87/146

<removed-date>
                                           1800
                                            Processing unit 1808
              Display unit 18-             Display enabling unit 18-
                    02                               10
<removed-apn>
                                             Detecting unit 1812
              Touch-sensitive
              surface unit 18-
                    04
                                              Moving unit 1814
              Sensor Unit(s)
                  1806
                                             Increasing unit 1816
                                             Changing unit 1818
                                              Varying unit 1820
                               Figure 18
                                  88/146

<removed-date>
                                           1900
                                            Processing unit 1908
              Display unit 19-             Display enabling unit 19-
                    02                               10
<removed-apn>
                                             Detecting unit 1912
              Touch-sensitive
              surface unit 19-
                    04
                                              Moving unit 1914
              Sensor Unit(s)
                  1906
                                             Increasing unit 1916
                                            Decreasing unit 1918
                                              Entering unit 1920
                                             Increasing unit 1916
                               Figure 19
                                  89/146

<removed-date>
                                           2000
                                            Processing unit 2008
              Display unit 20-             Display enabling unit 20-
                    02                               10
<removed-apn>
                                             Detecting unit 2012
              Touch-sensitive
              surface unit 20-
                    04
                                              Moving unit 2014
              Sensor Unit(s)
                  2006
                                             Revealing unit 2016
                               Figure 20
                                  90/146

<removed-date>
                                           2100
                                            Processing unit 2108
              Display unit 21-             Display enabling unit 21-
                    02                               10
<removed-apn>
                                             Detecting unit 2112
              Touch-sensitive
              surface unit 21-
                    04
              Sensor Unit(s)
                  2106
                               Figure 21
                                  91/146

                                                                                            <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                 206         Multifunction Device 100                 206         Multifunction Device 100
               502         111         164       166                502         111         164       166
         208                                                  208
                     402      Current Time 404          406               402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com                                            apple.com
         208                                                  208
               2202          2204                                   2202          2204                                     ITD
                                                                                                                           ITDL
92/146                                                                           2208
                                                                                                                           ITHL
                                                                    2206-a
                                                                                                                            IT00
                                                                                                                   Intensity of
                                                                                                                    Contact 5-
                                                                                                                       2206
                             113                 168                              113                 168
                              204                                                  204
                           Touch Screen 112                                     Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22A                                           Figure 22B

                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                206            Multifunction Device 100                                                   206         Multifunction Device 100
               506        111                         164                   166                         502         111         164       166
         208                                                                                      208
                                                                                                              402      Current Time 404          406
                                                508
                                                                                                                              apple.com
         208           510                                                                        208
                 526                                                     Safari
                                     Messages
                           Photos                                    apple.com
                                                            Detail
                                                                                          ITD           2202          2204                                     ITD
                       Messages       Tommy W...
                                                              s
                        Albums               Edit
                                    Mr. Watson, come here.
                           Nature      I want to see you.
                          Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                          ITDL                                                                 ITDL
                           Vacation
                                 Do you think this National
                                                                                                                             2212
93/146
                                     League will catch-on?
                         Maybe, but the Red Caps
                        with have trouble competing                                       ITHL                                                                 ITHL
                            Outer   Space
                              without Spalding.
                                  Agreed. There is only so
                                  much Harry Wright can do
                                  with that line-up.
                               2206-b                                                                           2210-a
                                                                                           IT00                                                                 IT00
                                                                                  Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                                                                                   Contact 5-                                                           Contact 5-
                                                                                      2206                                                                 2210
                             113                                           168                                        113                 168
                           204                                                                                         204
                        Touch Screen 112                                                                            Touch Screen 112
                                          Figure 22C                                                                         Figure 22D

                                                                                                       <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                206     Multifunction Device 100                                 206         Multifunction Device 100
               616    111         164       166                                502         111         164        166
         208                                                             208
                                                                                     402       Current Time 404         406
                         newsaboutsports.com                                                         apple.com
         208                                                             208
                                                                 ITD           2202          2204                                     ITD
                                  Tommy Bond blanks
                                  Canaries in debut.
                                                                 ITDL                                                                 ITDL
94/146                                                                                              2216
                                  Mungo Park edges               ITHL                                                                 ITHL
                                  young Tom Morris for
                               2210-b
                                  first Open                                          2214-a
                                  Championship.                   IT00                                                                 IT00
                                                         Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                                                          Contact 5-                                                           Contact 5-
                                                             2210                                                                 2214
                        113                 168                                              113                  168
                         204                                                                  204
                      Touch Screen 112                                                     Touch Screen 112
                              Figure 22E                                                            Figure 22F

                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                206            Multifunction Device 100                                                   206         Multifunction Device 100
               506        111                         164                   166                         502         111         164       166
         208                                                                                      208
                                                                                                              402      Current Time 404          406
                                                508
                                                                                                                              apple.com
         208           510                                                                        208
                 526                                                     Safari
                                     Messages
                           Photos                                    apple.com
                                                            Detail
                                                                                          ITD           2202          2204                                     ITD
                       Messages       Tommy W...
                                                              s
                        Albums               Edit
                                    Mr. Watson, come here.
                           Nature      I want to see you.
                          Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                          ITDL                                                                 ITDL
                           Vacation
                                 Do you think this National
                                                                                                                     2220
95/146
                                     League will catch-on?
                         Maybe, but the Red Caps
                        with have trouble competing                                       ITHL                                                                 ITHL
                            Outer   Space
                              without Spalding.
                                  Agreed. There is only so
                                  much Harry Wright can do
                                      with that line-up.
                                             2214-b                                                     2218-a
                                                                                           IT00                                                                 IT00
                                                                                  Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                                                                                   Contact 5-                                                           Contact 5-
                                                                                      2214                                                                 2218
                             113                                           168                                        113                 168
                           204                                                                                         204
                        Touch Screen 112                                                                            Touch Screen 112
                                          Figure 22G                                                                         Figure 22H

                                                                                                     <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                206     Multifunction Device 100                               206          Multifunction Device 100
               616    111        164       166                                502          111       164        166
         208                                                            208
                                                                                    402      Current Time 404          406
                         newsaboutsports.com                                                      apple.com
         208                                                            208
                                                                ITD                 2224
                                 Tommy Bond blanks                  2222
                                 Canaries in debut.
                                                                ITDL
96/146
                                 Mungo Park edges               ITHL
                                 young Tom Morris for
                        2218-b   first Open
                                 Championship.                   IT00
                                                        Intensity of
                                                         Contact 5-
                                                            2218
                        113                168                                              113                 168
                         204                                                                 204
                      Touch Screen 112                                                    Touch Screen 112
                              Figure 22I                                                          Figure 22J

                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                                206            Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                                506        111                         164                   166
         208                                                                  208
                     402      Current Time 404          406
                                                                                                                     508
                                    apple.com
         208                                                                  208           510
                                                                                      526                                                     Safari
                                                                                                          Messages
                                                                                                Photos                                    apple.com
           2222 2224                                                  ITD                                                        Detail
                                                                                                                                                                  ITD
                                                                                            Messages       Tommy W...
                                                                                                                                   s
                                                                                             Albums               Edit
                                                                                                         Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                Nature      I want to see you.
                                                                      ITDL                     Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                                                                  ITDL
                                                                                                Vacation
                                                                                                      Do you think this National
97/146
                                                                                                          League will catch-on?
                                                                                              Maybe, but the Red Caps
                           2228                                       ITHL                   with have trouble competing
                                                                                                 Outer   Space                                                    ITHL
                                                                                                   without Spalding.
                                                                                                       Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                       much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                           with that line-up.
                                                                       IT00                                                                                        IT00
           2226-a                                                                                  2226-b
                                                              Intensity of                                                                                Intensity of
                                                               Contact 5-                                                                                  Contact 5-
                                                                  2226                                                                                        2226
                             113                 168                                              113                                           168
                              204                                                               204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                  Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 22K                                                                  Figure 22L

                                                                                                      <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
                206          Multifunction Device 100                                206     Multifunction Device 100
               502         111        164        166                                616    111            164       166
         208                                                                  208
                     402      Current Time 404          406
                                    apple.com                                                 newsaboutsports.com
         208                                                                  208
           2222 2224                                                  ITD                                                                   ITD
                                                                                                          Tommy Bond blanks
                                                                                                          Canaries in debut.
                                                                      ITDL                                                                  ITDL
98/146
                             2232                                     ITHL                                                                  ITHL
                                                                                                          Mungo Park edges
                                                                                                          young Tom Morris for
                                                                                                          first Open
                                                                       IT00                               Championship.                      IT00
               2230-a                                                                            2230-b
                                                              Intensity of                                                          Intensity of
                                                               Contact 5-                                                            Contact 5-
                                                                  2230                                                                  2230
                             113                 168                                         113                    168
                              204                                                             204
                           Touch Screen 112                                                Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 22M                                                      Figure 22N

                                                                                               <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                 206         Multifunction Device 100                    206         Multifunction Device 100
               502         111         164       166                   502         111         164       166
         208                                                     208
                     402      Current Time 404          406                  402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com                                               apple.com
         208                                                     208
         2238                                                 2238                                                            ITD
               2234          2236                                      2234          2236
                                                                                                                              ITDL
99/146
                                                                                                                              ITHL
         2240                                                 2240
                                                                                                                               IT00
                                                                                              2244                    Intensity of
                                                                                                                       Contact 5-
                                                                                                                          2242
                             113                 168                   2242-a        113                 168
                              204                                                     204
                           Touch Screen 112                                        Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22O                                              Figure 22P

                                                                                                       <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100                                206     Multifunction Device 100
                502         111       164         166                                616    111        164       166
          208                                                                  208
                      402      Current Time 404          406
                                   apple.com                                                   newsaboutsports.com
          208                                                                  208
                                                                       ITD                                                               ITD
                                                                                                       Tommy Bond blanks
                                                                                                       Canaries in debut.
                                                                       ITDL                                                              ITDL
100/146
                                                                       ITHL                            Mungo Park edges                  ITHL
                                                                                                       young Tom Morris for
                                                                                                       first Open
                                                                        IT00                           Championship.                      IT00
                                                               Intensity of                                                      Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-                                                        Contact 5-
                                                                   2242                                                              2242
                              113
                             2242-b               168                                         113                168
                                                                                                       2242-b
                               204                                                             204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                Touch Screen 112
                                  Figure 22Q                                                        Figure 22R

                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                                                                                         Intensity of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                502         111         164        166                                                                 2250
          208
                      402      Current Time 404           406
                                      apple.com                                                                               2252-c
                                                                                                         2252-b
          208                                                                                                                          ITL
                                                                Relative Intensity              2252-a
                2246          2248     2250
                                                                                                              Pixels
101/146
                                                   2254
                                                                                         Speed of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                                                                                                                       2250
                2252-a        2252-b      2252-c
                                                                                                         2252-b               2252-c
                                                                                                2252-a
                                                                                                                                       SF
                                                                Relative Lateral Speed
                              113                  168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                  Pixels
                                     Figure 22S                                                             Figure 22T

                                                                                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100
                506        111                         164                   166
          208
                                                 508
          208           510
                  526                                                     Safari
                                      Messages
                            Photos                                    apple.com
                                                             Detail
                                                                                           ITD
                        Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s
                         Albums               Edit
                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                            Nature      I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                           ITDL
102/146                     Vacation
                                  Do you think this National
                                      League will catch-on?
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                         with have trouble competing
                             Outer   Space
                               without Spalding.                                           ITHL
                                   Agreed. There is only so
                                   much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.
                                                                                            IT0
                                                                                   Intensity of
                                                                                    Contact 5-
                                                                                       2252
                              113                                           168
                            204
                         Touch Screen 112
                                           Figure 22U

                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                                                                                         Intensity of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                502         111         164        166                                                                 2250
          208
                      402      Current Time 404           406
                                      apple.com                                                                               2256-c
          208                                                                                                                          ITL
                                                                                                2256-a
                                                                                                         2256-b
                                                                Relative Intensity
                2246          2248     2250
                                                                                                              Pixels
103/146
                                                   2258
                                                                                         Speed of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                                                                                                                       2250
                2256-a        2256-b      2256-c
                                                                                                         2256-b               2256-c
                                                                                                2256-a
                                                                                                                                       SF
                                                                Relative Lateral Speed
                              113                  168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                  Pixels
                                     Figure 22V                                                            Figure 22W

                                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 206     Multifunction Device 100
                616    111        164       166
          208
                          newsaboutsports.com
          208
                                                                 ITD
                                  Tommy Bond blanks
                                  Canaries in debut.
                                                                 ITDL
104/146
                                  Mungo Park edges               ITHL
                                  young Tom Morris for
                                  first Open
                                  Championship.                   IT00
                                                         Intensity of
                                                          Contact 5-
                                                             2256
                         113                168
                          204
                       Touch Screen 112
                               Figure 22X

                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                                                                                         Intensity of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                502         111         164        166                                                                 2250
          208
                      402      Current Time 404           406
                                      apple.com                                                                               2260-c
                                                                                                         2260-b
          208                                                                                                                          ITL
                                                                Relative Intensity              2260-a
                2246          2248     2250
                                                                                                              Pixels
105/146
                                                   2262
                                                                                         Speed of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                                                                                                                       2250
                2260-a        2260-b      2260-c
                                                                                                                              2260-c
                                                                                                2260-a
                                                                                                                                       SF
                                                                Relative Lateral Speed                   2260-b
                              113                  168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                  Pixels
                                     Figure 22Y                                                             Figure 22Z

                                                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 206     Multifunction Device 100
                616    111         164       166
          208
                          newsaboutsports.com
          208
                                                                  ITD
                                   Tommy Bond blanks
                                   Canaries in debut.
                                                                  ITDL
106/146
                                   Mungo Park edges               ITHL
                                   young Tom Morris for
                                   first Open
                                   Championship.                   IT00
                                                          Intensity of
                                                           Contact 5-
                                                              2260
                         113                 168
                          204
                       Touch Screen 112
                               Figure 22AA

                                                                                             <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                502         111         164       166
          208
                      402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com
          208
                2202          2204                                     ITD
                                                                                              2266
                                                                       ITDL
107/146                        2266
                                                                               2268
                                                                       ITHL                               2272
                                                                        IT00
                2264-a
                                                                                      2270      2271
                                                               Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-
                                                                   2264
                              113                 168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AB                                         Figure 22AC

                                                                                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100
                506        111                         164                   166
          208
                                                 508
          208           510
                  526                                                     Safari
                                      Messages
                            Photos                                    apple.com
                                                             Detail
                                                                                           ITD
                        Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s
                         Albums               Edit
                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                            Nature      I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                           ITDL
108/146                     Vacation
                                  Do you think this National
                                      League will catch-on?
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                         with have trouble competing                                       ITHL
                             Outer   Space
                               without Spalding.
                                   Agreed. There is only so
                                   2264-b
                                   much Harry Wright can do
                                        with that line-up.
                                                                                            IT00
                                                                                   Intensity of
                                                                                    Contact 5-
                                                                                       2264
                              113                                           168
                            204
                         Touch Screen 112
                                        Figure 22AD

                                                                                         <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                502         111         164       166
          208
                      402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com
          208
                2202          2204                                     ITD
                                                                                  2275
                              2275
                                                                       ITDL
109/146                                                                                               2278
                                                                       ITHL    2268
                                                                        IT00
                2274-a
                                                                                         2276       2277
                                                               Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-
                                                                   2274
                              113                 168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AE                                       Figure 22AF

                                                                                                             <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100                                 206          Multifunction Device 100
                502         111         164       166                                 502         111         164       166
          208                                                                  208
                      402      Current Time 404          406                                402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com                                                             apple.com
          208                                                                  208
                                                                       ITD           2202           2204                                     ITD
                                                                       ITDL                                                                  ITDL
110/146                     2274-b                                                   2281
                                                                       ITHL                                                                  ITHL
                                                                                                  2280-a
                                                                        IT00                                                                  IT00
                                                               Intensity of                                                          Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-                                                            Contact 5-
                                                                   2274                                                                  2280
                              113                 168                                               113                 168
                               204                                                                   204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                      Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AG                                                           Figure 22AH

                                                                                                                   <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                                                                                              Intensity of Contact 2280 on Touch Screen 112
                502         111         164       166                                                           2202
          208
                      402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com                                                       2280-b
          208                                                                                                                            ITL
                                                                                                                       2280-a
                                                                         Relative Intensity
                                                                       ITD
                2202          2204
                                                                       ITDL                                       Pixels
                                     2281
111/146
                                                                       ITHL
                2280-b
                                                                        IT00
                                                               Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-
                                                                   2280
                              113                 168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AI                                                                Figure 22AJ

                                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100                                                   206          Multifunction Device 100
                506        111                         164                   166                          502         111         164       166
          208                                                                                      208
                                                                                                                402      Current Time 404          406
                                                 508
                                                                                                                               apple.com
          208           510                                                                        208
                  526                                                     Safari
                                      Messages
                            Photos                                    apple.com
                                                             Detail
                                                                                           ITD           2202           2204                                     ITD
                        Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s
                         Albums               Edit
                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                            Nature      I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                           ITDL                                                                  ITDL
112/146                     Vacation
                                  Do you think this National
                                                                                                         2284
                                      League will catch-on?
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                         with have trouble competing                                       ITHL                                                                  ITHL
                             Outer   Space
                               without Spalding.
                                                2280-c
                                   Agreed. There is only so
                                   much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.                                                             2283-a
                                                                                            IT00                                                                  IT00
                                                                                   Intensity of                                                          Intensity of
                                                                                    Contact 5-                                                            Contact 5-
                                                                                       2280                                                                  2283
                              113                                           168                                         113                 168
                            204                                                                                          204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                             Touch Screen 112
                                        Figure 22AK                                                                           Figure 22AL

                                                                                                                   <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                                                                                              Intensity of Contact 2283 on Touch Screen 112
                502         111         164       166                                                           2202
          208
                      402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com                                                       2283-b            2283-a
          208                                                                                                                            ITL
                                                                         Relative Intensity
                                                                       ITD
                2202          2204
                                                                       ITDL                                       Pixels
                                     2284
113/146
                                                                       ITHL
                2283-b
                                                                        IT00
                                                               Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-
                                                                   2280
                              113                 168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AM                                                                Figure 22AN

                                                                                                            <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100                                 206         Multifunction Device 100
                502         111         164       166                                502         111         164       166
          208                                                                  208
                      402      Current Time 404          406                               402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com                                                            apple.com
          208                                                                  208
                                                                       ITD           2202          2204    2286                             ITD
                                                                       ITDL                                                                 ITDL
114/146                                                                                                      2288
                                      2283-c                           ITHL                                                                 ITHL
                                                                                                 2287-a
                                                                        IT00                                                                 IT00
                                                               Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-                                                           Contact 5-
                                                                   2283                                                                 2287
                              113                 168                                              113                 168
                               204                                                                  204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                     Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AO                                                          Figure 22AP

                                                                                                              <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                  206          Multifunction Device 100                                 206         Multifunction Device 100
                 502         111         164       166                                502         111         164       166
          208                                                                   208
                       402      Current Time 404          406                               402      Current Time 404          406
                                      apple.com                                                            apple.com
          208                                                                   208
                2202           2204    2286                             ITD           2202          2204     2286                            ITD
                                                                        ITDL                                                                 ITDL
115/146
                2288                                                                                  2288
                                                                        ITHL                                                                 ITHL
                                          2287-b
                                                                         IT00         2287-c                                                  IT00
                                                                Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                                                                 Contact 5-                                                           Contact 5-
                                                                    2287                                                                 2287
                               113                 168                                              113                 168
                                204                                                                  204
                             Touch Screen 112                                                     Touch Screen 112
                                     Figure 22AQ                                                          Figure 22AR

                                                                                                            <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100                                 206         Multifunction Device 100
                502         111         164       166                                502         111         164       166
          208                                                                  208
                      402      Current Time 404          406                               402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com                                                            apple.com
          208                                                                  208
                                                                       ITD                                                                  ITD
                                                                                     2202
                                                                       ITDL                                                                 ITDL
116/146
                                                                                                  2291
                                                                       ITHL                                                                 ITHL
                                                                                     2290-a
                                  2287-d                                IT00                                                                 IT00
                                                               Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-                                                           Contact 5-
                                                                   2287                                                                 2290
                              113                 168                                              113                 168
                               204                                                                  204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                     Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AS                                                          Figure 22AT

                                                                                                         <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                                                                                    Location of Contact 2290 on Touch Screen 112
                502         111         164       166                                                     2202
          208
                      402      Current Time 404          406
                                                                                                                 2290-b
                                     apple.com
                                                                                                                           ITL
          208
                                                               Pixels
                                                                                                                                 Relative Intensity
                                                                                           2290-a
                2202
                                                                                                        Time
117/146
                                                                                    Intensity of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                                                                                                          2202
                              2290-b
                                                                                                                 2290-b
                                                                                                                           ITL
                                                                                           2290-a
                                                               Relative Intensity
                              113                 168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                            Time
                                    Figure 22AU                                                      Figure 22AV

                                                                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                502         111         164       166
          208
                      402      Current Time 404          406
                                     apple.com
          208
                                                                       ITD
                2202
                                                                       ITDL
118/146
                             2294
                                                                       ITHL
                2293-a
                                                                        IT00
                                                               Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-
                                                                   2293
                              113                 168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AW

                                                                                                                             <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100
                                                                                                        Location of Contact 2290 on Touch Screen 112
                506        111                         164                   166                                                     2202
          208
                                                 508                                                                                        2293-b
          208           510
                  526                                                              Pixels
                                                                          Safari
                                                                                                                                                     ITL
                                      Messages
                            Photos                                    apple.com
                                                                                                                                                           Relative Intensity
                                                                                                               2293-a
                                                             Detail
                        Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s
                         Albums               Edit
                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                            Nature      I want to see you.
                                                                                                                            Time
                           Will come over in a bit.
119/146                     Vacation
                                  Do you think this National
                                      League will catch-on?
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                                                                                        Intensity of Contact 2252 on Touch Screen 112
                         with have trouble competing
                             Outer   Space
                               without Spalding.
                                                                                                                                     2202
                                   Agreed. There is only so
                                   much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.
                               2293-b
                                                                                                                                            2293-b
                                                                                                               2293-a
                                                                                   Relative Intensity                                                ITL
                              113                                           168
                            204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                                   Time
                                         Figure 22AX                                                                     Figure 22AY

                                                                                                    <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100
                                                               Deep Press Intensity Threshold on Touch Screen 112
                502         111         164       166                                2296   2297            2298   2299
          208
                      402      Current Time 404          406                                                         ITL
                                     apple.com
          208
                        2296
                                                                Relative Intensity
                        2297
                       2202
                                                                                                   Pixels
120/146
                        2298
                        2299
                              113                 168
                               204
                            Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 22AZ                                              Figure 22BA

                                                                                                <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100                206          Multifunction Device 100
                502         111            164    166                502         111            164    166
          208                                                  208
                      402      Current Time 404          406               402      Current Time 404           406
                                      apple.com                                            apple.com
          208                                                  208
                                    2302                                                 2302                                  ITD
                                                                                                             2312
                                                                                                                               ITDL
121/146                                                                          2306
                                                                                                                               ITHL
                                                                     2304-a
                                                                                                                                IT00
                                                                                                                       Intensity of
                                                                                                                        Contact 5-
                                                                                                                           2304
                              113                 168                              113                 168
                               204                                                  204
                            Touch Screen 112                                     Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 23A                                           Figure 23B

                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                 206         Multifunction Device 100                                   206           Multifunction Device 100
                507        111
                            502         164          166                               502          111           164       166
          208                                                                    208
                                Current
                                402     Time
                                         Current Time 404         406                        402       Current  Time404
                                                                                                        CurrentTime                    406
                                               apple.com                                                     apple.com
                  Messages         Tommy W...         Details                            Messages            Tommy W...        Details
          208                                                                    208
                                  Mr. Watson, come here.                                                   Mr. Watson, come here.
                                     I want to see you.                                                      I want to see you.
                                  2302                                   ITD                              2302                                       ITD
                        Will come over in a bit.                                               Will come over in a bit.
                                                                         ITDL                                                                        ITDL
122/146                         Do you think this National                                                Do you think this National
                                 League will catch-on?                                                     League will catch-on?
                                                                         ITHL                                                                        ITHL
                       Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                Maybe, but the Red Caps
                      with have  trouble competing
                             2304-b                                                          with have trouble competing
                            without Spalding.                                                      without Spalding.
                                                                          IT00                                                                        IT00
                                Agreed. There is only so                                                  Agreed. There is only so
                                much Harry Wright can do                                                  much Harry Wright can do
                                    with that line-up.                                                        with that line-up.
                                                                 Intensity of                                                                Intensity of
                  This is much easier than that            514    Contact 5-             This is much easier than that              514       Contact 5-
                                                                     2304                                                                        2304
                  articulate speech doohickey.                                           articulate speech doohickey.
                           113                  168                                               113                  168
                             204                                 516                                  204                                    516
                              This will change everything.                                             This will change everything.
                          Touch Screen 112                                                         Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 23C              518                                              Figure 23D              518
                                Its gr8!                                                                 Its gr8!

                                                                                                             <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100                                206         Multifunction Device 100
                502         111            164    166                                507        111       502164         166
          208                                                                  208
                      402      Current Time 404          406                                                  Time
                                                                                                      Current 402       Current Time 404            406
                                      apple.com                                                                             apple.com
                                                                                       Messages          Tommy W...         Details
          208                                                                  208
                                                                                                       Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                         I want to see you.
                                    2302                               ITD                            2302                                         ITD
                                                                                             Will come over in a bit.
                                                                       ITDL                                                                        ITDL
123/146                              2310                                                             Do you think this National
                                                                                                       League will catch-on?
                                                                       ITHL                                                                        ITHL
                                                                                            Maybe, but the Red Caps
                2308-a                                                                     with have trouble competing
                                                                                                          2308-b
                                                                                                 without Spalding.
                                                                        IT00                                                                        IT00
                                                                                                      Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                      much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                          with that line-up.
                                                               Intensity of                                                                Intensity of
                                                                Contact 5-             This is much easier than that            514         Contact 5-
                                                                   2308                                                                        2308
                                                                                       articulate speech doohickey.
                              113                 168                                           113                  168
                               204                                                                204                                      516
                                                                                                   This will change everything.
                            Touch Screen 112                                                   Touch Screen 112
                                    Figure 23E                                                          Figure 23F              518
                                                                                                      Its gr8!

                                                                                                                                    <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100                                                  206          Multifunction Device 100
                506        111                         164                   166                         502         111            164    166
          208                                                                                      208
                                                                                                               402      Current Time 404            406
                                                 508
                                                                                                                               apple.com
          208           510                                                                        208
                  526                                                     Safari
                                      Messages
                            Photos                                    apple.com
                                        2302                 Detail
                                                                                           ITD                               2302                2312
                        Messages       Tommy W...
                                                               s
                         Albums               Edit
                                     Mr. Watson, come here.
                            Nature      I want to see you.
                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                           ITDL
124/146                     Vacation
                                  Do you think this National
                                      League will catch-on?
                          Maybe, but the Red Caps
                         with have trouble competing                                       ITHL
                             Outer   Space
                               without Spalding.
                                   Agreed. There is only so
                                   much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.
                                                                                            IT00
                                                                                   Intensity of
                                                                                    Contact 5-
                                                                                       2308
                              113                                           168                                        113                 168
                            204                                                                                         204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                                            Touch Screen 112
                                           Figure 23G                                                                        Figure 23H

                                                                                                               <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                 206          Multifunction Device 100                                  206         Multifunction Device 100
                502         111            164    166                                  507        111           164        166   502
          208                                                                    208
                      402      Current Time 404            406                                          Current Time                   402    Current Time 404
                                      apple.com                                                                                                    apple.com
                                                                                         Messages          Tommy W...        Details
          208                                                                    208
                                                                                                         Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                           I want to see you.
                                    2302                2312             ITD                            2302                  2312                   ITD
                                                                                               Will come over in a bit.
                                                                         ITDL                                                                        ITDL
125/146                                                  2316                                           Do you think this National
                                                                                                         League will catch-on?
                                                                         ITHL                                                                        ITHL
                                                                                              Maybe, but the Red Caps
                2314-a                                                                       with have trouble competing          2314-b
                                                                                                   without Spalding.
                                                                          IT00                                                                        IT00
                                                                                                        Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                        much Harry Wright can do
                                                                                                            with that line-up.
                                                                 Intensity of                                                                Intensity of
                                                                  Contact 5-             This is much easier than that            514         Contact 5-
                                                                     2314                                                                        2314
                                                                                         articulate speech doohickey.
                              113                 168                                             113                  168
                               204                                                                  204                                      516
                                                                                                     This will change everything.
                            Touch Screen 112                                                     Touch Screen 112
                                     Figure 23I                                                           Figure 23J              518
                                                                                                        Its gr8!

                                                                                                               <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                 206         Multifunction Device 100                                   206          Multifunction Device 100
                507        111           164        166                                502         111         164       166
          208                                                                    208
                                 Current Time                                                402      Current Time 404          406
                                                                                                            apple.com
                  Messages          Tommy W...        Details
          208                                                                    208
                                  Mr. Watson, come here.
                                     I want to see you.
                                                                         ITD                       2318                  2320                 ITD
                        Will come over in a bit.
                                                                         ITDL                                                                 ITDL
126/146                          Do you think this National                                          2324
                                  League will catch-on?
                                                                         ITHL                                                                 ITHL
                       Maybe, but the Red Caps
                      with have trouble competing                                      2322-a
                            without Spalding.
                                                                          IT00                                                                 IT00
                                 Agreed. There is only so
                                 much Harry Wright can do
                                     with that line-up.
                                                                 Intensity of                                                         Intensity of
                  This is much easier than that            514    Contact 5-                                                           Contact 5-
                                                                     2314                                                                 2322
                  articulate speech doohickey.
                           113                  168                                                  113                 168
                             204                                 516                                  204
                              This will change everything.
                          Touch Screen 112                                                         Touch Screen 112
                                   Figure 23K              518                                              Figure 23L
                                 Its gr8!

                                                                                                                    <removed-apn>                        <removed-date>
                 206         Multifunction Device 100                                     206           Multifunction Device 100
                506       111            164          166                                506         111              164             166
                            508
          208                                                                      208                                    508
                  510
                                  402        Current Time 404       406                              510
                                                                  526-b                                                         402         Current Time 404              406
                                  Current Time apple.com                                       526
                                                                                                                   Current Time                 apple.com
          208          Messages     Tommy W...          Details                    208
                                                                                                       Messages   Tommy W...                Details
                                                                                                               Photos
                                   Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                                                                                      Mr. Watson, come here.
                         2318           I want to see you.
                                                       2320                ITD                       2318Albums         I want
                                                                                                                            Editto see2320
                                                                                                                                       you.
                                                                                                                                                                       ITD
                          Will come over in a bit.                                                         Nature
                                                                                                           Will come over in a bit.
                                                                           ITDL                                                                                        ITDL
127/146                                  think this National
                                  Do you 2324                                                                      Do you think this National
                                                                                                                                       2324
                                   League will catch-on?                                                            League will catch-on?
                                                                                                           Vacation
                                                                           ITHL                          Maybe, but the Red Caps                                       ITHL
                         Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                        with have trouble competing
                        with have trouble competing                                                           without Spalding.
                              without
                              2322-bSpalding.                                                              Outer Space    2322-c
                                                                                                                   Agreed. There is only so
                                  Agreed. There is only so                  IT00                                   much Harry Wright can do                             IT00
                                  much Harry Wright can do                                                             with that line-up.
                                      with that line-up.
                                                                   Intensity of                                                                                Intensity of
                                                                    Contact 5-                                                                                  Contact 5-
                                                                       2322                                                                                        2322
                           113                        168                                              113                            168
                            204                                                                         204
                         Touch Screen 112                                                            Touch Screen 112
                                  Figure 23M                                                                  Figure 23N

                                                                                                                            <removed-apn>                          <removed-date>
                 206            Multifunction Device 100                                         206           Multifunction Device 100
                506          111            164         166                                     506         111              164                166
                                                          508
          208         510                                                                 208
                                                                 402   Current Time 404               406                508
                                   Current Time                                                             510
                                                                          apple.com
                                                                                                      526                     402            Current Time 404       406
                      Messages         Tommy W...         Details                                                         Current Time
          208                                                                             208                                                   apple.com
                                                                                                                                                  Detail
                                      Photos                                                                 Messages       Tommy W...
                                     Mr. Watson, come here.                                                            Photos                       s
                                                                                                                            Mr. Watson, come here.
                                                 see you.                         ITD                                                                                      ITD
                            2318Albums I want to Edit   2320                                                2318Albums              Edit       2320
                                                                                                                               I want to see you.
                            Will come over in a bit.
                                   Nature                                                                              come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                  WillNature
                                                                                  ITDL                                                                                     ITDL
128/146                             Do you think this National                                                            Do you think this National
                                                                                                                           League will catch-on?
                                      League
                                         2324will catch-on?
                                   Vacation                                                                         Vacation
                                                                                  ITHL                        Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                 ITHL
                      Maybe, but the Red Caps with                                                              have trouble competing
                        have trouble competing                                                                     without Spalding.
                                                                                                                   Outer Space
                                Outer
                           without    Space
                                    Spalding.                 2322-d                                                      2322-e
                                                                                                                          Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                  IT00                                  much Harry Wright can do with                       IT00
                                     Agreed. There is only so                                                                   that line-up.
                                     much Harry Wright can do
                                         with that line-up.
                                                                       Intensity of                                                                                Intensity of
                                                                        Contact 5-                                                                                  Contact 5-
                                                                           2322                                                                                        2322
                               113                      168                                                   113                              168
                               204                                                                             204
                            Touch Screen 112                                                                Touch Screen 112
                                      Figure 23O                                                                      Figure 23P

                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                 206           Multifunction Device 100                                      206         Multifunction Device 100
                502          111           164       166                                    507 502 111            164        166
          208                                                                         208
                      402        CurrentTime
                                Current  Time404                406                                402     Current
                                                                                                            CurrentTime
                                                                                                                    Time 404                406
                                      apple.com                                                                  apple.com
                  Messages            Tommy W...        Details                               Messages        Tommy W...          Details
          208                                                                         208
                                    Mr. Watson, come here.                                                  Mr. Watson, come here.
                                       I want to see you.                                                      I want to see you.
                                                                              ITD                             2302                                        ITD
                        Will come over in a bit.                                                   Will come over in a bit.
                                                                              ITDL                                                                        ITDL
129/146                            Do you think this National                                              Do you think this National
                                    League will catch-on?                                                   League will catch-on?
                                                                              ITHL                                                                        ITHL
                    Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                     Maybe, but the Red Caps
                   with have trouble competing
                2326-a                                                                         with have trouble competing
                                                                                            2326-a
                         without Spalding.                                                           without Spalding.
                                                                               IT00                                                                        IT00
                                   Agreed. There is only so                                                Agreed. There is only so
                                   much Harry Wright can do                                                much Harry Wright can do
                                       with that line-up.                                                      with that line-up.
                                                                      Intensity of                                                                Intensity of
                  This is much easier than that              514       Contact 5-             This is much easier than that           514          Contact 5-
                                                                          2326                                                                        2326
                  articulate speech doohickey.                                                articulate speech doohickey.
                           113                  168                                                    113                  168
                               204                                    516                              204                                        516
                                This will change everything.                                            This will change everything.
                            Touch Screen 112                                                        Touch Screen 112
                                     Figure 23Q              518                                             Figure 23R               518
                                   Its gr8!                                                               Its gr8!

                                                                                                                                     <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
                 206        Multifunction Device 100                                          206             Multifunction Device 100
                507 508 111            164         166                                       506         111                         164                   166
          208                                                                          208
                         402 Current Time
                                Current Time 404                 406
                                                                                                                               508
                  Messages                 apple.com
                                  Tommy W...           Details
          208                                                                          208            510
                                Mr. Watson, come here.                                         526                                                      Safari
                                                                                                                    Messages
                                                                                                          Photos                                    apple.com
                                   I want to see you.
                                                                               ITD                                                         Detail
                                                                                                                                                                            ITD
                                                                                                      Messages       Tommy W...
                                                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                       Albums               Edit
                                                                                                                   Mr. Watson, come here.
                       Will come over in a bit.                                                           Nature      I want to see you.
                                                                               ITDL                      Will come over in a bit.
                                                                                                                                                                            ITDL
130/146                        Do you think this National                                                 Vacation
                                                                                                                Do you think this National
                                                                                                                    League will catch-on?
                                League will catch-on?
                                                                                                        Maybe, but the Red Caps
                                                                               ITHL                    with have trouble competing                                          ITHL
                                                                                                           Outer   Space
                                                                                                             without Spalding.
                    Maybe, but the Red Caps                                                                      Agreed. There is only so
                                                                                                                 much Harry Wright can do
                   with have trouble competing
                2326-a                                                                       2326-a                  with that line-up.
                         without Spalding.
                                                                                IT00                                                                                         IT00
                              Agreed. There is only so
                              much Harry Wright can do
                                  with that line-up.
                                                                       Intensity of                                                                                 Intensity of
                  This is much easier than that            514          Contact 5-                                                                                   Contact 5-
                                                                           2326                                                                                         2326
                  articulate speech doohickey.
                           113                  168                                                         113                                           168
                           204                                         516                                204
                            This will change everything.
                        Touch Screen 112                                                               Touch Screen 112
                                 Figure 23S                518                                                           Figure 23T
                               Its gr8!

<removed-date>
                                                       2400
                         2402 Display, on the display, a user interface for an application
                 2404 Detect an edge input that includes detecting a change in a characteristic
                   intensity of a contact proximate to an edge of the touch-sensitive surface
<removed-apn>
                      2406 In response to detecting the edge input:
                             in accordance with a determination that the edge input meets system-
              gesture criteria, perform an operation that is independent of the application,
              wherein:
                                      the system-gesture criteria include intensity criteria;
                                      the system-gesture criteria include a location criterion that is
              met when the intensity criteria for the contact are met while the contact is within a
              first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface; and
                                     the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is
              determined based on one or more characteristics of the contact
                    2408 The change in the characteristic intensity of the contact proximate to
              the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is detected at a location that corresponds to
              a respective operation in the application
                        2410 In response to detecting the edge input:
                               in accordance with a determination that the edge input meets
                 application-gesture criteria and does not meet the system-gesture criteria,
                 perform the respective operation in the application instead of performing the
                 operation that is independent of the application
                2412 The intensity criteria is met when: the characteristic intensity of the contact
                  proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is above a first intensity
              threshold; and the characteristic intensity of the contact proximate to the edge of the
                          touch-sensitive surface is below a second intensity threshold
                                                         A
                                                   Figure 24A
                                                   131/146

<removed-date>
                                                        A
                2414 the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface has first boundaries
                 when the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has first
               spatial properties and second boundaries, different from the first boundaries when
              the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has second spatial
                                                     properties
<removed-apn>
                                                         B
              2416 Detecting the edge input includes:
                      detecting a first portion of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface
              proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface; and
                      extrapolating, based on the first portion of the contact, a second portion of
              the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface that extends
              beyond the edge of the touch sensitive surface,
                      wherein the location of the contact, for the purposes of satisfying the location
              criteria, is determined based on at least in part on the extrapolated second portion
              of the contact
                       2418 In accordance with a determination that the contact proximate to
                the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has first spatial properties, the first
                region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is located entirely off of the
                touch-sensitive surface; and
                       in accordance with a determination that the contact proximate to the
                edge of the touch-sensitive surface has second spatial properties, the first
                region relative to the touch-sensitive surface includes a first portion located on
                the touch-sensitive surface, proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive
                surface, and a second portion located off of the touch-sensitive surface,
                extending away from the edge of the touch sensitive surface
                                                         C
                                                   Figure 24B
                                                   132/146

<removed-date>
                                                       2416
                                                         C
                       2420 In accordance with a determination that the contact proximate to
                the edge of the touch-sensitive surface has first spatial properties, the first
<removed-apn>
                region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is located entirely off of the
                touch-sensitive surface, extending away from a first boundary located at a
                fixed distance from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface; and
                       in accordance with a determination that the contact proximate to the
                edge of the touch-sensitive surface has second spatial properties, the first
                region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is located entirely off of the
                touch-sensitive surface, extending away from a second boundary located at a
                second fixed distance from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface, wherein
                the second fixed distance is shorter than the first fixed distance.
                     2422 In accordance with a determination that a portion of the contact
              proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface extends beyond the edge of
              the touch-sensitive surface, the location of the contact is a location of the portion of
              the contact that extends beyond the edge of the touch-sensitive surface farthest
              from the edge of the touch-sensitive surface, based on a projection of the location
              of the portion of the contact that extends beyond the edge of the touch-sensitive
              surface; and
                     in accordance with a determination that no portion of the contact proximate
              to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface extends beyond the edge of the touch-
              sensitive surface, the location of the contact is a location of the contact closest to
              the edge of the touch-sensitive surface
                     2424 The one or more characteristics, upon which the first region relative to
              the touch-sensitive surface is based, include a size of the contact proximate to the
              edge of the touch-sensitive surface
                                                         D
                                                 Figure 24C
                                                   133/146

<removed-date>
                                                     2424
                                                       D
                      2426 The size of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-
               sensitive surface is based on one or more of: a measure of the capacitance of
<removed-apn>
               the contact, a shape of the contact, and an area of the contact
                                                     2414
                                                       B
                     2428 A difference in the first boundaries of the first region and the
               second boundaries of the first region is greater near a central portion of the
               edge of the touch-sensitive surface and is smaller near a distal portion of the
               edge of the touch-sensitive surface
                      2430 The first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface has a first or
              second size when the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface
                 is moving at a speed above a first speed threshold and a third size when the
              contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface is moving at a speed
                                        below the first speed threshold
                    2432 The system-gesture criteria further include direction criteria specifying a
                predetermined direction of motion on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the
                 direction criteria is met when the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-
                sensitive surface moves in the predetermined direction on the touch-sensitive
                                                     surface
                                                       E
                                               Figure 24D
                                                 134/146

<removed-date>
                                                      2432
                                                        E
                      2434 After initiating performance of the operation that is independent of
                the application:
<removed-apn>
                              detect movement, on the touch-sensitive surface, of the contact
                      proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive surface: and
                              in response to detecting the movement of the contact:
                                     in accordance with a determination that the movement of
                      the contact is in the predetermined direction, continue performance of
                      the operation that is independent of the application; and
                                     in accordance with a determination that the movement of
                      the contact is in a direction other than the predetermined direction,
                      terminate performance of the operation that is independent of the
                      application
                        2436 The system-gesture criteria further include a failure condition that
               prevents the system-gesture criteria from being met when the contact proximate to
              the edge of the touch-sensitive surface moves outside of a second region relative to
                     the touch-sensitive surface before the system-gesture criteria are met
                            2438 The system-gesture criteria include a requirement that the
               characteristic intensity of the contact proximate to the edge of the touch-sensitive
              surface increases from an intensity below an intensity threshold to an intensity at or
               above the intensity threshold while the contact is within the first region relative to
                                             the touch-sensitive surface
                                     2440 The intensity criteria vary based on time
                     2442 The operation that is independent of the application is an operation for
                           navigation between applications of the electronic device
                                                        F
                                                Figure 24E
                                                  135/146

<removed-date>
                                                F
               2444 The respective operation in the application is a key press operation
                  2446 The respective operation in the application is a page switching
                                          operation
<removed-apn>
               2448 The respective operation in the application is for navigation within a
                           hierarchy associated with the application
                2450 The respective operation in the application is a preview operation
              2452 The respective operation in the application is a menu display operation
                                        Figure 24F
                                          136/146

<removed-date>
                                                         2500
                           2502 Display, on the display, a first view of a first application
              2504 While displaying the first view, detect a first portion of a first input that includes
                            detecting a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface
<removed-apn>
                     2506 In response to detecting the first portion of the first input, in accordance
                  with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets application-
                 switching criteria, concurrently display, on the display, portions of a plurality of
               application views including the first application view and a second application view
                     2508 While concurrently displaying the portions of the plurality of application
              views, detect a second portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact
                       2510 In response to detecting the second portion of the first input that
              includes liftoff of the first contact:
                              in accordance with a determination that the second portion of the first
              input meets first-view display criteria, wherein the first-view display criteria include a
              criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a first region of
              the touch-sensitive surface, cease to display the portion of the second application
              view and display the first application view on the display; and
                               in accordance with a determination that the second portion of the first
                    input meets multi-view display criteria, wherein the multi-view display criteria
                  includes a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a
                second region of the touch-sensitive surface that is different from the first region of
                 the touch-sensitive surface, maintaining concurrent display of at least a portion of
               the first application view and at least a portion of the second application view on the
                                   display after detecting the liftoff of the first contact
                                                           A
                                                    Figure 25A
                                                     137/146

<removed-date>
                                                          A
                      2512 In response to detecting the second portion of the first input that
              includes liftoff of the first contact:
                              in accordance with a determination that the second portion of the first
              input meets second-view display criteria, wherein the second-view display criteria
<removed-apn>
              includes a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a
              third region of the touch-sensitive surface that is different from the first region of the
              touch-sensitive surface and the second region of the touch-sensitive surface, cease
              to display the first application view and display the second application view on the
              display
                      2514 After detecting the first portion of the first input that includes detecting
              the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface, and before detecting the second
              portion of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact:
                             detect movement of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface;
              and
                             in response to detecting the movement of the first contact, in
              accordance with a determination that the first contact moves into the second region
              of the touch-sensitive surface, decrease respective sizes of the plurality of
              application views including the first application view and the second application view
                        2516 While decreasing respective sizes of the plurality of application
                views including the first application view and the second application view:
                               detect continued movement of the first contact on the touch-
                sensitive surface; and
                               in response to detecting the continued movement of the first
                contact, in accordance with a determination that the first contact moves into
                the third region of the touch-sensitive surface, increase respective sizes of the
                plurality of application views including the first application view and the second
                application view
                                                          B
                                                 Figure 25B
                                                    138/146

<removed-date>
                                                          B
                      2518 After detecting the first portion of the first input that includes detecting a
              first contact on the touch-sensitive surface, and before detecting the second portion
              of the first input that includes liftoff of the first contact:
                              detect movement of the first contact on the touch-sensitive surface;
<removed-apn>
              and
                              in response to detecting the movement of the first contact, in
              accordance with a determination that the first contact crosses a boundary between
              two respective regions on the touch-sensitive surface, provide a tactile output
                       2520 Display of respective portions of the plurality of application views are
              partially overlapping, including that the displayed portion of the first application view
                      partially overlaps the displayed portion of the second application view
                     2522 The first application view and the second application view are views of
                                              the same application
                     2524 The first application view is a view of a first application and the second
                 application view is a view of a second application that is different from the first
                                                    application
                                                          C
                                                 Figure 25C
                                                    139/146

<removed-date>
                                                         C
                      2526 In accordance with a determination that the second portion of the first
              input meets multi-view display criteria, wherein the multi-view display criteria include
              a criterion that is met when the liftoff of the first contact is detected in a second
              region of the touch-sensitive surface that is different from the first region of the
              touch-sensitive surface, maintaining concurrent display of at least a portion of the
<removed-apn>
              first application view and at least a portion of the second application view on the
              display includes:
                              entering a user interface selection mode; and
                              displaying a plurality of user interface representations in a stack on
              the display, including the at least a portion of the first application view and at least a
              portion of the second application view, wherein:
                                     at least a first user interface representation, corresponding to
              the at least a portion of the second application view, and at least a second user
              interface representation, corresponding to the at least a portion of the first
              application view and disposed above the first user interface representation in the
              stack, are visible on the display,
                                     the second user interface representation is offset from the first
              user interface representation in a first direction, and
                                     the second user interface representation partially exposes the
              first user interface representation
                        2528 While in the user interface selection mode:
                        detect a second input including a drag gesture by a second contact at a
                location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a location of the
                first user interface representation on the display, the second contact moving
                across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that corresponds to the first
                direction on the display; and,
                        while the second contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive surface
                that corresponds to the location of the first user interface representation on the
                display and moving across the touch-sensitive surface in a direction that
                corresponds to the first direction on the display:
                                move the first user interface representation in the first direction
                on the display at a first speed in accordance with a speed of the second
                contact on the touch-sensitive surface; and
                                move the second user interface representation, disposed above
                the first user interface representation, in the first direction at a second speed
                greater than the first speed
                                                         D
                                                 Figure 25D
                                                    140/146

<removed-date>
                                                     2526
                                                      D
                      2530 While in the user interface selection mode, include display of at
              least two of the plurality of user interface representations in the stack, detect a
              selection input directed to one of the at least two user interface
<removed-apn>
              representations in the stack; and,
                      in response to detecting the selection input:
                             cease to display the stack; and
                             display a user interface that corresponds to the selected one of
              the at least two user interface representations
                     2532 While displaying, in the stack, at least the first user interface
              representation and the second user interface representation above the first
              user interface representation:
                             detect a deletion input directed to the first user interface
              representation; and,
                             in response to detecting the deletion input directed to the first
              user interface representation:
                                    remove the first user interface representation from a first
              position in the stack
                      2534 Entering a user interface selection mode includes:
                      animating a decrease in size of the first application view when
              transitioning into the second user interface representation; and
                      animating a decrease in size of the second application view when
              transitioning into the first user interface representation.
                                                      E
                                              Figure 25E
                                                 141/146

<removed-date>
                                                            E
                        2536 The application-switching criteria include intensity criteria; and
              the system-gesture criteria include a location criterion that is met when the intensity
              criteria for the contact are met while the contact is within a first region relative to the
                                              touch-sensitive surface
<removed-apn>
                    2538 The size of the first region relative to the touch-sensitive surface is
                       determined based on one or more characteristics of the contact
                2540 The intensity criteria of the application-switching criteria are met when:
                       the characteristic intensity of the first contact is above a first intensity
                threshold; and
                       the characteristic intensity of the first contact is below a second
                intensity threshold
                                                            F
                 2542 In response to detecting the first portion of the first input, in accordance
                     with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets the
                              application-switching criteria, provide tactile output
                       2544 In response to detecting the first portion of the first input, in
                accordance with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets
                preview criteria:
                              move the first view of the first application partially off of the
                display; and
                               display a portion of the second application view at a location of the
                display from which the first view of the first application was displaced
                                                           G
                                                  Figure 25F
                                                     142/146

<removed-date>
                                                        2536
                                                        2544
                                                         G
                          2546 The preview criteria includes:
<removed-apn>
                          a location criterion that is met while the contact is within the first
                   region relative to the touch-sensitive surface; and
                          an intensity criteria that is met when the characteristic intensity of
                   the contact is above a preview intensity threshold and below an
                   application-switching intensity threshold
                      2548 The application-switching criteria include a criterion that is met when an
                    intensity of the first contact increases above a first intensity threshold; and
                         maintaining concurrent display of at least a portion of the first application
                  view and at least a portion of the second application view on the display after
                  detecting the liftoff of the first contact includes displaying a multitasking user
                                                      interface; and
                         the method includes, in response to detecting the first portion of the first
              input, in accordance with a determination that the first portion of the first input meets
               multitasking criteria that include a criterion that is met when an intensity of the first
                contact increases above a second intensity threshold that is greater than the first
                           intensity threshold, displaying the multitasking user interface.
                                                          H
                                                Figure 25G
                                                    143/146

<removed-date>
                                                    H
                                                  2536
                                                  2540
                                                    F
<removed-apn>
                     2550 In response to detecting the first portion of the first input, in
              accordance with a determination that the first portion of the first input
              meets multitasking criteria:
                             enter a user interface selection mode; and
                             display a plurality of user interface representation in a stack
              on the display, including the at least a portion of the first application view
              and at least a portion of the second application view, wherein:
                                     at least a first user interface representation,
              corresponding to the at least a portion of the second application view,
              and at least a second user interface representation, corresponding to the
              at least a portion of the first application view and disposed above the first
              user interface representation in the stack, are visible on the display,
                                     the second user interface representation is offset
              from the first user interface representation in a first direction, and
                                     the second user interface representation partially
              exposes the first user interface representation
                        2552 The multitasking criteria include intensity criteria that
                are met when the characteristic intensity of the first contact is above
                                  the second intensity threshold
                                2554 The multitasking criteria include a location
                    criterion that is met when the multitasking intensity criteria are
                      met while the contact is within the first region of the touch-
                                            sensitive surface
                                             Figure 25H
                                              144/146

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                             Electronic Device 2600
                                                      Processing Unit 2608
              Display Unit 2602                         Display Enabling
                                                           Unit 2610
                                                         Detecting Unit
               Touch-Sensitive                               2612
              Surface Unit 2604
                                                        Determining Unit
                                                             2614
               Sensor Unit(s)
                   2606
                                   Figure 26
                                  145/146

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                             Electronic Device 2700
                                                      Processing Unit 2708
                                                        Display Enabling
              Display Unit 2702
                                                           Unit 2710
                                                         Detecting Unit
               Touch-Sensitive                               2712
              Surface Unit 2704
                                                        Determining Unit
                                                             2714
               Sensor Unit(s)
                   2706
                                   Figure 27
                                  146/146

