                                          ABSTRACT
The invention relates to articulated road trains consisting of one prime mover, one semi
trailer and at least one improved dog trailer. Each dog trailer consists of a semi-trailer, the
front of which is supported by an improved dolly.
A slave reference point on each improved dolly is made to follow a master reference point
on the prime mover by controlling the angle between the longitudinal axes of each dolly and
the drawbar attaching it to the preceding trailer. The correct angle is deduced by numerical
means which gives the correct value even for non-steady state turns. Alternatively, the
angle between the longitudinal axes of the dolly and the drawbar attaching it to the
preceding trailer can be fixed at zero degrees, and the path of the dolly controlled by
turning the dolly wheels which are now rotatably attached to the ends of the fixed axles of
the dolly. The correct wheel angles of the dolly wheels are deduced by numerical means
which gives the correct wheel angles even for non-steady state turns.
Minor modification of the forward motion system, enables no-skill reversing of a large
number of dog trailers. In this case slave reference points towards the rear of the semi
trailers is made to follow the path of a master reference point towards the rear of the last
semi-trailer.
If the articulation angle between the drawbar and the longitudinal axis of the preceding
semi-trailer, and the articulation angle between the longitudinal axes of the dolly and the
following semi-trailer are also controlled to achieve cooperative redundancy, jack-knifing of
the train should no longer be possible.

          Editorial Note
            <removed-apn>
There are nine pages of description only

                               IMPROVED ARTICULATED VEHICLE
Technical Field
The invention relates to articulated trains consisting of one prime mover, one semi-trailer and
at least one improved dog trailer. Each improved dog trailer consists of a semi-trailer, the
front of which is supported by an improved dolly.
Prior Art
Spark (Australian Patent 2010201258) describes and claims an improved B double semi
trailer, where slave reference points located towards the rear of each trailer are made to
follow the path of a master reference point located towards the rear of the prime mover. This
is achieved by steering all the wheels of each trailer where the wheel angles required are
determined in real time by a numerical approximation. Note that this method works for any
path, and not just for steady state paths where all the rigid bodies (prime mover, first semi
trailer and second semi-trailer) have the same instant centre.
Spark (Australian Patent Application <removed-apn>) describes and claims an improved dog
trailer, where two slave reference points located on each dog trailer are made to follow the
path of a master reference point located on the truck. This is achieved by steering all the
wheels of each trailer where the wheel angles required are determined in real time by a
numerical approximation. Note that this method works for any path, and not just for steady
state paths where all the rigid bodies (truck, first dolly, semi-trailer, second dolly and second
semi-trailer) have the same instant centre.
In this previous work, all trailer wheels are steered so that all the wheels on one trailer have
a single instant centre. This eliminates scuffing and makes the path of the trailers
kinematically determinate. However, the disadvantage of this approach is that having to
steer all trailer wheels involves significant complication and expense.
Summary of the present invention
In the present invention, complication and cost is reduced by only steering the dollies to
reduce off-tracking (corner cutting). Scuffing associated with four or six-wheel axle sets is
accepted, as it is for traditional semi-trailers and dog trailers.
In the present invention, the presence of scuffing makes the path of the dollies and the
trailers kinematically indeterminate. To overcome this uncertainty, in the first instance, it is
assumed that the path of each dolly or trailer is approximated by the path of a notional
master wheel located at the centre of each set of parallel wheels.
The actual path of each dolly or trailer can be determined by locating angle-measuring
instrumented non load-bearing castors (hereafter referred to as "castors") at opposite ends
of each semi-trailer. These instrumented castors are pressed against the ground so that they
record the movement of the ground relative to their position on the semi-trailer. Note that a
vertically-aligned video camera or modified laser mouse could be used as a virtual
instrumented castor. In this case no contact with the ground is required. There is no delay
associated with the rotation of the castor to a new equilibrium position, and no problems with
shimmy. Also, the error caused by the offset of the wheeled castor is eliminated.
The problems to be solved

The solution uses the principle of cooperative redundancy to solve some of the safety
problems inherent to trailers consisting of a prime mover and associated semi-trailer and at
least one dog trailer. The problems to be eliminated are as follows:
    1. Off tracking of the dollies of the dog trailers.
    2. Difficulty of reversing trains of semi-trailers and dog trailers.
    3. Jack-knifing of the prime mover, semi-trailer, dog trailer train.
    The solutions proposed
    The essential feature of the invention is that a slave reference point on each dolly is
    made to follow the path of a master reference point at or close to the axis of the fifth
    wheel of the prime mover. This is achieved in the first instance by controlling the angle
    between the drawbar and the longitudinal axis of the associated dolly. If the angle
    between the drawbar and the longitudinal axis of the preceding semi-trailer to which it is
    attached, is also positively controlled, we have one level of redundancy. If the angle
    between the longitudinal axis of the dolly and the longitudinal axis of the associated
    semi-trailer is also positively controlled, a second level of redundancy results. If these
    three angles are controlled so that they produce identical steering effects, we now have
    two levels of cooperative redundancy for each dog trailer dolly. Note that the prime
    mover can be regarded as a powered dolly whose drawbar is replaced by the axis of the
    prime mover. In this case the "draw bar" is rotated by turning the front wheels of the
    prime mover. Ifwe also positively control the angle of the fifth wheel to produce the
    same steering effect, we have a first level of cooperative redundancy. We have now
    replaced a linkage of 2N rigid bodies, where N is the number of semi-trailers, with a
    single rigid body whose shape is controlled to match the path selected by the driver.
    Note that the improved dollies must be positively rotated to be tangential to the master
    path.
    The invention may be better understood by reference to the following figures.
    Figure 1 shows a train comprising a prime mover, semi-trailer and two traditional dog
    trailers executing a steady state turn.
    Figure 2 shows a train comprising a prime mover, semi-trailer and two improved dog
    trailers being driven forward around a steady state turn.
    Figure 3 shows a train comprising a prime mover, semi-trailer and two improved dog
    trailers being driven forward around a non-steady state turn.
    Figure 4 shows a train comprising a prime mover, semi-trailer and two improved dog
    trailers being driven in reverse around a steady state turn.
    Figure 5 shows the location of the notional master wheels used to derive the path of the
    rigid bodies and the location of the angle-measuring castors used to determine the
    instant centres of the semi-trailers.
    Figure 6 shows the location of the instrumented castors used to deduce the instant
    centres and thereby the actual path of the rigid bodies.
    Figure 7 shows the structure of an instrumented castor?
    Figure 8(a) shows a vertical section AA which is close to the longitudinal axis of an
    improved dog trailer, showing three rotary actuators used to positively control the three
    articulation angles of an improved dog trailer.

     Figure 8(b) shows a stepped horizontal section BB which is just above the improved
     dolly, showing three rotary actuators used to positively control the three articulation
     angles of an improved dog trailer.
     Figure 9 shows three pairs of linear actuators that could be used to positively control the
     three articulation angles of an improved dog trailer.
     Figure 10 shows an alternative means of steering the dolly wheels independently of the
     drawbar. Here a traditional dolly/draw bar is fitted with axles with steerable wheels.
     Figure 10(a) shows a vertical section CC through the longitudinal axis of the dolly with
     steerable wheels and the semi-trailer it supports.
     Figure 10(b) shows a horizontal section DD that lies between the dolly with steerable
     wheels and the semi-trailer it supports.
     Figure 10@ shows a section through the longitudinal axis of a centring actuator.
     If we have N semi-trailers, we will 2N rigid bodies or links, N-1 dollies and one prime
     mover, which can be regarded as a (drawbar-less) dolly which is steered by turning two
     or more front wheels where the rear wheels are powered (see above).
          1. Reducing off tracking of a train consisting of one prime mover, one semi
              trailer and N-1 dog trailers.
If a train of one prime mover 1, an associated semi-trailer 2 and N-1 dog trailers is moving in
a straight line, the rigid bodies will all have instant centres perpendicular to their motion
located at infinity. If the radius of curvature of prime mover is reduced to a finite value, the
radius of curvature of the dog trailers will progressively reduce until the prime mover and
trailers eventually asymptotically achieve the same instant centre. When the whole train has
a single instant centre the shape of the train becomes stable and the turn is now a steady
state turn. See Figure 1.
It can be seen from Figure 1 that the outermost front wheel 3 of the prime mover has a
steady state path with the maximum radius. The radius of the steady state path of the inner
drive wheels 4 of the prime mover will be less, and the radius of the steady state path of
inner second last wheel 5 of the first semi-trailer will be less again.
The radius of the steady state path of inner second last wheel 6 of the second semi-trailer
will be less again and the radius of the steady state path of inner second last wheel 7 of the
third semi-trailer will be less again. The swept path width SPW of the wheels of the train is
the difference between the steady state radii of the outer front wheel of the prime mover and
the inner second last wheel of the third semi-trailer. As the SPW is almost equal to the
steady state radius of the outer front wheel of the prime mover, it is not possible to add a
fourth trailer and still attain a steady state for a turn of the curvature kappa depicted in Figure
1 (where curvature equals the reciprocal of the radius of curvature). This is because it is no
longer possible for the axis of the second last wheel of the fourth trailer to pass through the
common instant centre.
Figure 2 shows a train similar to that shown in Figure 1 except that the longitudinal axis of
the last two dollies 8 and 9 no longer coincide with the longitudinal axis of the associated
draw bar. In this improved train the angle between the drawbar 10 and the longitudinal axis
of the dolly 11 is controlled to ensure that the second and third semi-trailers follow the same
track as the first semi-trailer. In this case slave reference points coincide with the articulation
(or fifth wheel) axis of the first and second dollies 8 and 9, and these follow a master path

generated by the master reference point which is the articulation (or fifth wheel) axis of the
prime mover 12. In this case the sweep path of all the semi-trailers will be the same. At least
two more improved dog trailers could be added to this train. The number of trailers is only
limited by the maximum curvature of the steady state turn that avoids interference between
the first and last rigid bodies in the train.
The curvature K of the path of the notional master wheel 13 located at the midpoint of the
drive wheels of the prime mover is approximately proportional to the rotation of the steering
wheel. From the variation of K and the speed of the prime mover with respect to time, the
trajectory of the master reference point can be calculated by an on-board computer by
numerical integration of the Serret-Frenet equations. From this trajectory, the required
instant centre for each semi-trailer can be deduced. From these instant centres the angle
required between each dolly 8, 9 and its draw bar 10 can be calculated and implemented by
a control system. The on-board computer can also calculate the correct angle between the
longitudinal axis of the dolly 11 and the longitudinal axis of the preceding semi-trailer 14, 15.
If this angle is enforced by a control system we have one level of cooperative redundancy
between two steering systems. The on-board computer can also deduce the correct angle
between the draw bar 10 and the longitudinal axis of the semi-trailer following it 15 and 16. If
this angle is also enforced by a control system, we have a second level of cooperative
redundancy between three steering systems. This cooperative redundancy can be applied to
all dog trailers.
Note that the on-board computer can also deduce the correct angle between the longitudinal
axis of the prime mover 17 and the following semi-trailer 14. If this angle is also enforced by
a control system, we have cooperative redundancy between the steering effect of the angle
of the front wheels of the prime mover and the angle of the steering effect of the active
articulation axis (or fifth wheel). If the maximum possible cooperative redundancy is imposed
on an improved train consisting of 2N rigid bodies is transformed into a single rigid body of
variable shape where this shape matches the master path selected by the driver with the
steering wheel. Note that the longitudinal axis of all N-1 improved dollies will be positively
controlled to be tangential to the master path.
Figure 3 shows a train comprising a prime mover 17, a semi-trailer 14 and two dog trailers
15 and 16 executing a path of variable curvature. The master path commences with a
straight line followed by a sharp 180 degrees left hand turn followed by a less sharp right
hand turn. Note that the sharp left hand turn is too short to allow a steady state turn to be
attained so that the last 16 and second last semi-trailers 15 executing the sharp left hand
turn have different instant centres, as do their respective drawbars 10. However, the prime
mover 17 and first semi-trailer 14 executing the less sharp right hand turn are now executing
a steady state turn, as indicated by their single instant centre.
Note that the technique for determining the correct articulation angles outlined above works
for both steady state and non-steady state turns. For steady state turns all rigid bodies have
a single instant centre whereas for non-steady state turns each rigid body will generally have
a unique instant centre. However, the line joining the instant centres of two linked rigid
bodies must pass through their articulation point in accord with Kennedy's three centre
theorem.
         2. Means of reversing a train consisting of a prime mover, semi-trailer and two
             improved dog trailers.
Figure 4 shows a train consisting of a prime mover 17, semi-trailer 14 and two improved dog
trailers 15 and 16 being reversed around a steady-state turn. Three extra pieces of hardware

are required. The first is a reversing camera 18 fitted to the rear of the last semi-trailer. The
second is an auxiliary joystick (or steering wheel) to steer the last semi-trailer. The third is an
automated means of turning the steering wheel of the prime mover.
The driver uses the reversing camera 18 and auxiliary joy stick to determine the reversing
path. He selects the desired path curvature with the auxiliary joystick. This corresponds to a
finite radius of curvature, which in turn corresponds to a particular rotation of the dolly 9
attached to the last semi-trailer 16. A control system implements this angle. The centre of
the rear axle group 19 of the last semi-trailer becomes the master reference point (MRP) for
reversing.
The first slave reference point (SRP1) is the centre of the rear axle group 20 of the second
last semi-trailer. The on-board computer also calculates the angle of the second last dolly 8
required to make the first slave reference point follow the master path. A control system also
implements this angle.
The second slave reference point (SRP2) is the centre of the rear axle group 21 of third last
semi-trailer. The on-board computer also calculates the fifth wheel angle of the prime mover
17 required to make the second slave reference point follow the master path. A control
system implements this angle by automatically steering the front wheels of the prime mover.
Note that all the semi-trailers 14, 15 and 16 follow the same path. Dollies 8 and 9 also follow
the same path which is outboard of the path of the semi-trailers. The prime mover can be
regarded as a powered dolly which can be steered by turning its front wheels. It will have a
wider swept path than the other dollies due to its greater length.
Although other master reference points and slave reference points could be used. Reference
points close to the centre of axle groups are preferred because they are not subject to
transient see-saw effects during non-steady state turns.
         3.   Means of accounting for scuffing of multiple wheels
In previous inventions (Spark 258 and 024) relating to trains involving semi-trailers and dog
trailers, off-tracking was minimised and scuffing was eliminated at the same time. However,
the elimination of scuffing requires the independent steering of all trailer wheels - which
makes the exercise costly. However, the scuffing associated with four-wheel and six-wheel
axle groups is generally accepted by the road transport industry. In the present invention no
attempt is made to reduce the scuffing associated with turning four-wheel and six-wheel axle
groups, so that the environmental benefits of the previous inventions cited cannot be
expected. In the present invention off-tracking is minimised by focusing improvements on the
dollies of the dog trailers. However, this approach leads to problems, which must be
addressed.
Scuffing occurs if all the wheels of a rigid body do not have a single instant centre. In this
case the kinematics of the rigid body, and therefor its path become indeterminate. In order to
estimate the path, we assume the path is predicted by a notional master wheel (with a slip
angle of zero) located at the mid-point of the axle group. Half the actual wheels are expected
to experience positive slip angles and the other half negative slip angles. It is assumed that
the dynamic effect of these slip angles cancel out. In the first instance these notional master
wheels will be used to deduce the theoretical instant centres and thereby the theoretical path
of the rigid bodies (prime mover, dollies and semitrailers). Note that the notional master
wheels are shown as black. See Figure 5.

         4. Method of determining actual instant centres
In view of the assumptions associated with the deduction of the theoretical instant centres of
the rigid bodies in the train, it is desirable to check these against the actual instant centres.
This could be done by locating instrumented/angle-measuring castors (hereafter referred to
as castors) at the opposite ends of each rigid body. These castors will align to show the
direction of the movement of the ground relative to the position of the castor on the rigid
body. If we draw a line at right angles to motion of the ground at the position of each castor,
the instant centre of the rigid body will be given by the intersection of these lines. Accuracy
can be maximised by locating the castors as far apart as possible. If the castors are located
at the articulation points they will be shared by the two linked rigid bodies. The most
convenient location for the castors on the axis of the semi-trailers is just behind the rear of
the dolly (or prime mover) and just forward of the pintle hitch. These locations are shown in
Figures 5 and 6.
Figure 7 shows the structure of an instrumented angle-measuring castor. A vertical inverted
mast 22 is attached to the longitudinal axis of each semi-trailer 14, 15 and 16 at the two
chosen positions. The mast is encompassed by a cylinder 23 that is free to rotate and slide
relative to the mast. For simplicity any necessary bearings are not shown. An offset castor
24 is attached to the bottom of the cylinder 23. Each castor 24 is pressed against the ground
with a spring 25 positioned between a flange 26 on the mast 22 and a flange 27 on the
cylinder 23. A transducer 28 is attached to the mast by means of a bracket 29. This
transducer 29 records the rotation of the offset of the castor relative to the axis of the semi
trailer.
Note that a vertically-aligned video camera or modified laser mouse could be used as a
virtual instrumented castor. In this case no contact with the ground is required. There is no
delay associated with the rotation of the castor to a new equilibrium position, and no
problems with shimmy. Furthermore, the error caused by the offset of the wheeled castor is
eliminated.
Figure 5 shows how the instant centre of the semi-trailer can be determined by the
intersection of the intersection of the rotational axes of two castor wheels. Note that if the
instant centres of adjacent semi-trailers are deduced, then the instant centres of the drawbar
that links them can also be deduced. Note that if the notional master wheel of the dolly is to
lie on the master path, it must also have the same instant centre as the semi-trailer it
supports. Figure 5 shows the ideal case where the notional master wheels 30,31 and the
castors 32 deduce the same instant centres.
The articulation (or hitch) points connect two rigid bodies, such as a drawbar and a semi
trailer. For non-steady state turns, the instant centres of the two rigid bodies will be different.
However, in accord with Kennedy's three centre theorem, the hitch point and the two instant
centres must lie on a straight line.
If the actual instant centre is different to that of the theoretical notional master wheel, the
position of the actual notional master wheel can be determined. It is the position on the
longitudinal axis of the semi-trailer whose perpendicular passes through the actual instant
centre.
The driver selects the curvature of the path of the prime mover with the steering wheel. This
is a process of trial and error. The theoretical path can be deduced from the angle of the
steering wheel by assuming the slip angles for the front wheels and the notional master
wheel are zero. If some slip angles are not zero, the actual path will differ from the

theoretical path. However, the driver will compensate for small slip angles without thinking
about it.
Note that the actual master path can be determined with the aid of two castors located on
the first semi-trailer. From the two castor angles the instant centre of the semi-trailer can be
deduced for any time (or distance travelled). The master reference point is the articulation
axis of the dolly. Movement of the master reference point will be perpendicular to the line
joining the master reference point to the instant centre. The curvature of the master path will
be the reciprocal of the distance between the master reference point and the instant centre.
This distance is sometimes referred to as the radius of curvature.
The object of the present invention is to make the first and second slave reference points on
the second and third semi-trailers follow the master path. To do this we need to know the
position of the pintle hitch of the preceding semi-trailer. We can then deduce the heading of
the drawbar required to locate the slave reference points on the master path. Since the
heading of the dolly must be tangential to the master path, we can deduce the required
angle between the drawbar and the dolly. We can also deduce the required angle between
the drawbar and the longitudinal axis of the preceding semi-trailer.
Two methods can be used to deduce the position of the pintle hitch of the semi-trailers.
Firstly, we can assume that the theoretical instant centre of the semi-trailer lies on the
rotational axis of a notional master wheel located on the longitudinal axis of the semi-trailer.
If this notional master wheel 30 is located at the centre of the six-wheel axle group it will be
assumed to have a slip angle of zero. The instant centre will also be expected to lie on the
rotational axis of a notional master wheel 31 located at the centre of the four-wheel axle
group of the dolly. The theoretical instant centre is the point of intersection of the two axes.
From this the theoretical position of the pintle hitch can be deduced.
Alternatively, the actual instant centre of the semi-trailer can be determined with the aid of
two castors 32 and 33 (as outlined above). From this instant centre the actual position of the
pintle hitch can be deduced.
5 Means of positively articulating the rigid bodies of the train to achieve cooperative
redundancy.
The key requirement of the invention is the need to rotate the dolly relative to its drawbar in a
controlled way. Figure 8 shows a means of doing this using a rotary actuator 34.
Figure 8(a) shows a vertical section AA close to the longitudinal axis of an improved dog
trailer.
Figure 8(b) shows horizontal section BB just above the fifth wheel of the dog trailer.
The semi-trailer 15 or 16 is rotatably connected to the drawbar 35 and improved dolly 36 by
means of a vertical kingpin 37. The drawbar contains a hinge 38 with a transverse horizontal
axis which limits the transfer of vertical force to the preceding semi-trailer 14 or 15. The front
of the drawbar is connected to preceding semi-trailer by means of a pintle hitch 20 or 21 with
limited three degrees of rotational freedom. A gear segment 39 is attached to the bottom of
the drawbar between the hinge 38 and the kingpin 37. This large gear 39 engages a small
gear 40 attached to and thereby driven by a rotary actuator 41 which is attached to the front
of the dolly by means of bracket 42. Rotation of actuator 42 will cause the angle between the
longitudinal axes of the dolly and the drawbar to change. Consequently, the latter angle can
be controlled by actuator 41.

The angle between the axes of the drawbar 35 and the preceding semi-trailer 15 or 14 can
also be controlled by actuator 43 attached to the top of the drawbar 35 between the pintle
hitch 20 or 21 and the hinge 38. This actuator coaxially drives a long vertical gear 44 which
engages a much larger gear segment 45 which is attached to the rear of the preceding semi
trailer 15 or 14 above the pintle hitch. This gear segment 45 is attached to a horizontal rod
46 which can slide and rotate inside a cylinder 47 attached to the rear of the preceding semi
trailer 15 or 14. A compressed coil spring 48 is used to press the large gear segment 45
against the long gear 44. This arrangement accommodates relative rotation of the drawbar
and the preceding trailer about longitudinal and transverse axes passing through the pintle
hitch. The angle between the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the preceding trailer can
now be positively controlled by actuator 43.
The angle between the longitudinal axes of the dolly 36 and the following semi-trailer 15 or
16 can also be controlled by actuator 49, which is attached to the rear of the dolly 36. This
actuator 49 coaxially drives a small gear 50 which engages with a large gear segment 51
which is attached to the underside of the supported semi-trailer 15 or 16.
Figure 9 shows an alternative means of controlling the three articulation angles. In this case
linear actuators are used that are connected to the linked rigid bodies by means of ball
joints. The actuators could be hydraulically cylinders or electric screw actuators. These
actuators are deployed in symmetrical pairs. Strictly only three actuators are required.
Actuators 52 and 53 are used to control the angle between the longitudinal axes of the dolly
8 or 9 and the drawbar 10.
Actuators 54 and 55 are used to control the angle between the longitudinal axes of the
preceding semi-trailer 15 or 14 and the drawbar 10.
Actuators 56 and 57 are used to control the angle between the longitudinal axes of the dolly
8 or 9 and the following semi-trailer 15 or 16.
Note that the angle between the axes of the drawbar and the following semi-trailer is equal
to the sum of the angles between the dolly and the following semi-trailer and between the
dolly and the drawbar.
Note that if the three articulation angles are controlled to achieve cooperative redundancy
(where they are all trying to enforce a single instant centre on each semi-trailer), then jack
knifing of the trail of dog trailers should no longer be possible.
Figure 10(a) shows a third method of positively controlling the angles of the dolly wheels
relative to the longitudinal axis of the draw bar, the longitudinal axis of the supported semi
trailer and the longitudinal axis of prime mover or preceding trailer. In this case, the angle
between the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the associated dolly is fixed at zero and
the angles of each steerable dolly wheel relative to the longitudinal axis of the dolly and
drawbar is controlled by means of a hydraulic steering actuator 58 connecting the steering
arm 59 to the axle 60 supporting the steerable wheel 61. There is also a double ended
hydraulic centring actuator 62 which when activated, over-rides the steering actuator 58 and
brings the wheel angle to the straight ahead (zero angle) position. The centring actuator 62
is activated at higher speeds and when a fault is detected in the dolly wheel steering system.
Ideally there should be one steering actuator and one centring actuator per wheel. For the
front axle of the dolly, the right-hand wheel has been centred by the front right centring
actuator, whereas the angle of the left hand front wheel is controlled by the front left hand
steering actuator. However, the dolly wheel steering system could be simplified by
connecting the left hand and right-hand wheels with a four-bar linkage. However, four-bar

linkages only achieve pure Ackermann steering (where the rotational axis of all wheels on a
rigid body intersect at a single point) for three wheel angles. The error associated with four
bar linkages increases greatly for non-steady state turns where the required instant centre
63 of the dolly (although well away from the longitudinal axis of the dolly) moves forward or
backwards relative to the centre of the dolly four axle group.
The rear wheels of the dolly with steerable wheels are steered by means of a four-bar
linkage. In this case only one steering actuator 64 is used to turn the right-hand wheel and
the left-hand wheel is turned by means of a tie bar 65. In this case a single centring actuator
66 acts on the tie bar. Here, the dolly front wheels 66 and rear dolly wheels are steered to
produce an instant centre 63 that ensures that a slave reference point on the dolly follows
the master path generated by a master reference point on the prime mover. The master and
slave reference points could be the articulation axes (or hitch points) of the prime mover and
dolly respectively. However other reference points could be chosen.
Figure 10@ shows a section through the longitudinal axis of a centring actuator. When this
actuator is activated, hydraulic fluid forces the opposing pistons to the ends of their stroke. In
this condition the outer ends of the opposing piston rods contact two prongs attached to the
piston rod of the now de-activated steering actuator or tie rod, thus forcing the either to the
zero wheel-angle position. It is possible to combine the steering actuator and the centring
actuator within a single cylinder. This has not been done here in the interests of clarity.
One level of cooperative redundancy could be achieved by also positively controlling the
angle between the longitudinal axes of the prime mover or preceding trailer 67 and the
drawbar 68/dolly 69 with linear 54 and 55 or rotary 43 actuators as described above, so as to
produce the same instant centre as the angles of the dolly wheels.
A second level of cooperative redundancy could be achieved by also positively controlling
the angle between the longitudinal axis of the drawbar 68/dolly 69 and the semi-trailer 70
supported by the dolly 69 with linear 56 and 57 or rotary 49 actuators as described above, so
as to produce the same instant centre as the angle of the dolly wheels.

                                                1
The claims defining the invention are:
           1. A train consisting of a prime mover, a semi-trailer and at least one dog trailer,
              where each dog trailer consists of a semi-trailer, the front of which is
              supported by a dolly, where each dolly is connected to the rear of the
              preceding semi-trailer by means of a drawbar the front end of which engages
              with three degrees of rotational freedom a pintle hitch fixed to the rear of the
              preceding semi-trailer, where the rear end of the drawbar is rotatably
              connected to both the dolly and the supported semi-trailer by means of a
              vertical kingpin, where the angle between the longitudinal axis of the drawbar
              and the longitudinal axis of the dolly is positively controlled so that a slave
               reference point on each dolly is made to follow the path of a master reference
              point on the prime mover, where the prime mover has a minimum of two rear
              drive wheels, each dolly has a minimum of two wheels and each semi-trailer
               has a minimum of two wheels.
          2. A train according to claim 1 where the master reference point is the axis of
              the fifth wheel of the prime mover, and the slave reference points are the
              axes of the fifth wheel of the dolly associated with each following dog trailer.
          3. A train according to claims 1 or 2 where the correct angle between the
               longitudinal axes of the drawbar and its associated dolly is calculated by
               numerical means and then implemented.
          4. A train according to claims 1, 2 or 3 where the correct angle between the
               longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the associated dolly is calculated when
              the train is transitioning from one steady state (with a single instant centre) to
              another steady state (with a different instant centre), where such transitions
              are characterised by the prime mover, the dollies and the semi-trailers having
              different instant centres at any instant of time.
          5. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 4 where the angle of the front
              wheels of the prime mover and the speed of the drive wheels of the prime
               mover are sampled at regular intervals and used to deduce discrete points on
              the path of the master reference point, where this master path must be
              followed by the slave reference points, where it is assumed that the instant
              centres of the prime mover and the semi-trailers lie on the rotational axis of
               notional master wheels located at the midpoint of the prime mover drive
              wheel group and the midpoint of the semi-trailer rear wheel group, where the
              angle required between the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the
              associated dolly can be deduced.
          6. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 4 where two or more angle
               measuring castors located on the longitudinal axis of the first semi-trailer are
               used to determine the instant centre of the first semi-trailer and thereby the
              path of the master reference point, and two or more angle-measuring castors
               located on the longitudinal axes of the following semi-trailers are used to
              determine their instant centres, from which the angle required between the
               longitudinal axes of the drawbar and associated dolly can be deduced.
          7. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 6 where the correct angle between
              the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the preceding semi-trailer is also
              calculated by numerical means and then implemented to produce one level of
              cooperative redundancy for each semi-trailer, excluding the first.
          8. A train according to claim 1 where the angle between the longitudinal axes of
              the drawbar and dolly is fixed at zero degrees, but where the wheels of the

                                      2
    dolly are rotationally attached to their axles by means of kingpins (or ball
    joints) so that the angle between the rotational axes of the dolly wheels and
    and their axles can be controlled by means of actuators that ensure that the
    rotational axes of the dolly wheels intersect at a single instant centre where
    this instant centre is controlled to ensure that slave reference points on the
    dolly follow the master path generated by a master reference point located on
    the prime mover.
9. A train according to claim 8 where the master reference point is the axis of
    the fifth wheel of the prime mover, and the slave reference points are the
    axes of the fifth wheel of the dolly associated with each following dog trailer.
10. A train according to claims 8 or 9 where the correct instant centre of the dolly
    is calculated by numerical means and then implemented.
11. A train according to claims 8, 9 or 10 where the correct instant centre of the
    dolly is calculated when the train is transitioning from one steady state (with a
    single instant centre) to another steady state (with a different instant centre),
    where such transitions are characterised by the prime mover, the dollies and
    the semi-trailers having different instant centres at any instant of time.
12. A train according to any one of claims 8 to 11 where the angle of the front
    wheels of the prime mover and the speed of the drive wheels of the prime
    mover are sampled at regular intervals and used to deduce discrete points on
    the path of the master reference point, where this master path must be
    followed by the slave reference points, where it is assumed that the instant
    centres of the prime mover and the semi-trailers lie on the rotational axis of
    notional master wheels located at the midpoint of the prime mover drive
    wheel group and the midpoint of the semi-trailer rear wheel group, where the
    correct instant centre of the dolly can and thereby the correct angle of the
    dolly wheels be deduced.
13. A train according to any one of claims 8 to 11 where two or more angle
    measuring castors located on the longitudinal axis of the first semi-trailer are
    used to determine the instant centre of the first semi-trailer and thereby the
    path of the master reference point, and two or more angle-measuring castors
    located on the longitudinal axes of the following semi-trailers are used to
    determine their instant centres, from which the angle of the dolly wheels can
    be deduced.
14. A train according to any one of claims 8 to 13 where the correct angle
    between the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the preceding semi-trailer is
    also calculated by numerical means and then implemented to produce one
    level of cooperative redundancy for each semi-trailer, excluding the first.
15. A train according to any one of claims 8 to 13 where the correct angle
    between the longitudinal axes of the dolly and the following semi-trailer is also
    calculated by numerical means and then implemented to produce a second
    level of cooperative redundancy for each semi-trailer, excluding the first.
16. A train according to claim 1 or 15 where the train is driven in reverse, where
    the master reference point is the centre of the rear axle group of the last
    semi-trailer and the slave reference points are the centres of the rear axle
    groups of the other semi-trailers.
17. A train according to claim 16 where the driver selects the desired reverse
    path with the aid of a reversing camera attached to the rear of the last semi
    trailer, and a reversing joystick or steering wheel which controls the angle
    between the longitudinal axis of the last semi-trailer and its dolly or the angle
    of the dolly wheels, where the control system deduces and implements the

                                      3
    angle required between the longitudinal axis of the second last semi-trailer
    and its dolly or the angle of the dolly wheels, where the control system also
    deduces and implements the angle of the front wheel of the prime mover so
    that the slave reference points follow the master path.
18. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 17 where the angle between the
    longitudinal axes of the dolly is controlled with a rotary actuator attached to
    the front of the dolly where the vertical shaft of the actuator is keyed to a gear
    which engages a gear segment attached to the bottom of the drawbar, so that
    rotation of the actuator causes the said angle to change.
19. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 17 where the angle between the
    longitudinal axes of the dolly and its drawbar is controlled by means of two
    cooperative redundant linear actuators that connect the left and right hand
    sides of the drawbar to the left and right hand corners of the dolly
    respectively, so that changing the length of these actuators causes the said
    angle to change.
20. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 19 where the correct angle
    between the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the preceding semi-trailer is
    also calculated by numerical means and then implemented with a rotary
    actuator attached to the drawbar where the vertical shaft of the actuator is
    keyed to a gear which engages a gear segment attached to the rear of the
    preceding semi-trailer, so that rotation of the actuator causes the said angle
    to change.
21. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 19 where the correct angle
    between the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the preceding semi-trailer is
    also calculated by numerical means and then implemented with two
    cooperative redundant linear actuators that connect the left and right hand
    sides of the drawbar to the left and right hand corners of the preceding semi
    trailer respectively, so that changing the length of these actuators causes the
    said angle to change.
22. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 19 where the correct angle
    between longitudinal axes of the dolly and the following semi-trailer is also
    calculated by numerical means and then implemented with a rotary actuator
    attached to the rear of the dolly where the vertical shaft of the actuator is
    keyed to a gear which engages a gear segment attached to the bottom of the
    following semi-trailer, so that rotation of the actuator causes the said angle to
    change, bearing in mind that the angle between the longitudinal axes of the
    drawbar and the following semi-trailer is the sum of the angle between the
    longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the dolly and the angle between the
    longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the following semi-trailer.
23. A train according to any one of claims 1 to 19 where the correct angle
    between longitudinal axes of the dolly and the following semi-trailer is also
    calculated by numerical means and then implemented with two cooperative
    redundant linear actuators that connect the rear left and right hand corners of
    the dolly to the left and right hand sides of the following semi-trailer
    respectively, so that changing the length of these actuators causes the said
    angle to change, bearing in mind that the angle between the longitudinal axes
    of the drawbar and the following semi-trailer is the sum of the angle between
    the longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the dolly and the angle between the
    longitudinal axes of the drawbar and the following semi-trailer.

                                    4
24. A train according to any one of claims 6 to 23 where the angle measuring
    castors are replaced with angle-measuring video cameras trained on the
    ground.
25. A train according to any one of claims 6 to 23 where the angle measuring
    castors are replaced with a modified laser mouse.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
