                                                - 12
                                              Abstract
A compression wave massage device for body parts is described, particularly for erogenous
zones such as the clitoris, comprising a pressure field generation device and a drive device. The
pressure field generation device has at least one cavity with a first end and a second end, located
opposite the first end and distanced from said first end, with the first end being provided with at
least one opening for placement on a body part. The drive device causes a change of the volume
of at least one cavity between a minimal volume and a maximal volume such that in at least one
opening a stimulating pressure field is generated. The cavity is formed by a single chamber, and
the ratio of the volume change to the minimal volume is not below 1/10, preferably not below
1/8.

   1/5
       3
2c
         40

                                                  -1
                           COMPRESSION WAVE MASSAGE DEVICE
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
The invention relates to a compression wave massage device for body parts, particularly erogenous
zones such as the clitoris, comprising a device generating a pressure field, which shows at least
one cavity with a first end and a second end, located opposite thereto and distanced from the first
end, with the first end comprising at least one opening for placement on a body part and a drive
device, which is embodied to generate a change of the volume of at least one cavity between a
minimal volume and a maximal volume such that a stimulating pressure field is generated in at
least one opening.
                                           BACKGROUND
A device of the type mentioned at the outset is particularly known from DE 10 2013 110 501 Al.
In this known device the cavity is formed by a first chamber and a second chamber. The second
chamber shows an opening for placement on a body part or on an erogenous zone. The two
chambers are connected to each other via a narrow connection channel. The drive device is
embodied such that it only changes the volume of the first chamber, namely such that via the
connection channel a stimulating pressure field is generated in the second chamber. This
construction of prior art shows considerable disadvantages, though. The use with gliding gel or
under water is impossible, since the lubricant or the water increases the throttle effect in the narrow
connection channel to such an extent that the drive device is choked off. Additionally, the device
of prior art fails to comply with the strict requirements of hygiene required here, since the
connection channel due to its very narrow cross-section prevents any cleaning of the first chamber
located at the inside so that contaminants and bacteria can accumulate there, which then cannot be
removed.
The objective of the present invention is to provide a compression wave massage device of the
type mentioned at the outset which shows a simple and simultaneously effective design, and
additionally meets the strict requirements for hygiene.
                                              SUMMARY
This objective is attained in a pressure field generation device, which comprises at least one cavity
with a first end and an opposite second end, located at a distance from the first end, with the first
end comprising at least one opening for placement on a body part and a drive device, which is
embodied to change the volume of at least one cavity between a minimal volume and a maximal

                                                  -2
volume such that a stimulating pressure field is generated in at least one opening, characterized in
that the cavity is formed by a single chamber and the ratio of volume change to minimal volume
is not below 1/10, preferably not below 1/8.
Accordingly, the invention is characterized in a single-chamber solution, which shows the
advantages of a simpler construction, improved hygiene, particularly due to the ability of easier
rinsing of the cavity according to the invention, formed by only a single chamber, and the easy
handling with lubricant or under water.
Furthermore, according to the invention the ratio of the minimal volume to the volume change
shall not exceed 10, particularly not exceed 8, since it was found that otherwise the suction effect
becomes too low. Here, the volume change refers to the difference between the maximal volume
and the minimal volume. The volume of the cavity is defined as the volume of a chamber which
ends in the proximity of the opening in a virtually planar area, which virtually closes the opening.
Preferred embodiments and further developments of the invention are disclosed in the dependent
claims.
Preferably the ratio of minimal volume to volume change should not be below 1, and preferably
not below 2, since according to the invention it was found that otherwise the required power of the
drive device becomes excessive and on the other hand the vacuum at the opening becomes too
strong and perhaps even painful.
When using a flexible membrane, to be set into a reciprocal motion by the drive device, for the
alternating generation of vacuum and pressure, here the minimal volume of the cavity is defined
as the volume when the opening of the cavity is virtually closed with a planar area and the
membrane is in an operating stage and/or a position with the shortest distance from the opening.
On the other hand, the maximal volume of the cavity of the chamber is defined as the volume when
the opening of the cavity is virtually closed with a planar area and the membrane is in an operating
stage and/or a position showing the greatest distance from the opening. In order for the air flow to
remain essentially unchanged over the entire length of the cavity of the chamber or to be at least
almost consistent, preferably the cross-section of the cavity of the chamber, defined perpendicular
to the length between its two ends, should be unchanged or at least almost constant over the entire
length between its two ends.
The cavity of the chamber can preferably show essentially the form of a rotary body with a circular
or elliptic cross-section.
Additionally, for generating a homogenous, unhindered and thus effective airflow it is
advantageous when preferably the side wall of the camber, limiting the cavity and connecting its
two ends to each other, is free from discontinuous sections.
Beneficially the cavity of the chamber may show the form of a continuous tube.

                                                  -3
Preferably the cross-section of the opening is essentially equivalent to the cross-section of the
cavity of the chamber.
It has proven particularly advantageous to size the ratio of the width of the cavity of the chamber,
defined perpendicular to its longitudinal extension, to the length of the cavity of the chamber,
defined in the direction of its longitudinal extension, from 0.1 to 1.0, preferably from 0.2 to 0.6,
particularly preferred from 0.38 to 0.4.
Preferably the cavity of the chamber is closed at its inner, second end with a flexible membrane
which extends essentially over the entire cross-section of the cavity and is moved by the drive
device alternating in the direction towards the opening and the direction opposite thereto. With
such a construction the stimulating pressure field can be generated in a particularly simple and
simultaneously effective fashion in the cavity of the single chamber provided according to the
invention.
For reasons of hygiene, it is further advantageous if particularly the section of the chamber showing
the opening is provided as an interchangeable socket, with its inner lateral wall forming a section
of the lateral wall of the cavity leading towards the opening. Beneficially the socket should be
made from a flexible material, preferably silicon.
In a further development of the preferred embodiment stated above the inner lateral wall of the
socket should essentially be aligned to the other section of the lateral wall of the cavity such that
any points of discontinuation between the socket and the inner section of the cavity of the chamber
is avoided.
In an alternative further development of the above-stated preferred embodiment the inner lateral
wall of the socket forms an essentially continuous lateral wall of the cavity, connecting the first
end with the second end, and thus a lateral wall of the cavity connecting the opening of the socket
with the membrane, and the socket together with the membrane form a one-piece component. Such
a preferred further development offers, based on the one-piece connection of the socket and the
membrane, a particularly easily produced design and additionally has advantages with regards to
hygiene, because the entire component comprising membrane and socket can be exchanged, which
is possible only with the one-chamber solution realized according to the invention.
Preferably the pressure field shall show a pattern of relative vacuum and pressure stages, which
are modulated upon a reference pressure, preferably normal pressure. Beneficially the value of the
overpressure in reference to normal pressure is lower than the value of the relative vacuum in
reference to normal pressure, and measures preferably no more than 10% of the value of the
relative vacuum. It has been found that under normal conditions of use, when the compression
wave massage device, placed with its opening on the body part to be stimulated, is not impinged
by excessive compression, potentially developing relative overpressure can largely dissipate so
that already for this rather factual considerations, the focus must be given to a pressure field to be
modulated primarily in the vacuum range. For this reason, it is alternatively also possible that the

                                                 -4
pressure field comprises a pattern of only relative vacuum stages, which are modulated on a
reference pressure, for example normal pressure. In another preferred further development the
pressure field is generated with an essentially sinusoidal periodic pressure progression, with the
drive device here being required to cause a regular change of the volume of the cavity, for example
with the help of an eccentric mechanism.
Preferably a control device may be provided, which controls the drive device and shows at least
one control means by which the respective modulation of the pressure field can be adjusted.
Beneficially the device should be embodied as a manual device, preferably driven by a battery.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
In the following, a preferred exemplary embodiment of the invention is explained in greater detail
based on the attached drawings. Here it shows:
Fig. 1 is a perspective side view of the compression wave massage device according to the
         invention in a preferred embodiment;
Fig. 2 is a front view of the compression wave massage device of Fig. 1;
Fig. 3 is a longitudinal section through the compression wave massage device of Fig. 1;
Fig. 4 is an enlarged detail of the longitudinal section of Fig. 3 in the head section of the
         compression wave massage device of Fig. 1; and
Fig. 5 is a compression wave progression preferably generated by the compression wave massage
         device of Fig. 1.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The preferred embodiment of the compression wave massage device 1 shown in the figures
comprises an oblong housing 2 with a first end section 2a, an opposite second end section 2b, and
a central section 2c located therebetween. Preferably the housing is made from plastic. As
discernible from the figures 1 to 3, in the exemplary embodiment shown the two end sections 2a
and 2b are rounded and taper slightly towards the central section 2c, which is embodied slightly
narrower. At the first end section 2a of the housing 2 a projection 4 is formed, protruding
perpendicular in reference to the longitudinal extension of the housing 2 and forming together with
the first end section 2a of the housing 2 a head of the compression wave massage device 1, while
the second end section 2b of the housing 2 preferably serving as the handle in order to hold the
compression wave massage device 1 during application, described in greater detail in the
following.

                                                   -5
As further discernible from Fig. 1, in the direction of its longitudinal extension the housing 2 is
composed of two half shells, with one of the half shells being provided with the above-mentioned
projection 4. The two half shells of the housing 2, not marked in greater detail in the figures, are
preferably glued to each other; alternatively it is also possible to connect the two half shells of the
housing 2 in a different way, namely for example using screws or other fastening means arranged
at the interior sides.
As particularly discernible from Figs. 1, 3, and 4, a socket 6 is located on the projection 4, which
shows an opening discernible in Figs. 2 to 4 and marked with the reference character "8".
Preferably the socket 6 is made from a soft and/or flexible plastic material, such as silicon.
In the head of the compression wave massage device 1, formed by the first end section 2a of the
housing 2 and the projection 4, a compression wave generation device 10 is located, by which a
stimulating pressure field is generated with the help of the opening 8. As particularly discernible
in detail from Fig. 4, the pressure field generation device 10 comprises a cavity 12 with an exterior
first end 12a and an inner second end 4b, opposite the first end 12a and located distanced from the
first end 12a, with the first end 4a simultaneously also forming the opening 8 in the socket 6. The
cavity 12 is formed by a single continuous chamber 14 and is limited by an inner or lateral wall
12c connecting its two ends 12a, 12b to each other. As discernible from Figs. 3 and 4, the socket
shows an exterior section 6a by which it can be detachably fastened to the projection 4, and an
inner section 6b, with the exterior section 6a and the inner section 6b of the socket 6 being
connected to each other in the proximity of the opening 8. The inner section 6b of the socket 6 is
formed like a sheath and limits an exterior section of the cavity 12 leading to an exterior first end
12a. This way, the inner wall of the sheath-shaped inner section 6b of the socket 6 forms
simultaneously an exterior section 12c l of the inner or lateral wall 12c of the cavity 12, leading to
the opening 8. Further, in the exemplary embodiment shown the cavity 12 is limited by an interior
annular element 16, with its inner wall simultaneously forming the other inner section 12c2 of the
lateral wall 12c of the cavity 12. Accordingly, in the exemplary embodiment shown the continuous
single chamber 14 is composed of the sheath-shaped inner section 6c of the socket 6 and the
annular element 16.
Alternatively it is also possible, for example, that the annular element 16 is omitted and instead
the sheath-shaped inner section 6b of the socket 6 is extended to the membrane 18 and is connected
to the membrane 18 to a joint, one-piece component such that the inner wall of the sheath-shaped
inner section 6b of the socket 6 would form in this case the entire lateral wall 12c of the cavity 12.
As further discernible in Figs 3 and 4, the arrangement of the socket 6 and the annular element 16
is rendered such that the first section 12c l of the cavity 12 is aligned to the second section 12c2 of
the cavity 12 such that the lateral wall 12c of the cavity 12 is free from any discontinuities. The
cavity 12 of the chamber 14 essentially shows the form of a rotary body with a circular cross
section, with the cross-section of the cavity 12, defined perpendicular to its length L between the
two ends 12a, 12b, in the exemplary embodiment shown essentially being almost constant over

                                                   -6
the entire length L between the two ends 12a, 12b and only expanding slightly towards the opening
8 such that the opening cross-section of the opening 8 is almost equivalent to the cross-section of
the cavity 12. Alternatively it is also possible for example to provide the cavity 12 with an elliptic
cross-section. Thus, the chamber 14 shows a continuous tube with a cross-section almost identical
over its entire length, with in the exemplary embodiment shown the cavity being aligned in the
direction of its length L approximately perpendicular to the longitudinal extension of the housing
2.
 In the exemplary embodiment shown the ratio of the width of the cavity 12, defined perpendicular
to its longitudinal extension, to the length L of the cavity 12, defined in the direction of its
longitudinal extension, values to approximately 0.39. However, other values are also possible for
the ratio of diameter or width to length of the cavity 12 of the chamber 14 from 0.1 to 1.0.
As further discernible from Figs. 3 and 4, the cavity 12 is closed at its inner second end 12b with
a flexible membrane 18, preferably produced from silicon, which extends over the entire cross
section of the cavity 12 and is driven via the mechanism 20 by a drive engine 22. Here the
mechanism 20 is embodied such that the rotary motion of the output shaft 22a of the drive engine
22 is converted into a reciprocal longitudinal motion, causing the membrane 18 to be set in motion
perpendicular to the level stretched, alternatively in the direction towards the opening 8 and
opposite thereto. This way, the volume of the cavity 12 of the chamber 14 is altered depending on
the rotation of the output shaft 22a of the drive engine 22. Preferably the mechanism 20 shows an
eccentric or a con rod in order to convert the rotary motion of the output shaft 22a of the drive
engine 22 into a reciprocal longitudinal motion for the reciprocal deflection of the membrane 18.
In general, other forms of drives are also possible, which cause a deflection of the membrane 18
for changing the volume of the cavity 12. The reciprocal motion of the membrane 18 causes
thereby a change of the volume of the cavity 12 between a minimal volume and a maximal volume
such that a stimulating pressure field is generated in the opening 8. This can occur for example
also in an electromagnetic, piezo-electric, pneumatic, or hydraulic fashion. However the
arrangement must be made such that the ratio of the volume change to the minimal volume is not
below 1/10 and preferably not below 1/8, so that the ratio of minimal volume to volume change is
not exceeding 10, and preferably not exceeding 8, because otherwise during the motion of the
membrane 18 in the direction away from the opening 8 the suction effect becomes too low. Further,
preferably the arrangement should also be rendered such that the ratio of volume change to
minimal volume is not greater than 1, and preferably not exceeding 12 so that the ratio of minimal
volume to volume change is not below 1 and preferably not below 2, because otherwise on the one
hand the power requirement of the drive engine 22 becomes excessive and on the other hand
excessive vacuum develops during the motion of the membrane 18 in the direction away from the
opening 8. This way, with the help of the flexible membrane 18 driven by the drive engine 22
alternating vacuum and overpressure stages are generated in the cavity 12 of the chamber 14.
The volume of the cavity 12 is defined as the volume of the chamber 14 which ends in the
proximity of the opening 8 at a virtual planar area, which virtually closes the opening 8 when the

                                                   -7
membrane 18 is in its normal and/or middle position. The minimal volume of the cavity 12 is
defined such that the opening 8 of the cavity 12 is virtually closed with a planar area and the
membrane 18 is in a position with the shortest distance from the opening 8 and thus in its
maximally deflected state in the direction towards the opening 8. The maximal volume of the
cavity 12 is defined here such that the opening 8 of the cavity 12 is virtually closed with a planar
area and the membrane 18 is in a position with the greatest distance from the opening 8 and thus
at a stage maximally deflected away from the opening 8.
As further discernible from Figs. 3 and 4, the drive engine 22, which in the described exemplary
embodiment represents an electric motor, is connected via an electric cable 24 to an electric control
circuit board 26, controlling the drive engine 22. As further discernible from Fig. 3, via an electric
cable 28 a batter 30 is connected to the control circuit board 26, which provides the drive engine
22 and the control circuit board 26 with the required electric power. The battery 30 may optionally
represent a battery that cannot be recharged or also a rechargeable accumulator. While in the
exemplary embodiment shown the drive engine 22 is arranged in the connection area between the
narrow central section 2c of the housing 2 and the first end section 2a of the housing 2 and thus
adjacent to the head of the compression wave massage device 1 formed by the first end section 2a
of the housing 2 and the projection 4, the battery 30 is arranged in the second end section 2b of the
housing 2, resulting in the housing 2 being well balanced when the compression wave massage
device 1 is held manually by the user.
As further discernible from Figs. 1 and 3, a power switch 32 is provided, with can be operated
from the outside of the housing 2 to switch the compression wave massage device 1 on or off and
is arranged in the narrow central section 2c of the housing 2. A sensor 34 is also arranged in the
narrow, central section 2c of the housing 2, to be operated from the outside, by which the various
operating conditions of the compression wave massage device 1 can be adjusted, and a control
light 36 is arranged there, preferably embodied as a light diode visible from the outside. The power
switch 32 and the sensor 34 are arranged directly on the control circuit board 26 fastened below
the wall of the housing 2, while the control light 36 is connected via an electric cable, not shown
in the figures, to the control circuit board 26.
In addition to the control of the drive engine 22, in the exemplary embodiment shown, the electric
control circuit board 26 also assumes the charge management of the battery 30. For this purpose,
the control circuit board 26 is connected via an electric cable 38 to the charge contacts 40 arranged
at the face of the second end section 2b of the housing 2 and accessible from the outside, as
discernible from Figs. 1 to 3. An external charging device, not shown in the figures, can be
connected to these connections 40 via a plug with magnetic plug-in contacts, which can be made
to contact the connection contacts 40 to establish an electric connection based on magnetic forces.
The compression wave massage device 1 described is embodied as a hand-held device and for the
application it is placed with the socket 6 onto a body part to be stimulated, not shown in the figures,
such that in the proximity of the opening 8 of the socket 6 it is essentially surrounded. During

                                                 -8
operation of the compression wave massage device 1 then the body part to be stimulated is
alternating subjected to different air pressures caused by the reciprocal motion of the membrane
18. Under normal application conditions, when no excessive pressures are applied after the
placement of the compression wave massage device 1 with its socket 6 on the body part to be
stimulated, relative pressures perhaps can largely dissipate which arise during the respective
motion of the membrane 18 in the direction towards the opening 8 so that therefore essentially the
pattern develops shown in Fig. 5 of a modulated relative vacuum in reference to the normal air
pressure Po. However, as discernible from the pressure progression of Fig. 5, here relative
overpressures can occur in the maximum in reference to normal pressure Po, which are
considerably lower than the minima of the relative vacuum. Usually the value of the relative
overpressure in reference to the normal pressure Po amounts to no more than 10% of the value of
the relative vacuum in reference to the normal pressure Po. Alternatively it is also possible that the
pressure field only comprises a pattern of relative vacuum conditions, which are modulated on the
normal pressure Po (quasi from the bottom). In particular when the mechanism 20 comprises an
eccentric, the sinusoidal periodic pressure progression develops shown in Fig. 5.
Due to the fact that the cross-section of the cavity 12 of the chamber 14, as already described, is
essentially almost constant over the entire length L, this results during operation in the air flow
over the entire length L of the cavity 12 essentially remaining constant as well. This way a
particularly effective air flow can be generated for an effective stimulation of the body part to be
stimulated with relatively low energy consumption of the drive engine 22.
The control circuit board 26 preferably shows a memory, not shown in the figures, in which various
modulation patterns are saved. By an appropriate operation of the sensor 34, here a desired
modulation pattern can be selected in order to control the drive engine 22 accordingly.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires otherwise,
the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge in Australia.

                                        -9
                                      Claims
1.        A compression wave massage device when used on the clitoris, com
   prising:
          a pressure field generation device comprising at least one cavity with a
   first end and a second end, located opposite the first end and distanced from
   the first end, with the first end being provided with an opening for placement
   over the clitoris; and
          a drive device configured to generate a change of the volume of at least
   one cavity between a minimal volume and a maximum volume such that in at
   least one opening a stimulating pressure field is generated, wherein the cavity
   is formed by a single chamber and the ratio of the volume change to the min
   imal volume is not below 1/10 and not greater than 1.
2.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the cavity is formed by a single
   continuous chamber.
3.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the cavity is limited by a con
   tinuous lateral wall connecting the first end with the second end of the cavity.
4.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the cross-section of the cavity
   of the chamber defined perpendicular to its length between the two ends is
   essentially unchanged or at least almost consistent over the entire length be
   tween the two ends such that the air flow is essentially unchanged or at least
   almost consistent over the entire length of the cavity of the chamber.
5.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the cavity of the chamber es
   sentially shows the form of a rotary body with a circular or elliptic cross
   section.

                                       -- 10-
6.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the lateral wall of the chamber
    limiting the cavity and connecting its two ends to each other is free from dis
    continuations.
7.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the cavity of the chamber shows
    the form of a continuous tube.
8.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the opening cross-section of the
    opening is essentially equivalent to the cross-section of the cavity of the
    chamber.
9.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the ratio of the width of the
    cavity of the chamber, defined perpendicular to its longitudinal extension, to
    the length of the cavity of the chamber, defined in the direction of its longitu
    dinal extension, ranges from 0.1 to 1.0.
10.       A device according to claim 1, wherein the cavity of the chamber is
    closed at its second end with a flexible membrane, preferably made from sil
    icon, which essentially extends over the entire cross-section of the cavity and
    which is moved by the drive device alternating in the direction towards the
    opening and in the opposite direction thereto.
11.       A device according to claim 1, wherein the section of the chamber com
    prising the opening is provided as an exchangeable socket with its inner lat
    eral wall forming a section of the lateral wall of the cavity leading towards
    the opening.
12.       A device according to claim 11, wherein the socket is made from a flex
    ible material.
13.       A device according to claim 11, wherein the section of the lateral wall
    of the cavity, formed by the inner lateral wall of the socket and leading to the

                                       -- 11 -
    opening, is essentially aligned to the remaining section of the lateral wall of
    the cavity.
14.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the section of the chamber com
    prising the opening is provided as an exchangeable socket with its inner lat
    eral wall forming a section of the lateral wall of the cavity leading towards
    the opening and the inner lateral wall of the socket essentially forms entirely
    the lateral wall of the cavity connecting the first end to the second end of the
    cavity and thus the opening to the membrane and the socket jointly with the
    membrane being combined to a one-piece component.
15.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the stimulating pressure field
    shows a pattern of relative vacuum and overpressure stages, which are mod
    ulated on a reference pressure.
16.        A device according to claim 15, wherein the value of the relative over
    pressure in reference to a normal pressure is below the value of the relative
    vacuum in reference to the normal pressure.
17.        A device according to claim 16, wherein the value of the relative over
    pressure in reference to the normal pressure amounts to no more than 10% of
    the value of the relative vacuum in reference to the normal pressure.
18.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the stimulating pressure field
    shows a pattern of relative vacuum stages, which are modulated on a reference
    pressure.
19.        A device according to claim 15, wherein the stimulating pressure field
    shows an essentially sinusoidal periodic pressure progression.
20.        A device according to claim 1, further comprising a control device
    which controls the drive device and comprises at least one control means by

                                       -- 12-
    which the respective modulation of the stimulating pressure field can be
    changed.
21.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the device is a hand-held device.
22.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the ratio of the volume change
    to the minimal volume is not below 1/8.
23.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the ratio of the volume change
    to the minimal volume is not greater than 1/2.
24.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the ratio of the width of the
    cavity of the chamber, defined perpendicular to its longitudinal extension, to
    the length of the cavity of the chamber, defined in the direction of its longitu
    dinal extension, ranges from 0.2 to 0.6.
25.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the ratio of the width of the
    cavity of the chamber, defined perpendicular to its longitudinal extension, to
    the length of the cavity of the chamber, defined in the direction of its longitu
    dinal extension, ranges from 0.38 to 0.4.
26.        A device according to claim 12, wherein the flexible material is silicon.
27.        A device according to claim 14, wherein the socket is made from a flex
    ible material.
28.        A device according to claim 27, wherein the flexible material is silicon.
29.        A device according to claim 15, wherein the reference pressure is the
    normal pressure.

                                    -- 13-
30.       A device according to claim 18, wherein the reference pressure is the
    normal pressure.
31.       A device according to claim 21, wherein the device is operated by a
    battery.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/5

