ABSTRACT
A workout station mountable to a trailer hitch on a vehicle or via a ground engaging
plate held down by the weight of a vehicle the workout station has a support frame, at
least one vertical support receiving sleeve shaped to slidingly receive a first vertical
support bar that can releasably engage to the at least one vertical support receiving
sleeve. The at least one first vertical support bar has an upper weight receiving end
and a lower ground engaging end, wherein the at least first vertical support bar can be
raised or lowered to bring the lower ground engaging end into contact with a ground
surface to stabilise the workout station. Adjustable height jacks connected to the
workout station can be independently operated to also stabilise and level the workout
station as required.

           'i/i
44b                        -54 a---
                              155      -----
                                    ----
                                       151A  28
                                   150
        18                     152
    62b
                                    1
                  9 -- 62a
           Figure 3

IMPROVED VEHICLE MOUNTED WEIGHT RACK
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
This invention relates to a workout station that is supported or stabilised by a vehicle or
a secured mounting plate. In particular, the present invention relates to a workout
station that can be releasably stabilised by a vehicle or a secured mounting plate,
wherein the weight rack can be removably attached to a hitch mounted to a vehicle or
alternatively to a mounting plate secured to a surface or held in place using a vehicles
weight.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART
Fitness is a priority for a large number of people due to the benefits that fitness
exercise provides such as self-confidence, improved health and wellbeing. Outdoor
exercise classes are exceedingly common, involving a number of groups of individuals
performing various exercises under the supervision of a physical fitness instructor.
When conducting such exercise classes, the instructor is limited to the equipment they
can utilise, which in turn limits the range of exercises they can instruct. For example, a
fitness instructor may typically use items such as hand weights or other small barbells
to provide weight restricted exercises. Whilst these are suitable for low level classes,
more powerful weight exercises such as heavy power squats cannot be carried out due
to the lack of equipment to support the heavyweights used.
This is a particular issue for those that are involved in high strength training, such as
power lifters and other such elite weightlifters in which the weights needed to perform
their exercises can be upwards of 100 kg. Using current apparatus available, it is
simply not efficiently or effectively possible for a user to transport and carry a workout
station in their vehicle that can support such heavyweights. As a result, many such
athletes are forced to miss or reduce their workout routines when travelling on holidays
which can adversely affect their training schedule.
Whilst it may be possible for the athlete to disassemble a standard weight training rack,
such as a squat rack, and place it in a physical or possibly an accompanying trailer,
these racks are not designed for quick and efficient assembly and take up considerable
                                               1

space as they require a large footprint when assembled in order to ensure that weight
placed on the rack is effectively stabilised.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least substantially ameliorate,
the disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art.
Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following description, taking in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein,
by way of illustration and example, an embodiment of the present invention is
disclosed.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
According to the present invention, although this should not be seen as limiting the
invention in any way, there is provided a workout station mountable to a mounting
point, the workout station having a support frame including:
         a main bar,
         a mounting attachment attached to the main bar,
         a first and a second vertical support receiving sleeve,
         the first and a second vertical support receiving sleeve shaped to slidingly
receive a first and second vertical upright;
         a first and second adjustable jack having a first and second vertical adjustment
member shaped to slidingly engage with the first and second vertical upright through
the first and a second vertical support receiving sleeve respectively;
         wherien the first and second vertical upright and the first and second vertical
adjustment member are releasably secured to one another
In preference, the support frame is U-shaped.
In preference, the first and second vertical support receiving sleeves include engaging
means to releasably engage the first and second vertical uprights.
                                               2

In preference, the first and second vertical support include a movable brackets to
support a barbell.
In preference, the first and second vertical support include a movable chin up bar
attachment.
In preference, the mounting attachment is a trailer hitch mounting attachment is a
tongue shaped to nest within a trailer receiver hitch mounted to a vehicle.
In preference, the mounting attachment is removably secured to a ground engaging
plate.
In preference, the ground engaging plate is securely held in place by parking a vehicle
on the ground engaging plate.
In preference, the engaging means is a locking pin.
In preference, the locking pin is a screw lock pin.
In preference, the first and second adjustable jack is a screw jack or hydraulic jack.
In preference, the adjustable jack is removably secured to the support frame.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
By way of example, an embodiment of the invention is described more fully
hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of an embodiment of the workout station of
the present invention;
Figure 2 is a perspective view of the embodiment of figure 1 as attached to a vehicle;
Figure 3 is a perspective view of invention as shown in figure 1 as attached to a ground
engaging plate.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Figure 1 shows a perspective exploded view of an embodiment of the workout station
of the present invention having the general reference number 10. Where shown the
                                             3

labels "a" or "b" are used to indicate an item as being on either a right (a) or left side
(b) of the workout station 10.
The workout station 10 has a main support frame 15 that includes a main bar 18 to
which is attached to a mounting attachment 22 which is adapted for attachment to the
suitably shaped receiver, such as a trailer receiver 25, which is attached to a vehicle 28.
In this present embodiment, the mounting attachment 22 is tongue that is inserted into
the hitch or receiver 25 and can be locked in place by way of a locking pin that passes
through both the receiver 25 and the tongue 22, as would understood by a person
skilled in this field. This ensures that the main support frame 15 is secured to the
receiver 25.
The mounting attachment 22 is at a downward angle of between 1 and 5 degrees off of
the main bar 18 so that when the adjustable jacks are used to increase the height of the
workout station to provide more stability and to level it, the vertical uprights of the
workout station can be vertical rather than at an angle less than vertical.
In the present embodiment, is a pair of substantially horizontal arm sections 30a and
30b each of which have a substantially vertical support receiving sleeve 32a and 32b
attached to an end thereof. In the present embodiment, the substantially horizontal arm
sections 30a and 30b are shown as welded sections to the main bar 18, however in
other embodiments they may be formed of a single piece in a U shaped frame. The
vertical support receiving sleeves 32a and 32b are shaped to receive the vertical
adjustment members 47a and 47b that are square shaped to match the openings 36a and
36b in the support receiving sleeves 32a and 32 b so as to allow the vertical upright
bars 34a and 34 b to slidably engage with the vertical uprights 34a and 34b. As shown
in the present embodiment, there are two vertical support bars 34a and 34b
The vertical upright bars 34a/b have an upper ends 40a/b and a lower ends 44a/b. The
upper ends 40a/b have a plurality of openings 48 through the surface of the bars. These
openings allow for the insertion of a bracket 50a/b, which is shaped to hold and
support a barbell. A chin up bar extension 100 can be inserted into the open ends
43a/b of the vertical upright bars 34a/b.
The lower ends 44a/b of the vertical upright bars 34a/b, are shaped to slidingly receive
the vertical adjustment members 47a and 47b as they are slightly smaller in their outer
                                              4

dimensions. Locking pin 60a/b can then be inserted into the openings on the lower
ends 44a/b of the vertical uprights 34a/b to secure the two together at the required
height. In this way as the vertical upright bar 34a/b are raised or lowered, the lock pins
60 can be inserted into the openings to set the vertical upright bars 34 at the desired
height. Although lock pins are showing in the present embodiment, other such locking
means may be used, such as screw type lock pins, cam lever activated locking
mechanisms, or other such mechanisms that allow for the releasable engagement of the
bars 34a/b to the vertical adjustment members 47a and 47b through the support
receiving sleeves 32a/b.
The vertical adjustment members 47a and 47b are placed into support brackets or
sleeves 61 a/b, and in this embodiment welded in place, and have adjustable jacking
means 62a/b attached thereto. In the alternative, the vertical adjustment members 47a
and 47b are inserted into support brackets or sleeves 61 a/b with a sliding fit. The
sleeves 61 a/b are of a suitably shape to receive the ends of the vertical adjustment
members 47a and 47b and can be a friction fit or held in place with locking pins if
required. In the present embodiment the vertical adjustment members 47a and 47b fit
readily into the sleeves 61 a/b without the need for any retaining mechanism.
The adjustable jacking means 62a/b have a foot section 55a/b that can be raised or
lowered by operation of the handle 67a/b, each adjustable jacking means 62a/b being
independently adjustable.
In further embodiments the ground engaging foot 55a/b may be an enlarged
square/circle shape or substantially square/circular shape foot section useful on soft
surfaces such as sand or soft ground.
This setup of the present invention 10 provides significant advantages in that it does
not require an exact level ground surface upon which to rest, one end of the ground
underneath the support frame 15 may be higher than the other thus requiring one of the
vertical support bars 34 to be higher than the other, for example 34a might need to be
higher than 34b to account for a sloping ground surface. In each instance however the
ground engaging foot 55a/b of the adjustment jack 62a/b will both be firmly placed on
the ground engaging surface or support block as required to ensure engagement.
                                              5

At times however, when the ground surface is not as level as needs be, there can be
need to further level and stabilize the workout station 10 as even with the ground
engaging feet 55a/b on the ground there can be play or movement in the workout
station 10 as the weight of the attached car acts to counter the workout station 10. This
is due in part to the small differences in the outer shape of the tongue 22 and the
interior shape of the receiver section 25 as often there is significant difference and
room for play or movement to occur, which results in instability under some weight
bearing loads.
Some tow bar hitches have a screw in bolt that can be tightened to place pressure on
and against one side of the tongue 22 when it slides into the receiver 25. The pressure
created by the screw in bolt is not sufficient to create enough stability throughout the
rack when it is used for weight bearing exercises (either bodyweight, or using a
weightlifting bar with weight plates on it)
The instability is unacceptable when the workout station 10 is being used with heavy
weights or with a chin-up bar attachment.
In order to increase the stabilization of the workout station 10 height adjustable biasing
means or height adjustable jacks 62a and 62b, such as mechanical screw jacks or
hydraulic jacks, can be operated to force the feet 55a/b downwards towards the ground
which in turn forces the respective vertical adjustment members 47a or 47b to move
upwards as required. As the vertical support receiving sleeves 34a/b are in sliding
engagement they are allowed to maintain their position relative to the movement of the
vertical adjustment members 47a or 47b and the vertical upright bars 34a/b. in this
way, for example, the adjustable jack 34a can be operated to move the vertical
adjustment member 47a and the vertical upright bar 34a upwards several mm as
required to make the workout station level as required.
In some embodiments the height adjustable jacks 62 are removably secured by way of
clamps that can open to receive the height adjustable jacks 62 within and then close
securely by operation of the handle 67. Other means to removably secure the height
adjustable jacks 62 to the horizontal sections 30a and 30b may be used, such as other
types of clamps or clasps. The height adjustable jacks 62 may alternatively be pivotally
mounted or integrated into the horizontal sections 30a and 30b as required.
                                              6

 Once the operator is satisfied that the ground engaging ends 54 are in the appropriate
 location and the locking pins 60 are inserted to lock the support bars 34 in place, the
height adjustable jacks 62 can independently be operated and in some instances this
will result in the support frame being forced upwards by contact between an upper face
 63a/b of the support brackets or sleeves 61a/b with a lower face 35a/b of the vertical
 support receiving sleeve 32a and 32b increasing the tension between the ground level
 and the tongue 22 and receiver 25. This increased tension then means that any gaps
between the interior surfaces of the receiver 25 and the exterior surfaces of tongue 22
 are reduced or removed, ensuring that there is a rigid fit between the tongue 22 and the
receiver 25.
In addition, the process of applying force via the operation of the height adjustable
jacks 62a/b works against the weight of the vehicle 28 helping to ensure that the
wheels of the vehicle stay on the ground surface.
As each of the height adjustable jacks 62 can independently be operated, selective
 operation of the height adjustable jacks 62 can then address instances where there may
be irregularities or substantial differences in height from one side of the workout
 station 10 to the other side. A spirit level or other suitable leveling instrument may be
 employed to assist in obtaining a level workout station 10.
 Once leveled, the brackets 50 are then placed on the appropriate location on the
vertical support bar 34 as desired by the user. A chin up bar extension 100 may be
 attached to the upper portion 40 of the vertical support bars , the chin up bar extension
 100 having ends that receive or attach to the upper portion 40 of the vertical support
bars 34. Other workout attachments could thus be connected or removably secured to
the workout station 10, such as punching/striking bags, either cooperatively to the
 chin-up bar extension 75 or to the upright sections.
When a barbell is allowed to rest on the brackets 50 the majority of the weight of the
barbell 70 is then transferred directly through the vertical support bars 34 and onto the
 ground engaging ends 55 and thus the ground assists in supporting the weight. This has
 considerable impact when the user requires a heavy barbell, such as when the user
 desires to do squats or other heavy lifting activity/exercise. Without the ground
 engaging ends , feet 55 present when the weight is removed from the brackets 50 the
                                                7

suspension in the car would rise thus forcing the operator to lift the barbell higher than
they might otherwise expect.
At the same time when the user would then want to replace the barbell back onto the
brackets 50 without the ground engaging supports, feet 55, the brackets 50 would be
higher than when the user removed the weight. This could result in a dangerous
situation requiring the user to possibly have to lift the weight at a greater height than
would be recommended as being safe. This could result in the barbell not engaging
with the bracket 50 and thus potentially cause an injury to the operator.
The presence of the ground engaging ends, feet 55, on the adjustable jacks 62a/b
therefore take away the risks and dangers associated with using heavyweights on a rack
that is attached to a vehicle. Further stabilization can be achieved using the height
adjustable biasing means or height adjustable jacks 62a and 62b. In addition, due to the
modular construction of the workout station 10, it can be readily transported and used
in remote locations, such when a user is away from their regular workout location or
there is a need to establish a fitness location, such as may be required by sporting
groups or military groups when on deployment.
In an alternative to attaching the mounting attachment 22 to a vehicle, it can instead be
coupled to a ground engaging plate mount 150 having a ground engaging plate 151
attached to an adjustable horizontal support base 152 with a receiving end 155 for
attaching securely to the mounting attachment 22. A car 28 is driven over the ground
engaging plate 151 so that a tire of the vehicle holds the ground engaging plate 151
against a ground surface to secure it against movement.
Although the invention has been herein shown and described in what is conceived to
be the most practical and preferred embodiment, it is recognized that departures can be
made within the scope of the invention, which is not to be limited to the details
described herein but it is to be accorded the full scope of the appended claims so as to
embrace any and all equivalent devices and apparatus.
                                               8

Claims
 1.      A workout station mountable to a mounting point, the workout station having a
support frame including:
         a main bar,
         a mounting attachment attached to the main bar,
         a first and a second vertical support receiving sleeve,
         the first and a second vertical support receiving sleeve shaped to slidingly
receive a first and second vertical upright;
         a first and second adjustable jack having a first and second vertical adjustment
member shaped to slidingly engage with the first and second vertical upright through
the first and a second vertical support receiving sleeve respectively;
       wherien the first and second vertical upright and the first and second vertical
       adjustment member are releasably secured to one another.
2.       The workout station of claim 1, wherein the support frame is U-shaped.
3.       The workout station of any one of the above claims, wherein the first and
second vertical support receiving sleeves include engaging means to releasably engage
the first and second vertical uprights.
4.       The workout station of any one of the above claims, wherein the first and
second vertical support include a movable brackets to support a barbell.
5.       The workout station of any one of the above claims, wherein the first and
second vertical support include a movable chin up bar attachment.
                                               9

 6.      The workout station of any one of the above claims, wherein the mounting
 attachment is a trailer hitch mounting attachment is a tongue shaped to nest within a
trailer receiver hitch mounted to a vehicle.
 7.      The workout station of any one of the above claims, wherein the mounting
 attachment is removably secured to a ground engaging plate.
 8.      The workout station of claim 7, wherein the ground engaging plate is securely
held in place by parking a vehicle on the ground engaging plate.
 9.      The workout station of any one of the above claims, wherein, the adjustable
jack is removably secured to the support frame.
                                             10

                                     (')'(
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              221              220
                      ,-
                                             ,--
                                                                     ,-,   *+
                                                               ,-.
                          ,+                             ,-*
                    /*1
                                                               ,.
                                                   /*0
                                        !"#$%&'(

                                  (')'*
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 -..
              */1
                           */0
                          ((
                     -,
               2(1
                          -+
                                                         (+
                                                    (,
                                              2(0
                                   !"#$%&'(

                                  !232$
<removed-date>         #$+                       !""
<removed-apn>
                     #"+
                                               #$%
                    #)                                   #"%
              &"+
                                        &"%   #)                    !"
               $#+
                ##+
                                               $#%
              '"+                     '"%      ##%
                    $'+
                         $(+                          ((
                    $&+                                    !)
                                 $"+
                                                               !&
                #*+                     $'%
                                                      $"%
                                       $&%     $(%
                '*+
                                '$+           #*%
               '(+
                                                   '*%
                                '!+
                                      '$%
                                               '(%
                    &&+
                                      '!%
                                                &&%
                               ,-./012!

