Abstract
An electrochemical cell stack applying a compressive force which includes a hollow frame configured
to surround a plurality of electrochemical cells arranged along an axis in a stack configuration,
wherein the stack is configured to be contained within the hollow frame; a pair of end blocks
configured to be located at opposite ends of the stack within the hollow frame; at least one
compression mechanism configured to apply a compressive force to the electrochemical stack;
wherein the hollow frame has a defined shape and forms a continuous border around a periphery of
the electrochemical cell stack when installed within the hollow frame; wherein the frame is formed
of a plurality of wound fibres constructed of a plurality of discrete layers.

WO 2014/137601                                                        PCT/US2014/017195
                 ELECTROCHEMICAL STACK COMPRESSION SYSTEM
        [001] Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to electrochemical cells,
and more particularly, to systems for applying a compressive force to high differential
pressure electrochemical cell stacks.
        [002] Electrochemical cells are used to generate an electric current from
chemical reactions. Electrochemical cell technology, like fuel cells and hydrogen
compressors, offers a promising alternative to traditional power sources, such as
fossil fuels, for a range of technologies, including, for example, transportation
vehicles, portable power supplies, and stationary power production. An
electrochemical cell converts the chemical energy of a proton source (e.g., hydrogen,
natural gas, methanol, gasoline, etc.) into electricity through a chemical reaction with
oxygen or another oxidizing agent. The chemical reaction typically yields electricity,
heat, and water.
        [003] A basic high differential pressure electrochemical cell comprises a
negatively charged anode, a positively charged cathode, and an ion-conducting
material called an electrolyte. Different electrochemical cell technologies utilize
different electrolyte materials. A Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) cell, for
example, utilizes a polymeric, ion-conducting membrane as the electrolyte.
        [004] To generate electricity, a fuel, such as hydrogen gas, for example, may
be delivered to an anode side of an electrochemical cell. Here, hydrogen may be split
into positively charged protons and negatively charged electrons. The protons may
then pass through an electrolyte membrane, such as a PEM, to a cathode side of the
cell. The PEM may be configured to allow only the positively charged protons to pass
through to the cathode side of the cell. The negatively charged electrons may be
forced to pass through an external electric load circuit to reach the cathode side of the
cell, and in doing so, may generate a usable electrical current. Oxygen may be
delivered to the cathode side of the cell, where it may react with the protons and the
electrons to form water molecules and heat as waste.
        [005] The cathode, electrolyte membrane, and anode of an individual
electrochemical cell, may collectively form a "membrane electrode assembly" (MEA),
which may be supported on both sides by bipolar plates. Gases, such as hydrogen

WO 2014/137601                                                         PCT/US2014/017195
and oxygen, may be supplied to the electrodes of the MEA through channels or
grooves formed in the bipolar plates.
        [006] A single cell may generally produce a relatively small electrical potential,
about 0.2-1 volt, depending on the current. To increase the total voltage output,
individual electrochemical cells may be stacked together, typically in series, to form
an electrochemical cell stack. The number of individual cells in a stack may depend
on the application and the amount of output required from the stack for that
application.
         [007] The electrochemical cell stack may receive flows of hydrogen and
 oxygen, which may be distributed to the individual cells. Proper operation of the cell
 stack may require the maintenance of effective seals between the individual cells,
 components of the cells, and flow conduits. Accordingly, the electrochemical cells in
 a stack may need to be compressed against one another to maintain sufficient
 electrical contact between the internal components of each cell. The amount of
 compression between the cells may affect the contact resistance, electrical
 conduction, and membrane porosity, and thus may affect the overall performance of
 the electrochemical cells, Accordingly, in order to maintain contact between the cells
 and increase performance, uniform compression is typically distributed over the
 electrochemical cell stack.
         [008] Often tie rods, bands, and/or springs may be used to apply compressive
 force to a cell stack. These compression mechanisms typically require the use of
 end plates located at both ends of the electrochemical cell stack. For example, end
 plates may cap each end of a cell stack, and tie rods may extend from one end plate
 to the other, either external to the stack along the periphery, or within the stack by
 passing through openings in the cells of the stack. The tie rods may be tightened or
 loosened to move the end plates towards or away from each other to adjust the
 amount of compression exerted on the stack. In some instances, bands may also be
 wrapped around the stack, stretching from end plate to end plate, to maintain
 compression. To withstand the compressive forces of tie rods and/or bands, thicker
 end plates and rods may be required to prevent bowing or cracking. This may
 increase the size and weight of the cell stack, as well as the cost of the
 electrochemical cell system. The problems of stack compression may be further
 complicated in high-pressure electrochemical cell stacks, because high-pressure
 operation may cause increased separation of the cells, Thus, a cost-effective,
                                             -2-

WO 2014/137601                                                         PCT/US2014/017195
  compact, and lightweight system of compression is needed. Further, a system is
  needed that is capable of maintaining compression in an electrochemical cell stack
  over an extended period of time and under a range of operating conditions.
         [009] The present disclosure is directed toward the design of improved
  compression systems for use with electrochemical cells. In particular, the present
  disclosure is directed towards the design of adjustable compression structures for
  use with electrochemical cells. Such devices may be used in electrochemical cells
  operating under high differential pressures, including, but not limited to hydrogen
  compressors, fuel cells, electrolysis cells, hydrogen purifiers, and hydrogen
  expanders.
        [010] Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a system for
applying compressive force to electrochemical cell stacks.
        [011] In accordance with one embodiment, an electrochemical cell stack
compression system may include an integral, hollow frame configured to contain a
plurality of electrochemical cells arranged along an axis in a stack configuration,
wherein the frame has a defined shape and forms a continuous border around a
periphery of the electrochemical cell stack when inserted, and wherein the frame is
formed of a plurality of fibers.
        [012] Various embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of the
following aspects: the frame may be formed of a plurality of fibers composed of
different materials; the frame may include multiple layers formed of fibers; the frame
may include a friction-reducing layer located between at least one of the multiple
layers formed of fibers; the frame may include at least two opposing wall surfaces; the
frame may be further configured to contain at least one end block located at an end
region of the frame; the frame may be further configured to contain at least one
compression mechanism configured to apply a compressive force to the
electrochemical cell stack; the compression mechanism may include at least one gib;
the compression mechanism may be configured to expand when heated; the
compression mechanism may include one or more internal drive screws extending
between two separate portions, wherein rotating the internal drive screws in one
direction moves the two portions further away from each other and rotating the
internal drive screws in the opposite direction moves the two portions closer to each
other; and the frame may be configured to accommodate multiple different sizes of
electrochemical cell stacks.
                                             -3 -

WO 2014/137601                                                        PCT/US2014/017195
        [013] In accordance with another embodiment, an electrochemical stack
compression system may include a structure having a defined shape that is
configured to receive and contain a plurality of electrochemical cells arranged in a
series along an axis to form an electrochemical stack and at least one compression
mechanism configured to apply a compressive force to the electrochemical stack
located adjacent to and along the axis of the electrochemical stack, wherein the
structure forms a continuous border surrounding the electrochemical stack and the at
least one compression mechanism when contained.
        [014] Various embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of the
following aspects: the compression mechanism may include at least one gib; the
compression mechanism may include a block that is configured to expand in
response to an increase in temperature; the compression mechanism may include
internal drive screws configured to increase the size of the compression mechanism
when the internal drive screws are rotated in a first direction and to decrease the size
of the compression mechanism when the internal drive screws are rotated in a
second direction opposite the first direction; the structure may be formed of wound
fibers; the fibers may be non-conductive; the fibers may be carbon; and a height of
the structure along the axis of the electrochemical stack may change in response to a
load applied by the compression mechanism to the electrochemical stack when
receiving the compression mechanism.
        [015] A method of preloading various embodiments of the disclosure may
include inserting the electrochemical stack into the structure, inserting the at least one
compression mechanism into the structure, configuring the compression mechanism
to apply a predetermined load within the compression system, and measuring a
change in height of the structure along the axis of the electrochemical stack to
determine the load being applied by the compression mechanism.
        [016] Various embodiments of the method may further include: inserting at
 least one end block into the structure; the compression mechanism may include two
gibs and configuring the compression mechanism may include wedging the two gibs
against each other; configuring the compression mechanism may include increasing
the temperature of the compression system to expand the compression mechanism;
 and configuring the compression mechanism includes rotating a plurality of internal
drive screws to expand the compression mechanism.
                                            -4-

WO 2014/137601                                                          PCT/US2014/017195
        [017] In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure, an
electrochemical stack compression system may include an integral, hollow structure
having a defined shape and formed of a plurality of wound fibers; a plurality of
electrochemical cells arranged in a series along an axis to form an electrochemical
stack, wherein the electrochemical stack is contained within the structure; at least one
end block contained within the structure and located at an end region of the structure;
and at least one compression mechanism contained within the structure, wherein the
at least one compression mechanism is configured to apply a compressive force to
the electrochemical stack, and wherein the electrochemical stack, the at least one
end block, and the at least one compression mechanism are contained in series
within the structure such that the structure forms a continuous border around and
adjacent to a periphery of the electrochemical stack, the at least one end block, and
the at least one compression mechanism.
        [018] Various embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of the
following aspects: the fibers may be configured to stretch and contract in response to
changes in the compressive force; the at least one compression mechanism may
include a gib; and the at least one compression mechanism may be configured to
expand.
        [019] Additional objects and advantages of the embodiments will be set forth
in part in the description that follows, and in part will be obvious from the description,
or may be learned by practice of the embodiments. The objects and advantages of
the embodiments will be realized and attained by means of the elements and
combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.
         [020] It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and
 the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not
 restrictive of the invention, as claimed.
        [021] The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a
part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the disclosure, and together with
the description, serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.
         [022] Figure 1 illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary electrochemical
 cell, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [023] Figure 2A illustrates an exemplary electrochemical cell compression
 system, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                             -5.-

WO 2014/137601                                                       PCT/US2014/017195
          [024] Figure 2B illustrates an exemplary electrochemical cell compression
 system, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
          [025] Figure 2C illustrates a cross-section of the exemplary electrochemical
 cell compression system of Figure 2A.
          [026] Figure 3A illustrates an exemplary compression mechanism for an
 electrochemical cell compression system according to an exemplary embodiment of
 the present disclosure.
          [027] Figure 3B illustrates an alternative view of the exemplary compression
 mechanism of Figure 3A.
          [028] Figure 4 illustrates an exemplary compression mechanism for an
 electrochemical cell compression system according to an exemplary embodiment of
 the present disclosure.
         [029] Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of
the present disclosure described below and illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the
drawings to refer to same or like parts.
          [030] While the present disclosure is described herein with reference to
 illustrative embodiments of a PEM electrochemical cell employing hydrogen, oxygen,
 and water, it is understood that the devices and methods of the present disclosure
 may be employed with various types of electrochemical cells, including, but not
 limited to hydrogen compressors, fuel cells, electrolysis cells, hydrogen purifiers, and
 hydrogen expanders. Those having ordinary skill in the art and access to the
 teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications, applications,
 embodiments, and substitution of equivalents that all fall within the scope of the
 disclosure, Accordingly, the disclosure is not to be considered as limited by the
 foregoing or following descriptions.
          [031] Other features and advantages and potential uses of the present
 disclosure will become apparent to someone skilled in the art from the following
 description of the disclosure, which refers to the accompanying drawings.
         [032] Figure 1 depicts an individual electrochemical cell 10, according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure. In the exploded side view shown in Figure 1,
cell 10 includes a central, electrolyte membrane 8. Electrolyte membrane 8 may be
positioned between an anode 7A and a cathode 7B. Together, electrolyte membrane
8, anode 7A, and cathode 7B may form MEA 3. Hydrogen atoms supplied to anode
                                             -6-

WO 2014/137601                                                          PCT/US2014/017195
7A may be electrochemically split into electrons and protons. The electrons may flow
through an electric circuit (not shown) to cathode 7B, generating electricity in the
process, while the protons may pass through electrolyte membrane 8 to cathode 7B.
At cathode 7B, protons may react with electrons and oxygen supplied to cathode 7B
to produce water and heat.
        [033] Electrolyte membrane 8 may electrically insulate anode 7A from
cathode 7B. Electrolyte membrane 8 may be any suitable membrane, including, e.g.,
a PEM membrane. Electrolyte membrane 8 may be formed of a pure polymer
membrane or a composite membrane, which may include, e.g., silica,
heteropolyacids, layered metal phosphates, phosphates, and zirconium phosphates,
embedded in a polymer matrix. Electrolyte membrane 8 may be permeable to
protons but may not conduct electrons. Anode 7A and cathode 7B may include
porous carbon electrodes containing a catalyst. The catalyst material, e.g., platinum
or any other suitable material, may speed up the reaction of oxygen and fuel.
        [034] The size and shape of MEA 3 may be increased or decreased
depending on the application of cell 10 and the given load requirements. For
example, the thickness, length, or width of MEA 3 may be adjusted according to the
given application and requirements. Additionally, the concentration of catalyst
material in anode 7A and cathode 7B may be adjusted according to the given
application. The concentration of catalyst material in anode 7A and cathode 7B and
the thickness of electrolyte membrane 8 may each affect the total thickness of MEA 3
        [035] In some embodiments, electrochemical cell 10 may optionally include
one or more electrically conductive flow structures 5 on each side of MEA 3. Flow
structures 5 may serve as diffusion media enabling the transport of gases and liquids
within cell 10. Flow structures 5 may also promote electrical conduction, aid in the
removal of heat and water from electrochemical cell 10, and provide mechanical
support to electrolyte membrane 8. Flow structures 5 may include, e.g., flow fields,
gas diffusion layers (GDL), or any suitable combination thereof. Flow structures 5
may be formed of "frit"-type sintered metals, layered structures, e.g., screen packs
and expanded metals, and three-dimensional porous substrates, An exemplary
porous metallic substrate may consist of two distinct layers having different average
pore sizes. Such flow structures 5 may be formed of any suitable material, including,
e.g., metals or metal alloys, such as, e.g., stainless steel, titanium, aluminum, nickel,
iron, and nickel-chrome alloys, or any combination thereof. In addition, flow
                                            -.7.-

WO 2014/137601                                                       PCT/US2014/017195
structures 5 may include a suitable coating, such as a corrosion-resistant coating, like
carbon, gold, or titanium-nitride.
        [036] The reactant gases on each side of the electrolyte membrane are often
present at different pressures, e.g., operating pressures may range from
approximately 0 psid to 15,000 psid, creating a pressure differential across MEA 3.
For example, when an electrochemical cell is configured as a hydrogen compressor,
the flow structure on the cathode side of the membrane is exposed to higher
pressures than the flow structure on the anode side. The pressure differential may
create a force on MEA 3 that causes MEA 3 to move away from the high pressure
side toward the low pressure side. This movement may cause a reduction in contact
pressure and separation of the contacting surface of MEA 3 from flow structures 5 on
the high-pressure side, Reduction in pressure and subsequent separation between
the contacting surfaces of MEA 3 and high-pressure flow structures 5 may reduce the
electrical conduction and increase the contact resistance between the two, reducing
the efficiency of electrochemical cell 10.
        [037] Flanking flow structures 5 and MEA 3, cell 10 may also include two
bipolar plates 2A, 2B. Bipolar plate 2A may be positioned on the high-pressure side,
and bipolar plate 2B may be positioned on the low-pressure side of electrochemical
cell 10. Bipolar plates 2A, 2B may separate cell 10 from neighboring electrochemical
cells (not shown) in a stack, In some embodiments, two adjacent cells in an
electrochemical cell stack may share a common bipolar plate.
        [038] Bipolar plates 2A, 2B may act as current collectors, may provide access
channels for the fuel and the oxidant to reach the respective electrode surfaces, and
may provide channels for the removal of water formed during operation of
electrochemical cell 10 by means of exhaust gas. Bipolar plates 2A, 2B may also
provide access channels for cooling fluid, such as, e.g., water, glycol, or a
combination thereof. Bipolar plates 2A, 2B may be made from aluminum, steel,
stainless steel, titanium, copper, nickel-chrome alloy, graphite, or any other suitable
electrically conductive material or combination of materials.
         [039] Figures 2A through 2C show exemplary electrochemical cell stack
compression systems 20, according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Each
individual cell 10 may be stacked within compression system 20 to form an
electrochemical cell stack 11. Stack 11 may be comprised of any suitable number of
cells 10. Stack 11 may be located between end blocks 12A and 12B, which may be
                                            -8-

WO 2014/137601                                                        PCT/US2014/017195
located at each end of stack 11. End blocks 12A, 12B may be formed of any suitable
metal, plastic, or ceramic material having adequate compressive strength, e.g.,
aluminum, steel, stainless steel, cast iron, titanium, polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene,
polypropylene, nylon, polyether ether ketone, alumina, or any combination thereof.
         [040] Stack 11 and end blocks 12A, 12B may be housed in a structure 15. A
wound fiber structure 15 may provide a resilient frame capable of housing a high
pressure electrochemical cell stack without significantly increasing the weight or size
of the electrochemical cell system. Structure 15 may form a frame with a defined
shape into which stack 11 and end blocks 12A, 12B are positioned. Figure 2A
depicts an elongated, rounded, structure 15, but structure 15 may be any suitable
shape, including, e.g., rectangular, oval, circular, or square. The walls of structure 15
may form a continuous border long the periphery of stack 11 and end blocks 12A,
12B, and structure 15 and may or may not enclose the front and/or back portions of
stack 11 and end blocks 12A, 12B. End bocks 12A, 12B, stack 11, and any other
components housed in structure 15 may be configured to lie flush with the walls of
structure 15 on an open face, or the components may be recessed within structure 15
or they may protrude from structure 15, or any suitable combination thereof.
         [041] Structure 15 may be dimensioned to house end blocks 12A, 12B and
stack 11, which may include any suitable number of electrochemical cells 10. In
some embodiments, the size, e.g., the height H, length L (shown in Figure 2C), and/or
width, of structure 15 may vary, for example, structure 15 may be configured to
stretch during pre-loading, as discussed further below. Structure 15 may be
dimensioned so as to snugly fit the desired contents, for example, electrochemical
stack 11 and end blocks 12A, 12B, so as to not substantially increase the size of the
overall electrochemical cell system.
         [042] In some embodiments, structure 15 may be formed of wound fibers that
are capable of stretching and contracting. For example, structure 15 may be formed
 of wound fibers, such as, e.g., carbon, glass, or aramid (e.g., KEVLAR@) fibers. The
fibers may be non-conductive to reduce the likelihood of short-circuiting stack 11. In
some embodiments, structure 15 may be formed of metallic fibers, such as, e.g.,
 steel, stainless steel, or aluminum, or alloys, such as Inconel. Structure 15 may be
formed of homogenous fibers or a mixture of different fibers. Additionally, structure
 15 may be formed with or without an epoxy matrix or other suitable material to bind
 the fibers together. As is shown in Figure 2C, the walls of structure 15 may have a
                                             -9-

WO 2014/137601                                                        PCT/US2014/017195
thickness 't.' The wound fiber material properties, such as, e.g., tensile strength, and
wall thickness t may be selected to achieve a desired compressive force on stack 11.
The fibers making up structure 15 may be wound together to form one integral frame
unit into which stack 11 and various other components fit.
          [043] In some embodiments, such as the one shown in Figure 2B, structure
15 may be formed of multiple layers 13A, 13B, and 13C. Though Figure 2B depicts 3
layers, multi-layered embodiments of structure 15 may include any suitable number of
layers. Each layer may be formed of homogenous fibers or of a combination of
different fibers. The layers may be attached to one another, via, e.g., bonding or
fastening mechanisms, or may be unattached and held together through, e.g., friction.
Additionally, some layers may be attached while other layers may be unattached. In
the multi-layer embodiments, structure 15 may include one or more slip-planes 4
between the layers. Slip-plane 4 may be formed of a separate layer or of a coating
on one of the layers, such as, e.g., a polytetrafluoroethylene (e.g., TEFLON@),
polyetheretherketone, polyimide, nylon, polyethylene, or polymer layer or coating, or
any other suitable friction-reducing material to decrease the friction between the
 layers. If incorporated, slip-plane 4 may be included between each layer or may be
 included between fewer than all of the layers. The inclusion of slip-plane 4 may
 reduce the amount of stress within structure 15 and compression system 20,
 particularly in embodiments having thicker structure walls.
          [044] In some embodiments, end blocks 12A, 12B may be also be configured
 to fit into structure 15 so that one or both of end blocks 12A, 12B may move within
 structure 15. For example, end blocks 12A, 12B may be allowed to slip along the
 walls of structure 15. This configuration may decrease the stress in structure 15,
 which may in turn allow for structure 15 to incorporate thinner walls. In such
 embodiments, end blocks 12A, 12B may include a suitable friction reducing material
 or coating, e.g., polytetrafluoroethylene (e.g., TEFLON@), polyetheretherketone,
 polyimide, nylon, polyethylene. In other embodiments, end blocks 12A, 12B may be
 attached to the walls of structure 15 or may be otherwise configured so that end
 blocks 12A, 12B may not slip once inserted into structure 15.
           [045] According to another aspect of the disclosure, compression system 20
 may include one or more gibs to promote uniform compression of electrochemical
 stack 11 within structure 15. The gibs may act as a wedge to drive two parallel
 planes in structure 15 apart as the gibs are wedged together in a direction
                                              - 10-

WO 2014/137601                                                      PCT/US2014/017195
perpendicular to the two parallel planes. For example, as shown in Figures 2A
through 2C, gibs 14A, 14B may be inserted between electrochemical cell stack 11
and end block 12A to drive stack 11 and end block 12A apart while maintaining their
parallel orientation. Gib 14B may have a flat surface and an opposite, angled
surface. Gib 14B may be inserted into structure 15 so that the flat surface lies
adjacent to stack 11 and the angled surface faces upwards. Gib 14B may be oriented
so that the upward-facing, angled surface slopes in a downward direction toward the
front face of structure 15 being loaded. Gib 14A may then be inserted next to gib
14B, and the two gibs may be driven together. Gib 14A may also have a flat surface
and an opposite, angled surface sloped at an angle complimentary to the sloped
surface of gib 14B. The angled surface of gib 14A may be inserted adjacent the
angled surface of gib 14B so that the angled surface also slopes in downward
direction towards the front face of structure 15. Thus, as gib 14A is inserted into
structure 15 and driven against 148, the complimentary slopes may slide against
each other, pushing the flat surfaces of gibs 14A, 14B further apart from each other
and towards end block 12A and stack 11. Gib 14A may be inserted into structure 15
until a desired compressive force is exerted on stack 11.
        [046] Gib 14B may also include a grip portion configured to aid in the insertion
and removal of gibs 14A, 14B from structure 15. In some embodiments, gib 14B may
include one or more gripping mechanism configured to engage the walls of structure
 15 to reduce movement of gib 14B as gib 14A is inserted. The gripping mechanisms
of gib 14B may engage an inner surface of structure 15 or may extend from gib 14B
and engage an edge and/or outer surface of structure 15. For example, Figure 2A
depicts hooks 9 protruding outwards from gib 14B and engaging the edges of
opposite walls of structure 15. Hooks 9 may prevent gib 14B from sliding further into
structure 15 as gib 14A is inserted. Gib 14B may include any suitable gripping
mechanism or combination of gripping mechanisms, such as, e.g., protrusions like
 pegs or hooks, or textured surfaces to reduce movement as gib 14A is wedged
against gib 14B. The gripping mechanisms may be any suitable size, shape, and
orientation. In some embodiments, the thick end of gib 14B may be constrained
against a fixed surface as gib 14A is driven, preventing translation against cell stack
 11.
        [047] While two gibs 14A, 14B are depicted, any suitable number of gibs may
 be included in compression system 20. Additionally, gibs 14A, 14B may be included
                                            - 11 -

WO 2014/137601                                                          PCT/US2014/017195
in any suitable position, for example, gibs 14A, 14B may be positioned between stack
11 and end block 12B, or sets of gibs may be located on either side of stack 11.
        [048] Gibs 14A, 14B may be formed of any suitable material, such as, e.g.,
steel, stainless steel, ceramic, or aluminum. Gibs 14A, 14B may also have any
suitable coating, such as a lubricant, to reduce galling or to facilitate insertion into
compression system 20. Such a suitable friction reducing material may include, e.g.,
polytetrafluoroethylene (e.g., TEFLON@), polyetheretherketone, polyimide, nylon,
polyethylene, or other lubricious polymer coatings, or any other suitable material.
        [049] Gibs 14A, 14B may be any suitable shape and size for insertion into
structure 15. For example, in some embodiments, the size and shape of gibs 14A,
14B may at least in part reflect the size and shape of the interior region of structure
15. Gibs 14A, 14B may be designed with any suitable angle. The angle that gibs
14A, 14B are designed with may be based, at least in part, on the required pre-load of
stack 11, which may be based on the application of stack 11 and the accompanying
output requirements. The size and shape of gibs 14A, 14B may also be based, in
part, on the size of stack 11 compared to the size of structure 15. For example, the
same size structure 15 may be used to house stacks 11 of different sizes. Thus,
larger gibs 14A, 14B may be used with smaller stacks 11 to apply an appropriate
compressive force, and vice versa.
        [050] Gibs 14A, 14B may be used to apply compression to stack 11, maintain
a uniform load, stabilize system 20, and provide planarity. During assembly,
components of compression system 20, such as stack 11 and end blocks 12A, 12B
may be inserted into structure 15. At this time, structure 15 may be "pre-loaded" or
pre-stretched to apply a predetermined compressive force to stack 11 in order to
maintain contact between electrochemical cells 10. This may be accomplished using
compressive mechanisms, such as gibs 14A, 14B. Once the other components are
 inserted, gibs 14A, 14B may be inserted into structure 15 to fill any gaps. Gibs 14A,
 14B may be wedged against each other until their parallel surfaces are forced apart
far enough to achieve a desired compressive load on the surrounding components,
e.g., stack 11, within structure 15. As gibs 14A, 14B are driven together during pre
 loading, tension within the walls of wound fiber structure 15 may increase, and the
fibers may stretch. This may increase the height H of structure 15. The amount of
 expansion of structure 15 may depend, at least in part, on the wall thickness t and the
 types of fibers that make up structure 15. Measuring the change in height H of
                                            - 12.-

WO 2014/137601                                                       PCT/US2014/017195
structure 15 during pre-loading may indicate the compressive force being applied to
stack 11 and may allow for more precise control of pre-loading conditions. Thus,
when wound fiber structure 15 is used in conjunction with the disclosed compression
mechanisms, system 20 may provide a lightweight, low-cost system for accurately
and effectively applying a compressive load to stack 11.
          [051] During operation, as gas pressure in the stack increases, the
compressive loading on stack 11 may decrease until cells 10 separate. At this point,
structure 15 may begin to stretch more than its pre-loaded value. Thus, if stack 11
heats up more than structure 15 during operation, structure 15 may be forced to
stretch more than the pre-loaded value due to differential thermal expansion and the
force applied to the stack will increase. Thus, the materials of structure 15 and any
compressive mechanisms may be selected based on their thermal properties to
reduce the potential for loss of compressive force during operation.
          [052] In some embodiments, system 20 may include other compressive
mechanisms instead of, or in addition to, gibs 14A, 14B. For example, as is shown in
Figures 3A and 3B, in some embodiments, one or more thermal expansion blocks 21
may be used to apply compression to stack 11. Block 21 may be cooled to a
temperature below that of stack 11. During pre-loading, cooled block 21 may be
inserted into compression system 20. As the temperature of block 21 increases
inside of structure 15, block 21 may expand, and accordingly, may apply compression
to stack 11. Block 21 may be formed of any material or combination of materials
having suitable thermal expansion characteristics, such as, e.g., suitable metals,
metal alloys, or ceramics. In some embodiments, block 21 may be formed of
materials with a higher coefficient of thermal expansion than that of structure 15. In
such embodiments, as stack 11 and block 21 are brought up to operating temperature
 (generally between 30 and 100C), block 21 may expand more than structure 15.
 Such expansion may result in compressive loading of stack 11.
           [053] One advantage of thermally activated compression mechanisms is that
 block 21 may be easier to insert into structure 15. Inserting block 21 prior to thermal
expansion may reduce the wear and stress on the surrounding components of
 compression system 20. For example, as is shown in Figure 3A, when block 21 is
 initially inserted during pre-loading, a gap 17 may exist in compression system 20. As
 block 21 warms, gap 17 may disappear as block 21 expands and fills the surrounding
 space (shown in Figure 3B). Once gap 17 disappears, the continued expansion of
                                             -13-

WO 2014/137601                                                      PCT/US2014/017195
block 21 may begin to compress stack 11 and apply a compressive load. The
thermal properties of block 21 may be chosen to impart a desired compressive load
based on the size of stack 11 and the size of gap 17 in structure 15. It will be
understood that while gap 17 is shown between inserted block 21 and end block 12A,
block 21 may be oriented so that gap 17 occurs on either side of block 21, or on both
sides of block 21. Further, gap 17 may occur in any region within structure 15.
        [054] While block 21 is herein described as the expansion member, one or
more of end blocks 12A or 12B may be designed to provide thermal compression
instead of, or in addition to, block 21. Further, gibs 14A, 14B may also be made of
suitable material to allow them to apply compression via use as a wedge as well as
through thermal expansion. Additionally, multiple thermal expansion blocks 21 may
be used, or a combination of thermal expansion block 21 and gibs 14A, 14B may be
inserted into structure 15.
        [055] Other embodiments of the present disclosure may include still other
compression mechanisms. As shown in Figure 4, a screw compression unit 19 with
internal drive screws may be used to apply a compressive load, Compression unit 19
may be configured to be removable from structure 15 or may be attached to structure
15. As is shown in Figure 4, threaded screws 18 may extend from a base 16B of
compression unit 19. The opposite ends of screws 18 may extend into
complimentary threaded inlets (not shown) in block 16A of compression unit 19.
Rotating screws 18 in one direction may cause screws 18 to screw further into the
threaded inlets in block 16A, moving block 16A closer to base 16B and decreasing
the gap between 16A and 16B. Decreasing the gap between 16A and 16B may
reduce the compressive force applied to stack 11. Rotating screws 18 in the opposite
direction may cause screws 18 to unscrew from the threaded inlets in block 16A,
moving block 16A away from base 16B and increasing the gap between 16A and
 16B. Increasing the gap between 16A and 16B may increase the compressive force
applied to stack 11. During pre-loading, compression unit 19 may be inserted into
structure 15 while there is little or no gap between block 16A and base 16B. Once
 inserted, screws 18 may be rotated so as to increase the gap between block 16A and
 base 16B in order to apply a desired compressive force to stack 11.
         [056] While four screws 18 are depicted in Figure 4, any suitable number of
threaded components may be included in compression unit 19. Additionally, the
threaded components may be distributed on base 16B in any suitable arrangement.
                                            -14  -

WO 2014/137601                                                       PCT/US2014/017195
Screws 18 may be any suitable shape or size and may be formed of any suitable
material, for example, any metal, metal alloy, or ceramic. Any number of
compression units 19 may be incorporated in system 20, and compression unit 19
may be used in place of or in addition to either or both of gibs 14A, 14B and thermal
expansion block 21. Further, in some embodiments, compression unit 19 may also
be incorporated into one of the components or compression mechanisms described
previously. For example, one or more of end blocks 12A, 12B, gibs 14A, 14B, or
block 21 may include internal drive screws.
        [057] One additional advantage of some of the embodiments of disclosed
compression system 20 (aside from the reduction in overall stack size and weight) is
that compression system 20 may accommodate electrochemical stacks of different
sizes. By incorporating gibs 14A, 14B, thermal expansion block 21, and/or
compression unit 19, structure 15 may be configured to receive electrochemical cell
stacks of different sizes with different numbers of electrochemical cells suitable for
different applications and output levels. If a smaller stack 11 with fewer
electrochemical cells 10 is contained in structure 15, then larger compression
mechanisms or a larger number of or combination of compression mechanisms may
be inserted around stack 11 during pre-loading to fill any additional space and apply a
desired compressive force. Alternatively, if a larger electrochemical cell stack 11 with
more cells 10 is housed in structure 15, smaller compression mechanisms or fewer
compression mechanisms may be inserted around stack 11. Accordingly, the same
basic structure 15 may be capable of housing different sized electrochemical cell
stacks appropriate for different applications and different output levels, This may
reduce manufacturing costs, because one standard structure 15 may be produced for
housing a variety of electrochemical cell stack sizes suitable for a variety of
applications. Thus, the same basic technology may produce structures for stacks of
various cell counts and sizes. By incorporating different numbers of or different types
of compression mechanisms described above, the same structure 15 may be capable
of accommodating a range of operating conditions over an extended period of time.
        [058] Additionally, the wall thickness of structure 15 and the types of fibers
selected to form structure 15 may allow structure 15 to accommodate a range of
electrochemical cell stack sizes. Further, in multi-layer embodiments of structure 15,
structure 15 may be configured so that one or more of the layers is removable or
separable from the other layers. For example, one or more of the layers may be
                                           - 15-

WO 2014/137601                                                         PCT/US2014/017195
nested within another layer and may be capable of being completely removed from
the surrounding layer. In an embodiment like that shown in Figure 2B, layer 13A may
be nested within and removable from layer 138, for example, and slip-plane 4 may
facilitate removal. Depending on the size of electrochemical cell stack 11 to be
inserted into structure 15, one or more layers may be removed to adapt structure 15
to the currently applicable operating conditions.
         [059] Application of embodiments described above may improve performance
of electrochemical cells, including electrochemical cells operating under high
pressure conditions.
         [060] The many features and advantages of the present disclosure are
apparent from the detailed specification, and thus, it is intended by the appended
claims to cover all such features and advantages of the present disclosure that fall
within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Further, since numerous
modifications and variations will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not
desired to limit the present disclosure to the exact construction and operation
illustrated and described, and accordingly, all suitable modifications and equivalents
may be resorted to, falling within the scope of the present disclosure.
         [061] Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception
upon which this disclosure is based may readily be used as a basis for designing
other structures, methods, and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the
present disclosure. Accordingly, the claims are not to be considered as limited by the
foregoing description.
                                            - 16 -

                                            CLAIMS
1. An electrochemical cell stack compression system comprising:
           a hollow frame configured to surround a plurality of electrochemical cells
                    arranged along an axis in a stack configuration, wherein the stack is
                    configured to be contained within the hollow frame;
           a pair of end blocks configurated to be located at opposite ends of the stack within
                    the hollow frame;
           at least one compression mechanism configurated to apply a compressive force to
                    the electrochemical stack;
           wherein the hollow frame has a defined shape and forms a continuous border
                    around a periphery of the electrochemical cell stack when installed within
                    the hollow frame;
           wherein the frame is formed of a plurality of wound fibers constructed of a
                    plurality of discrete layers.
2. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein each discrete
   layer is formed of homogenous fibers.
3. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein each discrete
   layer is formed of a combination of fibers of different materials.
4. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein at least two of the
   discrete layers are attached by bonding or fastening mechanisms.
5. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein at least two of the
   discrete layers are unattached and held in position by friction.

6.  The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein the plurality
    discrete layers include at least three layers and at least two of the discrete layers are
    attached while at least two of the discrete layers are unattached.
7.  The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein the frame
    includes a friction-reducing layer located between at least two of the discrete layers.
8.  The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion
    of the wound fibers are carbon fibers.
9.  The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein the compression
    system includes a first gib and a second gib inserted between the stack and an end block,
    the first and second gibs each having a flat surface and an opposite angled surface, the
    flat surface of the first gib lies adjacent the stack, and the angled surface of a second gib
    is sloped at an angle complimentary to the angled surface of the first gib and is inserted
    adjacent the angles surface of the first gib.
10. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein the compression
    mechanism includes one or more internal drive screws positioned within the frame,
    wherein rotating the internal drive screws in one direction moves compresses the stack
    and rotating the internal drive screws in the opposite direction decompresses the stack.
11. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 1, wherein the frame has two
    opposing wall surfaces connected by rounded circular ends.
12. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 11, wherein the end blocks
    have rounded surfaces configurated to abut the rounded circular ends of the frame.

13. An electrochemical cell stack and compression system comprising:
            a plurality of electrochemical cells arranged in a series along an axis to form the
                     electrochemical cell stack;
            a hollow frame configured to contain the electrochemical cell stack;
            a pair of end blocks configurated to be located at opposite ends of the stack within
                     the hollow frame;
            at least one compression mechanism configurated to apply a compressive force to
                     the electrochemical stack;
            wherein the hollow frame has a defined shape and forms a continuous border
                     around a periphery of the electrochemical cell stack when installed within
                     the hollow frame;
            wherein the frame is formed of a plurality of wound fibers constructed of a
                     plurality of discrete layers.
14. A method of pre-loading the compression system of claim 13, the method comprising:
            inserting the electrochemical stack into the hollow frame;
            inserting the pair of end blocks into the hollow frame;
            inserting the at least one compression mechanism into the hollow frame;
            configuring the compression mechanism to apply a predetermined load within the
                     compression system;
            measuring a change in height of the structure along the axis of the electrochemical
                     stack to determine the load being applied by the compression mechanism.
15. The electrochemical cell stack and compression system of claim 13, wherein each
    discrete layer is formed of a combination of fibers of different materials.
16. The electrochemical cell stack and compression system of claim 13, wherein the frame
    includes a friction-reducing layer located between at least two of the discrete layers.

17. The electrochemical cell stack and compression system of claim 13, wherein at least a
    portion of the wound fibers are carbon fibers.
18. The electrochemical cell stack and compression system of claim 13, wherein the
    compression system includes a first gib and a second gib inserted between the stack and
    an end block, the first and second gibs each having a flat surface and an opposite angled
    surface, the flat surface of the first gib lies adjacent the stack, and the angled surface of a
    second gib is sloped at an angle complimentary to the angled surface of the first gib and
    is inserted adjacent the angles surface of the first gib.
19. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 13, wherein the compression
    mechanism includes one or more internal drive screws positioned within the frame,
    wherein rotating the internal drive screws in one direction moves compresses the stack
    and rotating the internal drive screws in the opposite direction decompresses the stack.
20. The electrochemical cell stack compression system of claim 13, wherein the frame has
    two opposing wall surfaces connected by rounded circular ends and the end blocks have
    rounded surfaces configurated to abut the rounded circular ends of the frame.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
