                                         ABSTRACT
Provided are methods of treating patients suffering from or susceptible to at least one
symptom of abuse of, dependence on, or withdrawal from at least one substance with
Compound A. Also provided are methods of treating at least one phase of substance
dependence on at least one substance in patients and certain methods of treating at least one
phase of cocaine dependence in patients.

                       METHODS FOR TREATING DEPENDENCE
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0011     This application claims the benefit of and priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial Nos. 60/935,323, "Methods for Treating
Dependence Using Nepicastat" filed August 6, 2007, 60/956,555, "Methods for Treating
Dependence Using Nepicastat" filed August 17, 2007, and 60/960,591, "Methods for
Treating Dependence Using Nepicastat" filed October 4, 2007, which are all incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.
[001a] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2014202047,
which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2008283903
(PCT/US2008/072357), the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
 Field of Invention
 [0021     Provided are certain methods of treating patients suffering from or susceptible to
 at least one symptom of abuse of, dependence on, or withdrawal from at least one
 substance with Compound A. Also provided are certain methods of treating at least one
 phase of substance dependence on at least one substance in patients and certain methods
 of treating at least one phase of cocaine dependence in patients.
 Background of the Invention
 [003]     Substance abuse and dependence are characterized by substance craving, seeking,
 and use with loss of control in limiting intake of the substance. These behaviors occur
 despite significant substance use related problems and at the expense of other behaviors.
 In 2004, approximately 22.5 million Americans aged 12 or older needed treatment for
 substance (alcohol or illicit drug) abuse. The latest estimate for the costs to society of
 illicit drug abuse alone is $181 billion (2002).
 [004]     The problem of cocaine abuse and dependence is a major medical, social, and
 legal concern.      According to the 2005 National Survey on Drug Use and Health,
 approximately 13.9% of Americans aged 12 and older have tried cocaine at least once in
 their lifetimes and 3.3% have tried crack cocaine at least once in their lifetimes. More
 troublesome, in 2005, there were 2.4 million persons who were current cocaine users,
 which is greater than in 2004 when the number was 2.0 million. Similarly, the number of
 current crack users increased from 467,000 in 2004 to 682,000 in 2005.                In 2004, the
 Drug Abuse Warning Network estimated 940,953 drug-related emergency room visits
 nationwide, and cocaine was the involved in the majority of these.
                                                    1

[005]    Clearly, there is a need for a broadly effective treatment approach, and one
including a medication component may be more effective than current behavioral
treatments such as cognitive behavioral therapy or contingency management alone. A
variety of treatments have been studied in clinical trials, without noteworthy success. In
particular, numerous randomized controlled clinical trials of antidepressants have been
completed, including trials of desipramine, fluoxetine, bupropion, and imipramine.
Clinical trials of mood stabilizers, including carbamazepine and lithium have also been
completed, as have trials of phenytoin, direct or indirect dopamine agonists, including
bromocriptine, pergolide, amantadine, mazindole, and methylphenidate. A range of other
agents, including ritanserin, gepirone, nimodipine, and naltrexone have been studied as
well. None of these compounds has proved reliably efficacious.         Several medications
acting on GABA systems have been evaluated as treatments for cocaine dependence,
including tiagabine, baclofen, and vigabatrin. Results for tiagabine have been equivocal,
those for baclofen have been slightly more encouraging, though not compelling. Studies
of vigabatrin have been perhaps equally encouraging, though based primarily on open
label trials.     The outcomes from these development efforts have generally been
discouraging.
[006]    The dopamine j-hydroxylase (DBH) inhibitor disulfiram is the most effective
pharmacologic treatment for cocaine dependence currently available.          Unfortunately,
disulfiram non-specifically inhibits several enzymes, including aldehyde dehydrogenase
and plasma esterases.      Disulfiram and related compounds chelate copper, which is a
necessary cofactor for a variety of enzymes, including aldehyde dehydrogenase, plasma
esterases and DBH.         By inhibiting aldehyde dehydrogenase, disulfiram alters the
metabolism of alcohol (ethanol), producing the disulfiram-ethanol reaction. This reaction
consists of flushing, nausea, and hypotension.
[007]    Inhibition of plasma esterases slows the elimination of cocaine, which can result
in elevations in plasma cocaine levels.        In laboratory studies evaluating effects of
intranasal cocaine during treatment with disulfiram, disulfiram treatment markedly
increased plasma cocaine levels.       Increased cocaine levels were not associated with
alterations in physiologic or subjective effects of cocaine, however. Six-fold elevations in
plasma cocaine levels were observed in one controlled study, and greater elevations may
occur in the context of uncontrolled illicit use. A subsequent study using IV cocaine
dosing documented that disulfiram slowed the elimination of cocaine, presumably by
                                           2

inhibiting plasma esterases. Slow absorption following intranasal dosing accounted for
the increases in plasma concentrations observed earlier.
[008]    Several studies have shown preliminary efficacy of disulfiram as a treatment of
cocaine dependence. In human laboratory studies, treatment with disulfiram reduced the
positive subjective effects produced by cocaine.       Patients with comorbid alcohol and
cocaine dependence had improved outcomes when treated with disulfiram, up to 500 mg.
Similarly, buprenorphine-maintained opiate- and cocaine-dependent patients reduced
cocaine use during treatment with disulfiram. Recently, results from a large clinical trial
suggested that disulfiram 250 mg per day was associated with reduced cocaine use
compared to placebo, regardless of alcohol use pattern or type of psychotherapy provided.
In this study,    112 cocaine-dependent      volunteers were randomized to placebo or
disulfiram, and provided one of two psychotherapies.             Disulfiram treatment was
associated with reduced cocaine use documented by the provision of fewer cocaine
positive urine samples compared to placebo treatment. The effect size was modest and
this outcome remains to be replicated.
[009]   Disulfiram inhibits DBH, the single enzyme that mediates the synthesis of
norepinephrine (NE). DBH is expressed in noradrenergic neurons and is localized within
synaptic vesicles and is released along with NE. DBH can be measured in the plasma,
and the concentration of DBH is highly heritable and variability in activity is largely
accounted for by variability at the DBH locus. The T variant (-1021C->T) is associated
with diminished DBH gene transcription and with lower DBH activity.           This allele is
fairly common.     The frequency of the T allele is reported to be 20% among African
Americans, 22% among Northern European Americans and 16% among Japanese. The
corresponding haplotype frequencies are 0.32, 0.34, and 0.09 for these populations,
respectively.
[010]    Several reports indicate that disulfiram is more effective in patients with lower
DBH activity. It has been shown that in subjects with low DBH activity, the proportion
of cocaine-positive urines decreased over time during treatment with disulfiram 250
mg/day relative to placebo but significantly increased over time during treatment with
62.5 mg and 125 mg disulfiram/day (p's < 0.04). In those with high DBH activity, the
proportion of cocaine-positive urines increased over time with disulfiram at 62.5 mg/day
relative to placebo (p=0.001).    Thus, the efficacy of 250 mg/day disulfiram treatment
                                          3

appears limited to those with low DBH activity, which corresponds to the C->T
genotype. Doses of disulfiram lower than 250 mg/day appear to increase cocaine use,
possibly by reducing cocaine clearance by inhibiting plasma esterases, thus increasing the
abuse-related euphoric effects of cocaine.
[011]   Disulfiram more effectively reduces cocaine use in patients with the DBH C->T
genotype associated with lower DBH activity. Presumably, disulfiram more completely
inhibits DBH in those with lower DBH activity, so that disulfiram is more effective in
those with the lower activity C->T genotype. The observation that disulfiram is more
effective in patients with the low-activity DBH C->T genotype confirms that inhibition of
DBH is a key mechanism of action for disulfiram as a therapy for cocaine dependence.
[012]   While disulfiram provides a proof-of-concept that DBH inhibitors are promising
treatments for cocaine dependence, the usefulness of disulfiram itself as a treatment for
cocaine dependence is severely limited by its interactions with alcohol and cocaine.
Summary of the Invention
[013]   Provided are methods of treating patients suffering from or susceptible to at least
one symptom of abuse of, dependence on, or withdrawal from at least one substance. The
methods include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of
Compound A.
[014]   Also provided are methods of treating at least one phase of substance dependence
on at least one substance in a patient, in which the at least one phase is selected from
acquisition, maintenance, extinction, and relapse. The methods include administering to
the patient a therapeutically effective amount of Compound A.
[015]   Also provided are methods of treating at least one phase of cocaine dependence in
a patient, in which the at least one phase is selected from acquisition, maintenance,
extinction,   and relapse.      The methods include      administering  to the patient    a
therapeutically effective amount of Compound A.
Description of Drawings
[016]   Fig. 1 shows the effect size achieved with sample sizes ranging from 5 to 15.
[017]   Fig. 2 shows the details of the individual enzymatic assays.
                                           4

[018]   Fig. 3 shows a table with the affinities (IC50s or PKi) of nepicastat with DBH and
a range of selected enzymes and receptors.
[019]   Fig. 4 shows the effects of nepicastat on % inhibition of enzyme activity.
[020]   Fig. 5 shows the urinary dopamine levels in normal volunteers after 24 hour
treatment with nepicastat.
[021]   Fig. 6 shows the norepinephrine levels in the cortex in SHRs dosed with vehicle
or varying doses of nepicastat.
[022]   Fig. 7 shows the dopamine levels in the cortex in SHRs dosed with vehicle or
varying doses of nepicastat.
[023]   Fig. 8 shows the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the cortex in SHRs dosed with
vehicle or varying doses of nepicastat.
[024]   Fig. 9 shows the norepinephrine levels in the mesenteric artery in SHRs dosed
with vehicle or varying doses of nepicastat.
[025]   Fig. 10 shows the dopamine levels in the mesenteric artery in SHRs dosed with
vehicle or varying doses of nepicastat.
[026]   Fig. 11 shows the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the mesenteric artery in SHRs
dosed with vehicle or varying doses of nepicastat.
Detailed Description
[027]   As used in the present specification, the following words and phrases are
generally intended to have the meanings as set forth below, except to the extent that the
context in which they are used indicates otherwise.
[028]   As used herein "Compound A" includes (S)-5-Aminomethyl-l-(5,7-difluoro
1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazole,     (R)-5-Aminomethyl-l
(5,7-difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazole,        and
mixtures thereof, as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, such as the
hydrochloride salt. In some embodiments nepicastat is used ((S)-5-Aminomethyl-l-(5,7
                                          5

difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo- 1H-imidazole
hydrochloride).
[029]    As used herein, "Compound B" refers to (R)-5-Aminomethyl-l-(5,7-difluoro
1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazole,           as     well     as
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, such as the hydrochloride salt.
[030]    "Pharmaceutically acceptable salts" include, but are not limited to salts with
inorganic acids, such as hydrochlorate, phosphate, diphosphate, hydrobromate, sulfate,
sulfinate, nitrate, and like salts; as well as salts with an organic acid, such as malate,
maleate,    fumarate,    tartrate, succinate, citrate, acetate,  lactate,   methanesulfonate,
p-toluenesulfonate, 2-hydroxyethylsulfonate, benzoate, salicylate, stearate, and alkanoate
such as acetate, HOOC-(CH2)n-COOH where n is 0-4, and like salts.
[031]    In addition, if a compound is obtained as an acid addition salt, the free base can be
obtained by basifying a solution of the acid salt. Conversely, if the product is a free base,
an addition salt, particularly a pharmaceutically acceptable addition salt, may be produced
by dissolving the free base in a suitable organic solvent and treating the solution with an
acid, in accordance with conventional procedures for preparing acid addition salts from
base compounds. Those skilled in the art will recognize various synthetic methodologies
that may be used to prepare non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable addition salts.
[032]    The term "patient," as used herein, refers to a mammal. In certain embodiments,
the term "patient" refers to a human.
[033]    The terms "administer," "administering," or "administration," as used herein, refer
to either directly administering Compound A or a composition thereof to a patient.
[034]    The terms "treat" or "treating," as used herein, refers to partially or completely
alleviating, inhibiting, preventing, ameliorating and/or relieving the condition, or at least
one symptom thereof.
[035]    The terms "suffer" or "suffering" as used herein refers to one or more conditions
that a patient has been diagnosed with, or is suspected to have.
[036]    The term "susceptible" as used herein refers to having a likelihood of being
affected by at least one symptom of a condition.
                                            6

[037]    Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that "substance abuse" often
involves symptoms of physical and/or psychological "dependence."          Also, when the
substance of abuse is withdrawn from a dependent individual, the individual often
develops certain symptoms including sleep and mood disturbance and intense craving of
the substance of abuse, known as "withdrawal."            The methods described herein
encompass treatment of substance abuse itself, dependence, and also of withdrawal.
[038]    The term "substance abuse," as used herein, can be defined with reference to
criteria set forth in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,    4 th Ed.
Text revision (2000) ("DSM-IV TR"), which was prepared by the Task Force on DSM-IV
of the American Psychiatric Association. A feature of substance abuse is a maladaptive
pattern of substance use manifested by recurrent and significant adverse consequences
related to the repeated use of substances. As recited in the DSM-IV TR, substance abuse
is defined as maladaptive pattern of substance abuse leading to clinically significant
impairment or distress, as manifested by at least one of the following symptoms,
occurring within a 12-month period: (1) recurrent substance use resulting in a failure to
fulfill major role obligations at work, school, or home; (2) recurrent substance use in
situations in which it is physically hazardous;      (3) recurrent substance-related legal
problems; and (4) continued substance use despite having persistent or recurrent social or
interpersonal problems caused or exacerbated by the effects of the substance. In addition,
the DSM-IV TR requires that the symptoms of substance abuse have never met the
criteria for substance dependence. In some embodiments, treatment of substance abuse
with nepicastat reduces the amount or frequency of substance use in a patient. In some
embodiments, treatment of substance abuse with Compound A in a patient reduces at
least one DSM-IV TR symptom for substance abuse. In some embodiments, treatment
with Compound A in a patient reduces at least one symptom of substance abuse which
includes by way of example and without limitation at least one of euphoria, apathy,
irritability, recklessness, poor judgment, compulsion, aggression, anger, craving for the
substance being abused, and mood disorders.        In some embodiments, treatment with
Compound A reduces the substance craving induced by a stressful event in a patient.
[039]    As used herein, the phrase "reduces a symptom" refers to reducing at least one of
the frequency and amplitude of a symptom of a condition in a patient.           In certain
embodiments the patient enters remission and no longer experiences the symptom.
                                          7

[040]    As used herein, the phrase "increases a symptom" refers to increasing at least one
of the frequency and amplitude of a symptom of a condition in a patient.
[041]    The term "substance dependence," as used herein, can be defined with reference to
criteria set forth in the DSM-IV TR. The symptoms for substance dependence set forth in
DSM-IV TR is a pattern of substance use, leading to clinically significant impairment or
distress as manifested by at least three selected from the following group, occurring at
any time within the same twelve month period: (1) tolerance as defined by either (a) a
need for substantially increased amounts of the substance to achieve the desired effect; or
(b) substantially diminished effect with continued use of the same amount of the
substance; (2) withdrawal, as demonstrated by either (a) the characteristic withdrawal
syndrome for the specific substance; or (b) the same, or a closely related substance is
taken to relieve or avoid withdrawal symptoms; (3) the substance is often taken in larger
amounts or over a longer period than was intended; (4) there is a persistent desire or
unsuccessful efforts to cut down or control substance use; (5) a great deal of time is spent
in activities to obtain the substance, use the substance, or recover from its effects; (6)
important social, occupational or recreational activities are given up or reduced because
of substance use; and (7) the substance use is continued despite knowledge of having a
persistent or recurrent physical or psychological problem that is likely to have been
caused or exacerbated by the substance. Substance dependence can be with physiological
dependence,     where evidence of tolerance       or withdrawal is present, or without
physiological dependence, where no evidence of tolerance or withdrawal is present. In
some embodiments, Compound A treatment of substance dependence reduces the amount
or frequency of substance use by a patient.         In some embodiments, Compound A
treatment of substance dependence reduces at least one DSM-IV TR symptom for
substance dependence in a patient. In some embodiments, treatment with Compound A
in a patient reduces at least one symptom of substance dependence which includes by way
of example and without limitation at least one of euphoria, apathy, irritability,
recklessness, poor judgment, compulsion, aggression, anger, craving for the substance
depended upon, and mood disorders. In some embodiments, treatment with Compound A
reduces the substance craving induced by a stressful event in a patient.
[042]    As used herein, "remission" refers to a state during which the occurrence of at
least one symptom of substance abuse or dependence has been reduced.               In some
embodiments, the term remission does not apply if the patient is on agonist therapy or in a
                                          8

controlled environment where access to the relevant substance is restricted. In some
embodiments remission refers to a state during which the occurrence of at least one
symptom of substance abuse or dependence does not occur.             In some embodiments,
remission refers to a state during which all symptoms of substance abuse or dependence
have been reduced in a patient. In some embodiments, remission refers to a state during
which no symptoms of substance abuse or dependence occur. In some embodiments,
remission refers to a state during which substance use does not occur.
[043] In some embodiments, the remission is characterized by at least one of early full
remission, early partial remission, sustained full remission, and sustained partial
remission and only applies after none of the symptoms for substance abuse and
dependence have been present for at least one month. The definition of these four types
of remission are based on the interval of time that has elapsed since the cessation of
dependence (early versus sustained remission) and whether there is continued presence of
at least one symptom of substance dependence or abuse (partial versus full remission).
[044]    The qualifier "early full remission" is used when for at least one month, but for
less than twelve months, no symptom of substance dependence or substance abuse has
been met.
[045]    The qualifier "early partial remission" is used when for at least one month but less
than 12 months, at least one symptom of substance dependence or substance abuse has
been met, but the criteria for substance dependence or substance abuse have not been met.
[046] The term "sustained full remission" is used when none of the symptoms of
substance dependence or substance abuse have been met at any time during a period of at
least twelve months.
[047]    The term "sustained partial remission" is used when for at least twelve months, at
least one symptom of substance dependence or substance abuse has been met, but the
criteria for substance dependence or substance abuse have not been met.
[048]    In some embodiments, Compound A treatment promotes remission in a patient.
In some embodiments, Compound A treatment prolongs a period of remission period in a
patient.
                                           9

[049]   The phrase "prolong a period of remission" refers to increasing the interval of
time during which the patient is in remission. In some embodiments, a stressful event can
cause remission to end in a patient. In some embodiments, relapse occurs at the end of
remission.    In some embodiments, Compound A treatment reduces the likelihood that
remission will end in a patient after a stressful event. In some embodiments, Compound
A treatment promotes at least one of early partial remission, sustained full remission,
sustained partial remission, and sustained full remission.
[050]   "Withdrawal" refers to a collection of symptoms that arise when administration of
a relevant substance is reduced, delayed, or stopped. The substance-specific symptoms of
withdrawal can cause clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational
or other important areas of functioning, for example. These symptoms are not due to a
general medical condition and are not better accounted for by another mental disorder.
Withdrawal usually, but not necessarily, is associated with substance dependence.       In
some embodiments, treatment with Compound A reduces at least one symptom of
withdrawal in a patient.      In some embodiments, withdrawal symptoms include for
example    and without limitation apathy, irritability, recklessness, poor judgment,
compulsion, aggression, anger, substance craving, mood disorders, and sleep disorders.
In some embodiments, treatment with Compound A reduces the substance craving
induced by a stressful event in a patient.
[051]   The term substance dependence can be characterized by the presence of at least
one of the following conditions characterized in the DSM-IV TR:           Alcohol Abuse;
Alcohol Dependence; Alcohol Intoxication; Alcohol Intoxication Delirium; Alcohol
Withdrawal; Alcohol Withdrawal Delirium; Alcohol-Induced Anxiety Disorder; Alcohol
Induced Mood Disorder; Alcohol-Induced Persisting Amnestic Disorder; Alcohol
Induced Persisting Dementia; Alcohol-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Delusions;
Alcohol-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Hallucinations; Alcohol-Induced           Sexual
Dysfunction; Alcohol-Induced Sleep Disorder; Alcohol-Related Disorder Not Otherwise
Specified (NOS); Amphetamine Abuse; Amphetamine Dependence;                 Amphetamine
Intoxication;    Amphetamine      Intoxication    Delirium;   Amphetamine     Withdrawal;
Amphetamine-Induced       Anxiety    Disorder;   Amphetamine-Induced    Mood     Disorder;
Amphetamine-Induced       Psychotic Disorder, With Delusions; Amphetamine-Induced
Psychotic Disorder, With Hallucinations; Amphetamine-Induced Sexual Dysfunction;
Amphetamine-Induced Sleep Disorder; Amphetamine-Related Disorder NOS; Cannabis
                                           10

Abuse; Cannabis Dependence; Cannabis Intoxication; Cannabis Intoxication Delirium;
Cannabis-Induced     Anxiety  Disorder;   Cannabis-Induced    Psychotic    Disorder,  With
Delusions; Cannabis-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Hallucinations; Cannabis-Related
Disorder NOS; Cocaine Abuse; Cocaine Dependence; Cocaine Intoxication; Cocaine
Intoxication  Delirium;    Cocaine   Withdrawal;    Cocaine-Induced    Anxiety    Disorder;
Cocaine-Induced Mood Disorder; Cocaine-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Delusions;
Cocaine-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Hallucinations; Cocaine-Induced             Sexual
Dysfunction; Cocaine-Induced Sleep Disorder; Cocaine-Related Disorder NOS; Inhalant
Abuse; Inhalant Dependence; Inhalant Intoxication; Inhalant Intoxication Delirium;
Inhalant-Induced Anxiety Disorder; Inhalant-Induced Mood Disorder; Inhalant-Induced
Persisting Dementia; Inhalant-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Delusions; Inhalant
Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Hallucinations; Inhalant-Related Disorder NOS;
Opioid Abuse; Opioid Dependence; Opioid Intoxication; Opioid Intoxication Delirium;
Opioid Withdrawal; Opioid-Induced Mood Disorder; Opioid-Induced Psychotic Disorder,
With Delusions; Opioid-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With Hallucinations; Opioid
Induced Sexual Dysfunction; Opioid-Induced Sleep Disorder; Opioid-Related Disorder
NOS; Phencyclidine Abuse; Phencyclidine Dependence; Phencyclidine Intoxication;
Phencyclidine    Intoxication   Delirium;   Phencyclidine-Induced     Anxiety     Disorder;
Phencyclidine-Induced Mood Disorder; Phencyclidine-Induced Psychotic Disorder, With
Delusions;   Phencyclidine-Induced     Psychotic   Disorder,  With    Hallucinations;   and
Phencyclidine-Related Disorder NOS.
[052]   The terms "cessation" and "withdrawal" may be, but need not be, in reference to
the following conditions characterized in the DSM-IV TR:            Nicotine Withdrawal;
Nicotine-Related   Disorder   Not otherwise      Specified;  Nicotine  Dependence,     with
physiological dependence; Nicotine Dependence, without physiological dependence;
Nicotine Dependence, Early Full Remission; Nicotine Dependence, Early Partial
Remission; Nicotine Dependence, Sustained Full Remission; Nicotine Dependence,
Sustained Partial Remission; Nicotine Dependence, On Agonist Therapy; Opioid
Withdrawal; Opioid-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified; Opioid Dependence, with
physiological dependence; Opioid Dependence, without physiological dependence;
Opioid Dependence, Early Full Remission; Opioid Dependence, Early Partial Remission;
Opioid Dependence, Sustained Full Remission; Opioid Dependence, Sustained Partial
Remission; Opioid Dependence On Agonist Therapy; and Opioid Dependence in a
                                         11

controlled environment; Ethanol Withdrawal; Ethanol Dependence with Physiological
Dependence;      Ethanol    Withdrawal,   without   Physiological    Dependence;    Ethanol
Withdrawal, Early Full Remission; Ethanol Withdrawal, Early Partial Remission; Ethanol
Withdrawal, Sustained Full Remission; Ethanol Withdrawal, Sustained Partial Remission;
Ethanol Withdrawal, on Agonist Therapy; Ethanol Withdrawal, In a Controlled
Environment; Amphetamine Withdrawal; and Cocaine Withdrawal.
[053]    As used herein, "on agonist therapy" refers to being treated with an agonist for
substance abuse, dependence, or withdrawal.        The term "agonist" refers to a factor
including, but not limited to a chemical compound, such as a small molecule or a
complex organic compound or a protein, that triggers a response in a patient that is at
least one response or partial response of the substance being abused, depended upon, or
withdrawn from by the patient.           For example, in some embodiments, "Opioid
Dependence On Agonist Therapy" refers to Opioid Dependence on methadone therapy.
[054]    Withdrawal symptoms can arise upon reduction of any of a variety of substances.
For example, the discontinued use of tobacco products, all of which contain nicotine,
typically results in the onset of nicotine withdrawal conditions. Individuals often suffer
the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal as a consequence of the discontinued use of tobacco
in any form, including, but not limited to smoking of cigarette, cigar, or pipe tobacco, or
the oral or intranasal ingestion of tobacco or chewing tobacco.      Such oral or intranasal
tobacco includes, but is not limited to snuff and chewing tobacco.        The cessation of
nicotine use or reduction in the amount of nicotine use, is often followed within 24 hours
by symptoms        including dysphoric,   depressed mood;     light-headedness;   insomnia;
irritability, frustration or anger; anxiety; nervous tremor; difficulty concentrating;
restlessness; decreased heart rate; increased appetite or weight gain; and the craving for
tobacco or nicotine.      These symptoms often cause clinically significant distress or
impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. The methods
described herein may be used to alleviate one or more symptoms attributed to nicotine
withdrawal when such symptoms are not due to a general medical condition and are not
better accounted for by another medical disorder. The present method is also helpful to
those who have replaced, or partially replaced, their use of tobacco with the use of
nicotine replacement therapy. Thus, such patients can be assisted to reduce and even
eliminate entirely their dependence on nicotine in all forms.
                                          12

[055]    The discontinuing or reduction in administration of an opioid, typically self
administration, through injection or orally, through smoking or intranasal ingestion, often
results in the presence of a characteristic opioid withdrawal condition. This withdrawal
condition can also be precipitated by administration of an opioid antagonist such as
naloxone or naltrexone after opioid use. Opioid withdrawal is characterized by symptoms
that are generally opposite to the opioid agonist effects.      These withdrawal symptoms
may include anxiety; restlessness; muscle aches, often in the back and legs; craving for
opioids; irritability and increased sensitivity to pain; dysphoric mood; nausea or vomiting;
lacrimation; rhinorrhoea; papillary dilation; piloerection; sweating; diarrhea; yawning;
fever; and insomnia.       When dependence is on short-acting opioids, such as heroin,
withdrawal symptoms usually occur within 6-24 hours after the last dose, while with
longer-acting opioids, such as methadone, symptoms may take 2-4 days to emerge. These
symptoms often cause clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational
or other important areas of functioning.      The methods described herein can be used to
alleviate one or more symptoms attributed to opioid withdrawal when such symptoms are
not due to a general medical condition and are not better accounted for by another
medical disorder.
[056]    The discontinuing of or reduction in use of ethanol (e.g., ethanol containing
beverages) results in the onset of ethanol withdrawal conditions.        Ethanol withdrawal
conditions are characterized by symptoms that begin when blood concentrations of
ethanol decline sharply, within 4 to 12 hours after ethanol use has been stopped or
reduced.    These ethanol withdrawal symptoms include craving for ethanol; autonomic
hyperactivity (such as sweating or pulse rate greater than 100); hand tremor; insomnia;
nausea; vomiting; transient visual, tactile, or auditory hallucinations or illusions;
psychomotor agitation; anxiety; and grand mal seizures.        These symptoms often cause
clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important
areas of functioning. The methods described herein may be used to alleviate one or more
symptoms attributed to ethanol withdrawal when such symptoms are not due to a general
medical condition and are not better accounted for by another medical disorder.
[057]    Cocaine abuse and dependence can cause cognitive, behavioral, and physiological
symptoms. Symptoms of cocaine abuse and dependence can include varying degrees of
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and euphoria; increased energy, excitement, and
sociability; less hunger and fatigue; a marked feeling of physical and mental strength;
                                           13

dysphoria; decreased sensation of pain; and craving for cocaine.          Respiratory effects
include symptoms such as bronchitis, shortness of breath, and chest pain, and
cardiovascular     effects include symptoms      such as heart palpitations,      arrhythmia,
cardiomyopathy, and heart attacks.         Symptoms also include dilated pupils, nausea,
vomiting, headache, vertigo, anxiety, dizziness, psychosis, and confusion. Administration
of cocaine through snorting or sniffing can result in ear, nose, and throat effects including
nasal irritation, nasal crusting, recurrent nosebleeds, nasal stuffiness, and facial pain. In
some embodiments, Compound A treatment reduces at least one symptom of cocaine
abuse and dependence in a patient. In some embodiments, nepicstat treatment increases
at least one negative subjective symptom of cocaine abuse and dependence.
[058]    Cocaine withdrawal symptoms can include a fatigue, lack of pleasure, depression,
irritability, sleep disorders, increased appetite, pyschomotor retardation, agitation,
extreme suspicion, and craving for cocaine.         In some embodiments, Compound A
treatment reduces at least one symptom of cocaine withdrawal.
[059]    Substance dependence       can be characterized    by the phases:        acquisition,
maintenance, extinction, and relapse. As used herein, the term "acquisition" refers to a
phase of substance dependence in which dependence on the substance is initiated and
acquired by a patient.       In some embodiments, Compound A treatment inhibits the
development of the acquisition phase in a patient. In some embodiments, Compound A
treatment of the acquisition phase reduces at least one of the amount or frequency of
substance use by a patient.        In some embodiments, Compound A treatment of the
acquisition phase reduces at least one DSM-IV symptom of substance abuse and
dependence in a patient.        In some embodiments, Compound A treatment of the
acquisition phase reduces at least one symptom of substance abuse and dependence which
include by way of example and without limitation at least one of euphoria, apathy,
irritability, recklessness, poor judgment, compulsion, aggression, anger, craving for the
substance being abused or depended upon, and mood disorders. In some embodiments,
treatment with Compound A reduces the substance craving induced by a stressful event in
a patient during the acquisition phase.
[060]    "Maintenance" refers to a phase of substance dependence in which there is stable
administration to or use of the substance by a patient.      In some embodiments, a 10%
variance in at least one of the amount and frequency of substance use by a patient is
                                           14

considered a stable behavior.      In some embodiments, Compound A treatment of the
maintenance phase reduces at least one of the amount and frequency of substance use by
a patient.     In some embodiments, Compound A treatment of the maintenance phase
reduces at least one DSM-IV symptom of substance abuse and dependence in a patient.
In some embodiments, Compound A treatment of the maintenance phase reduces at least
one symptom of substance abuse and dependence which includes by way of example and
without limitation at least one of euphoria, apathy, irritability, recklessness, poor
judgment, compulsion, aggression, anger, craving for the substance being abused or
depended upon, and mood disorders. In some embodiments, treatment with Compound A
reduces the substance craving induced by a stressful event in a patient during the
maintenance phase.
 [061]   "Extinction" refers to a phase of substance dependence in which the substance is
not provided to a patient or a patient abstains from use of the substance.       In some
embodiments, the dependence on the substance is extinguished or reduced in the
extinction phase. In some embodiments, at least one withdrawal symptom occurs in the
extinction phase.       In some embodiments, Compound A treatment promotes the
development of the extinction phase in a patient. In some embodiments, Compound A
treatment of the extinction phase reduces at least one DSM-IV symptom of substance
abuse and dependence in a patient. In some embodiments, Compound A treatment during
the extinction phase reduces at least one symptom of substance abuse and dependence
which includes by way of example and without limitation at least one of euphoria, apathy,
irritability, recklessness, poor judgment, compulsion, aggression, anger, craving for the
substance being abused or depended upon, and mood disorders. In some embodiments,
Compound A treatment reduces the withdrawal symptoms in a patient in the extinction
phase. In some embodiments, treatment with Compound A reduces the substance craving
induced by a stressful event in a patient in the extinction phase.
 [062]   "Relapse" refers to recurrence of at least one symptom of substance abuse or
dependence after a period of abstinence in a patient. In some embodiments, the relapse
occurs at the end of remission. In some embodiments, a patient has undergone extinction
training prior to relapse. In some embodiments, relapse occurs after drug priming, stress,
or exposure to an environment related cue or stimulation that was previously associated
with substance use. In some embodiments, Compound A treatment reduces the frequency
of relapse in a patient. In some embodiments, Compound A treatment of the relapse
                                          15

phase reduces at least one DSM-IV symptom of substance abuse and dependence in a
patient. In some embodiments, Compound A treatment of the relapse phase reduces at
least one symptom of substance abuse and dependence which includes by way of example
and without limitation at least one of euphoria, apathy, irritability, recklessness, poor
judgment, compulsion, aggression, anger, craving for the substance being abused or
depended upon, and mood disorders.          In some embodiments, Compound A treatment
reduces the withdrawal symptoms in a patient during the relapse phase.             In some
embodiments, treatment with Compound A reduces the substance craving induced by a
stressful event in a patient during the relapse phase.
 [063]   Treatment of substance abuse, dependence, and withdrawal may be conducted in
stages.    In some embodiments, an initial period of abstinence from substance use is
preferred before induction of treatment with Compound A in a patient.              In some
embodiments, an initial low dose of Compound A is administered to a patient. In some
embodiments, the amount of Compound A administered to a patient is escalated until a
desired therapeutic response is observed.          In some embodiments, the amount of
Compound A is escalated in order to determine the optimal dose to treat the condition
while minimizing symptoms, side effects, and cravings for the substance in a patient.
 [064]   In some embodiments, Compound A treatment promotes remission.              In some
embodiments, the dose of Compound A is unchanged or tapered off after remission is
reached in a patient.
 [065]   Provided are methods of treating a patient suffering from or susceptible to at least
one symptom of abuse of, dependence on, or withdrawal from at least one substance. The
methods include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of
Compound A. In some embodiments, the at least one substance is selected from a drug of
abuse and a medication.       In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is selected from a
psychostimulant agent, an opioid, a hallucinogen, an inhalant, a sedative, a tranquilizer, a
hypnotic,    an anxiolytic,    and an illicit substance.      In some embodiments,        the
psychostimulant agent is a beta-phenylisopropylamine derivative. In some embodiments,
the     beta-phenylisopropylamine       derivative    is  selected   from     amphetamine,
dextroamphetamine, and methamphetamine. In some embodiments, the psychostimulant
agent is selected      from ecstasy, phenmetrazine,      methylphenidate,   diethylpropion,
pemoline, mazindol, (-) cathione, and fenfluramine. In some embodiments, the opioid is
                                           16

selected from Lortab, Tramadol, heroin, methadone, hydrocodone, and oxycodone.           In
some embodiments, the hallucinogen is selected from psilocybin, a hallucinogenic
mushroom, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), phencyclidine (PCP), and ketamine.           In
some embodiments, the inhalant is selected from benzene, toluene, o-xylene, m-xylene, p
xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene, 1,3,5-triflurobenzene,       1,2,4
trifluorobenzene, pentafluorotoluene, pentafluorobenzene, and perfluorobenzene.          In
some embodiments, the medication is selected from an anesthetic, an analgesic, an
anticholinergic    agent, an antihistamine,   a muscle relaxant, a nonsteroidal anti
inflammatory medication, an over the counter medication, and an antidepressant
medication.     In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is cocaine, alcohol, caffeine,
opium, cannabinoid, cannabis, benzodiazapine carisprodol, tobacco, nicotine, Vicodin,
Lorcet, Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox. In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is
cocaine and the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of cocaine abuse and
dependence in the patient selected from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; euphoria;
increased energy, excitement and sociability; less hunger and fatigue; a marked feeling of
physical and mental strength; decreased sensation of pain; bronchitis; shortness of breath;
chest pain; heart palpitations; arrhythmia; cardiomyopathy; heart attack; dilated pupils;
nausea; vomiting; headache; vertigo; dizziness; anxiety; pychosis; confusion; nasal
irritation; nasal crusting; recurrent nosebleeds; nasal stuffiness; facial pain; dysphoria;
and craving for cocaine.     In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is cocaine and the
Compound A increases at least one negative subjective symptom of cocaine abuse and
dependence. In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is cocaine and the Compound A
reduces at least one symptom of cocaine withdrawal selected from fatigue, lack of
pleasure, depression, irritability, sleep disorders, increased appetite, pyschomotor
retardation, agitation, extreme suspicion, and craving for cocaine. In some embodiments,
the Compound A treatment improves a score of the patient on at least one of the attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder IV rating scale (ADHD-IV), Hamilton Depression Scale
(HAM-D), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A), Beck Depression inventory (BDI), apathy
scale from Neuropsychiatric Inventory, and a cognitive function rating scale. In some
embodiments, the cognitive function rating scale is selected from the Wechsler Adult
Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R), Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R), Rey
Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT, Trials I-VII), Rey Complex Figure Test
(RCFT), and the Trail Making Test (TMT, Parts A and B). In some embodiments, the
Compound A reduces in the patient at least one of the amount and frequency of substance
                                         17

use by the patient. In some embodiments, the Compound A reduces in the patient at least
one symptom of abuse of, dependence on, or withdrawal from the at least one substance.
In some embodiments, the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of substance abuse
in the patient selected from recurrent substance use resulting in a failure to fulfill major
role obligations at work, school, or home; recurrent substance use in situations in which it
is physically hazardous; recurrent substance-related legal problems; and continued
substance use despite having persistent or recurrent social or interpersonal problems
caused or exacerbated by the effects of the substance.          In some embodiments, the
Compound A reduces at least one symptom of substance dependence in the patient
selected from tolerance; withdrawal; the substance is often taken in larger amounts or
over a longer period then was intended; there is a persistent desire and/or unsuccessful
efforts to cut down or control substance use; a great deal of time is spent in at least one of
activities to obtain the substance, use the substance, and recover from its effects; at least
one of important social, occupational and recreational activities are given up and/or
reduced because of substance use; and the substance use is continued despite knowledge
of having a persistent and/or recurrent physical and/or psychological problem that is
likely to have been caused or exacerbated by the substance. In some embodiments, the
Compound A promotes remission in the patient. In some embodiments, the remission is
characterized by at least one of early full remission, early partial remission, sustained full
remission, and sustained partial remission.      In some embodiments, the Compound A
prolongs a period of remission in the patient. In some embodiments, the methods further
include treatment with at least one of contingency management and cognitive behavioral
therapy.     In some embodiments, the methods further include co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from a selective
serotonin reuptake     inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor
(SNRI), a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI), a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake
inhibitor (NDRI), a serotonin 5-hydroxytryptaminelA (5HT1A) antagonist, a dopamine
j-hydroxylase inhibitor, an adenosine receptor antagonist, an adenosine A2A receptor
antagonist, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), a monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, a
sodium channel blocker, a calcium channel blocker, a central and peripheral alpha
adrenergic receptor antagonist, a central alpha adrenergic agonist, a central or peripheral
beta adrenergic receptor antagonist, a NK-1 receptor antagonist, a corticotropin releasing
factor   (CRF)    antagonist,  an atypical   antidepressant/antipsychotic,   a tricyclic,   an
anticonvulsant, a glutamate antagonist, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, a
                                          18

GABA metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a GABA synthesis activator, a partial dopamine D2
agonist, a dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a catechol-O-methyl-transferase
inhibitor, an opioid receptor antagonist, a mood stabilizer, a direct or indirect dopamine
agonist, a partial 5HT1 agonist, a serotonin 5HT2 antagonist, an opioid, a carboxylase
inhibitor, a partial opioid agonist, a partial nicotinic agonist, and an inhalant. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is a SSRI selected from paroxetine, sertraline,
citalopram, escitalopram, and fluoxetine.      In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is a SNRI selected from duloxetine, mirtazapine, and venlafaxine.              In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is a NRI selected from bupropion and
atomoxetine. In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the NDRI bupropion. In
some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the dopamine P-hydroxylase inhibitor
disulfiram.    In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the adenosine A2A
receptor antagonist istradefylline. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a
sodium channel blocker selected from lamotrigine, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, and
valproate.    In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a calcium channel
blocker    selected   from    nimodopone,    lamotrigine,  and   carbamazepine.    In   some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is the central and peripheral alpha adrenergic
receptor antagonist prazosin. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the
central alpha adrenergic agonist clonidine. In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is the central or peripheral beta adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is an atypical antidepressant/antipsychotic
selected from bupropion, olanzepine, risperidone, and quetiapine. In some embodiments,
the at least one other agent is a tricyclic selected from amitriptyline, amoxapine,
desipramine, doxepin, imipramine, nortriptyline, protiptyline, and trimipramine. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is an anticonvulsant selected from phenytoin,
lamotrigine, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, valproate, topiramate, tiagabine, vigabatrin,
and levetiracetam.     In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the glutamate
antagonist topiramate.     In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a GABA
agonist selected from baclofen, valproate, and topiramate. In some embodiments, the at
least one other agent is the dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor carbidopa. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is the partial dopamine D2 agonist aripiprazole.
In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is an opioid receptor antagonist
selected from naltrexone and naloxone.        In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is a mood stabilizer selected from carbamazepine and lithium.                 In some
                                          19

embodiments, the at least one other agent is a direct or indirect dopamine agonist selected
from dopamine, bromocriptine, pergolide, amantadine, mazindole, and methylphenidate.
In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial 5HT1 agonist gepirone. In
some embodiments, the at least other agent is the serotonin 5HT2 antagonist ritanserin.
In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the opioid methadone.               In some
embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial opioid agonist buprenorphine. In some
embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial nicotinic agonist champix. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is an inhalant selected from benzene, toluene,
o-xylene, m-xylene, p-xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene, 1,3,5
triflurobenzene,   1,2,4-trifluorobenzene,    pentafluorotoluene, pentafluorobenzene,     and
perfluorobenzene. In some embodiments, the methods further include co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from benzodiazepine,
levodopa,    carisprodol,     modafenil,    acamprosate,    gamma-butyrolactone,      gamma
hydroxybutyrate, opium, psilopcybin, hallucinogenic mushroom, tobacco, and nicotine.
In some embodiments, the Compound A is administered to the patient after a period of
abstinence from substance use by the patient. In some embodiments, the therapeutically
effective amount of Compound A in the patient is determined by escalating the amount of
Compound A administered to the patient until a desired therapeutic response is observed.
In some embodiments, the amount of Compound A is tapered off after remission is
reached in the patient. In some embodiments, the amount of Compound A is unchanged
after remission is reached in the patient.
[066] Also provided are methods of treating at least one phase of substance dependence
on at least one substance in a patient. In some embodiments, the at least one phase of
substance dependence is selected from acquisition, maintenance, extinction, and relapse.
The methods include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of
Compound A. In some embodiments, the Compound A inhibits the development of the
acquisition phase in the patient. In some embodiments, the Compound A promotes the
development of the extinction phase in the patient. In some embodiments, the Compound
A reduces the frequency of relapse in the patient. In some embodiments, the at least one
substance is selected from a drug of abuse and a medication. In some embodiments, the
drug of abuse is selected from a psychostimulant agent, an opioid, a hallucinogen, an
inhalant, a sedative, a tranquilizer, a hypnotic, an anxiolytic, and an illicit substance. In
some embodiments, the psychostimulant agent is a beta-phenylisopropylamine derivative.
                                           20

In some embodiments, the beta-phenylisopropylamine               derivative is selected from
amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, and methamphetamine.               In some embodiments, the
psychostimulant agent is selected from ecstasy, phenmetrazine, methylphenidate,
diethylpropion,    pemoline,    mazindol,    (-)  cathione,   and fenfluramine.       In some
embodiments, the opioid is selected from Lortab, Tramadol, heroin, methadone,
hydrocodone, and oxycodone. In some embodiments, the hallucinogen is selected from
psilocybin, a hallucinogenic mushroom, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), phencyclidine
(PCP), and ketamine.      In some embodiments, the inhalant is selected from benzene,
toluene, o-xylene, m-xylene, p-xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene,
1,3,5-triflurobenzene,   1,2,4-trifluorobenzene,     pentafluorotoluene,   pentafluorobenzene,
and perfluorobenzene.       In some embodiments, the medication is selected from an
anesthetic, an analgesic, an anticholinergic agent, an antihistamine, a muscle relaxant, a
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication, an over the counter medication, and an
antidepressant medication. In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is alcohol, caffeine,
opium, cannabinoid, cannabis, benzodiazapine, carisprodol, tobacco, nicotine, Vicodin,
Lorcet, Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox.           In some embodiments, the Compound A
treatment improves a score of the patient on at least one of the ADHD-IV, HAM-D,
HAM-A, BDI, apathy scale from Neuropsychiatric Inventory, and a cognitive function
rating scale. In some embodiments, the cognitive function rating scale is selected from
the WAIS-R, WMS-R, RAVLT, Trials I-VII, RCFT, and TMT, Parts A and B. In some
embodiments, the Compound A reduces in the patient at least one of the amount and
frequency of use of the at least one substance by the patient. In some embodiments, the
Compound A reduces in the patient at least one symptom of abuse of, dependence on, or
withdrawal from the at least one substance.         In some embodiments, the Compound A
reduces at least one symptom of substance abuse in the patient selected from recurrent
substance use resulting in a failure to fulfill major role obligations at work, school, or
home; recurrent substance use in situations in which it is physically hazardous; recurrent
substance-related legal problems; and continued substance use despite having persistent
or recurrent social or interpersonal problems caused or exacerbated by the effects of the
substance.    In some embodiments, the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of
substance dependence in the patient selected from tolerance; withdrawal; the substance is
often taken in larger amounts or over a longer period then was intended; there is a
persistent desire and/or unsuccessful efforts to cut down or control substance use; a great
deal of time is spent in at least one of activities to obtain the substance, use the substance,
                                           21

and recover from its effects; at least one of important social, occupational and recreational
activities are given up and/or reduced because of substance use; and the substance use is
continued despite knowledge of having a persistent and/or recurrent physical and/or
psychological problem that is likely to have been caused or exacerbated by the substance.
In some embodiments, the Compound A promotes remission in the patient. In some
embodiments, the remission is characterized by at least one of early full remission, early
partial remission, sustained full remission, and sustained partial remission.       In some
embodiments, the Compound A prolongs a period of remission in the patient. In some
embodiments, the methods further include treatment with at least one of contingency
management and cognitive behavioral therapy.          In some embodiments, the methods
further include co-administering a therapeutically effective amount of least one other
agent selected from a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI), a
norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI), a serotonin 5-hydroxytryptaminelA
(5HT1A) antagonist, a dopamine            -hydroxylase inhibitor, an adenosine receptor
antagonist, an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor
(MAOI), a monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, a sodium channel blocker, a calcium channel
blocker, a central and peripheral alpha adrenergic receptor antagonist, a central alpha
adrenergic agonist, a central or peripheral beta adrenergic receptor antagonist, a NK-1
receptor antagonist, a corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) antagonist, an atypical
antidepressant/antipsychotic, a tricyclic, an anticonvulsant, a glutamate antagonist, a
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, a GABA metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a
GABA synthesis activator, a partial dopamine D2 agonist, a dopamine metabolism
enzyme     inhibitor, a   catechol-O-methyl-transferase     inhibitor, an opioid receptor
antagonist, a mood stabilizer, a direct or indirect dopamine agonist, a partial 5HT1
agonist, a serotonin 5HT2 antagonist, an opioid, a carboxylase inhibitor, a partial opioid
agonist, a partial nicotinic agonist, and an inhalant. In some embodiments, the at least
one other agent is a SSRI selected from paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram, escitalopram,
and fluoxetine. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a SNRI selected
from duloxetine, mirtazapine, and venlafaxine. In some embodiments, the at least one
other agent is a NRI selected from bupropion and atomoxetine. In some embodiments,
the at least other agent is the NDRI bupropion. In some embodiments, the at least one
other agent is the dopamine P-hydroxylase inhibitor disulfiram. In some embodiments,
the at least one other agent is the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist istradefylline. In
                                          22

some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a sodium channel blocker selected from
lamotrigine, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, and valproate. In some embodiments, the at
least one other agent is a calcium channel blocker selected from nimodopone,
lamotrigine, and carbamazepine. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the
central and peripheral alpha adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin.              In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is the central alpha adrenergic agonist
clonidine. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the central or peripheral
beta adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol. In some embodiments, the at least one
other agent is an atypical antidepressant/antipsychotic           selected from bupropion,
olanzepine, risperidone, and quetiapine. In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is a tricyclic selected from amitriptyline, amoxapine, desipramine, doxepin,
imipramine, nortriptyline, protiptyline, and trimipramine. In some embodiments, the at
least one other agent is an anticonvulsant selected from phenytoin, lamotrigine,
carbamazepine,     oxcarbazepine,    valproate,    topiramate,  tiagabine,  vigabatrin,   and
levetiracetam.   In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the glutamate
antagonist topiramate. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a GABA
agonist selected from baclofen, valproate, and topiramate. In some embodiments, the at
least one other agent is the dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor carbidopa. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is the partial dopamine D2 agonist aripiprazole.
In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is an opioid receptor antagonist
selected from naltrexone and naloxone.        In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is a mood stabilizer selected from carbamazepine and lithium.                 In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is a direct or indirect dopamine agonist selected
from dopamine, bromocriptine, pergolide, amantadine, mazindole, and methylphenidate.
In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial 5HT1 agonist gepirone. In
some embodiments, the at least other agent is the serotonin 5HT2 antagonist ritanserin.
In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the opioid methadone.               In some
embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial opioid agonist buprenorphine. In some
embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial nicotinic agonist champix. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is an inhalant selected from benzene, toluene,
o-xylene, m-xylene, p-xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene, 1,3,5
triflurobenzene,   1,2,4-trifluorobenzene,    pentafluorotoluene, pentafluorobenzene,     and
perfluorobenzene. In some embodiments, the methods further include co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from benzodiazepine,
                                           23

levodopa,     carisprodol,  modafenil,       acamprosate,    gamma-butyrolactone,      gamma
hydroxybutyrate, opium, psilopcybin, hallucinogenic mushroom, tobacco, and nicotine.
In some embodiments, the Compound A is administered to the patient after a period of
abstinence from substance use by the patient. In some embodiments, the therapeutically
effective amount of Compound A in the patient is determined by escalating the amount of
Compound A administered to the patient until a desired therapeutic response is observed.
In some embodiments, the amount of Compound A is tapered off after remission is
reached in the patient. In some embodiments, the amount of Compound A is unchanged
after remission is reached in the patient.
[067]    Also provided are methods of treating at least one phase of cocaine dependence in
a patient. In some embodiments, the at least one phase is selected from acquisition,
maintenance, extinction, and relapse. The methods include administering to the patient a
therapeutically effective amount of Compound A. In some embodiments, the Compound
A inhibits the development of the acquisition phase in the patient. In some embodiments,
the Compound A promotes development of the extinction phase in the patient. In some
embodiments, the Compound A reduces the frequency of relapse in the patient. In some
embodiments, the Compound A reduces in the patient at least one symptom of abuse of,
dependence on, or withdrawal from cocaine. In some embodiments, the Compound A
reduces at least one symptom of cocaine abuse in the patient selected from recurrent
cocaine use resulting in a failure to fulfill major role obligations at work, school, or home;
recurrent cocaine use in situations in which it is physically hazardous; recurrent cocaine
related legal problems; and continued cocaine use despite having persistent or recurrent
social or interpersonal problems caused or exacerbated by the effects of the cocaine. In
some embodiments, the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of cocaine
dependence in the patient selected from tolerance; withdrawal; the cocaine is often taken
in larger amounts or over a longer period then was intended; there is a persistent desire or
unsuccessful efforts to cut down or control cocaine use; a great deal of time is spent in
activities to obtain the cocaine, use the cocaine, or recover from its effects; important
social, occupational or recreational activities are given up or reduced because of cocaine
use; and the cocaine use is continued despite knowledge of having a persistent or
recurrent physical or psychological problem that is likely to have been caused or
exacerbated by the cocaine. In some embodiments, the Compound A reduces at least one
symptom of cocaine abuse and dependence selected from attention deficit hyperactivity
                                           24

disorder; euphoria; increased energy, excitement and sociability; less hunger and fatigue;
a marked feeling of physical and mental strength; decreased sensation of pain; bronchitis;
shortness of breath; chest pain; heart palpitations; arrhythmia; cardiomyopathy; heart
attack; dilated pupils; nausea; vomiting; headache; vertigo; dizziness; anxiety; pychosis;
confusion; nasal irritation; nasal crusting; recurrent nosebleeds; nasal stuffiness; facial
pain; dysphoria; and craving for cocaine.        In some embodiments, the Compound A
increases at least one negative subjective symptom of cocaine abuse and dependence. In
some embodiments, the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of cocaine
withdrawal selected from fatigue, lack of pleasure, depression, irritability, sleep disorders,
increased appetite, pyschomotor retardation, agitation, extreme suspicion, and craving for
cocaine. In some embodiments, the Compound A improves a score of the patient on at
least one of ADHD-IV, HAM-D, HAM-A, BDI, apathy scale from Neuropsychiatric
Inventory, and a cognitive function rating scale.      In some embodiments, the cognitive
function rating scale is selected from WAIS-R, WMS-R, RAVLT, Trials I-VII, RCFT,
and TMT, Parts A and B. In some embodiments, the Compound A reduces at least one of
the amount and frequency of cocaine use by the patient.          In some embodiments, the
Compound A promotes remission in the patient. In some embodiments, the remission is
characterized by at least one of early full remission, early partial remission, sustained full
remission, and sustained partial remission.       In some embodiments, the Compound A
prolongs a period of remission in the patient. In some embodiments, the methods further
include treatment with at least one of contingency management and cognitive behavioral
therapy.     In some embodiments, the methods further include co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from a selective
serotonin reuptake     inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor
(SNRI), a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI), a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake
inhibitor (NDRI), a serotonin 5-hydroxytryptaminelA (5HT1A) antagonist, a dopamine
  -hydroxylase inhibitor, an adenosine receptor antagonist, an adenosine A2A receptor
antagonist, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), a monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, a
sodium channel blocker, a calcium channel blocker, a central and peripheral alpha
adrenergic receptor antagonist, a central alpha adrenergic agonist, a central or peripheral
beta adrenergic receptor antagonist, a NK-1 receptor antagonist, a corticotropin releasing
factor  (CRF)    antagonist,   an atypical   antidepressant/antipsychotic,   a tricyclic,   an
anticonvulsant, a glutamate antagonist, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, a
GABA metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a GABA synthesis activator, a partial dopamine D2
                                         25

agonist, a dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a catechol-O-methyl-transferase
inhibitor, an opioid receptor antagonist, a mood stabilizer, a direct or indirect dopamine
agonist, a partial 5HT1 agonist, a serotonin 5HT2 antagonist, an opioid, a carboxylase
inhibitor, a partial opioid agonist, a partial nicotinic agonist, and an inhalant. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is a SSRI selected from paroxetine, sertraline,
citalopram, escitalopram, and fluoxetine.      In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is a SNRI selected from duloxetine, mirtazapine, and venlafaxine.             In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is a NRI selected from bupropion and
atomoxetine. In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the NDRI bupropion. In
some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the dopamine P-hydroxylase inhibitor
disulfiram.   In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the adenosine A2A
receptor antagonist istradefylline. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a
sodium channel blocker selected from lamotrigine, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, and
valproate.   In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a calcium channel
blocker selected from nimodopone,           lamotrigine,  and carbamazepine.       In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is the central and peripheral alpha adrenergic
receptor antagonist prazosin. In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the
central alpha adrenergic agonist clonidine. In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is the central or peripheral beta adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is an atypical antidepressant/antipsychotic
selected from bupropion, olanzepine, risperidone, and quetiapine. In some embodiments,
the at least one other agent is a tricyclic selected from amitriptyline, amoxapine,
desipramine, doxepin, imipramine, nortriptyline, protiptyline, and trimipramine. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is an anticonvulsant selected from phenytoin,
lamotrigine, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, valproate, topiramate, tiagabine, vigabatrin,
and levetiracetam.    In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is the glutamate
antagonist topiramate.    In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is a GABA
agonist selected from baclofen, valproate, and topiramate. In some embodiments, the at
least one other agent is the dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor carbidopa. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is the partial dopamine D2 agonist aripiprazole.
In some embodiments, the at least one other agent is an opioid receptor antagonist
selected from naltrexone and naloxone.        In some embodiments, the at least one other
agent is a mood stabilizer selected from carbamazepine and lithium.                In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is a direct or indirect dopamine agonist selected
                                          26

from dopamine, bromocriptine, pergolide, amantadine, mazindole, and methylphenidate.
In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial 5HT1 agonist gepirone. In
some embodiments, the at least other agent is the serotonin 5HT2 antagonist ritanserin.
In some embodiments, the at least other agent is the opioid methadone.              In some
embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial opioid agonist buprenorphine. In some
embodiments, the at least other agent is the partial nicotinic agonist champix. In some
embodiments, the at least one other agent is an inhalant selected from benzene, toluene,
o-xylene, m-xylene, p-xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene, 1,3,5
triflurobenzene,    1,2,4-trifluorobenzene,    pentafluorotoluene, pentafluorobenzene,   and
perfluorobenzene. In some embodiments, the methods further include co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from benzodiazepine,
levodopa,     carisprodol,     modafenil,    acamprosate,    gamma-butyrolactone,    gamma
hydroxybutyrate, opium, psilopcybin, hallucinogenic mushroom, tobacco, and nicotine.
In some embodiments, the Compound A is administered to the patient after a period of
abstinence from cocaine use by the patient. In some embodiments, the therapeutically
effective amount of Compound A in the patient is determined by escalating the amount of
Compound A administered to the patient until a desired therapeutic response is observed.
In some embodiments, the amount of Compound A is tapered off after remission from
cocaine dependence is reached in the patient.          In some embodiments, the amount of
Compound A is unchanged after remission from cocaine dependence is reached in the
patient. In some embodiments, the Compound A treats at least one symptom of abuse of,
dependence on, or withdrawal from at least one secondary substance in the patient. In
some embodiments, the at least one secondary substance is selected from a drug of abuse
and a medication.        In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is selected from a
psychostimulant agent, an opioid, a hallucinogen, an inhalant, a sedative, a tranquilizer, a
hypnotic, an anxiolytic, and an illicit substance.              In some embodiments, the
psychostimulant agent is a beta-phenylisopropylamine derivative. In some embodiments,
the     beta-phenylisopropylamine        derivative     is  selected   from    amphetamine,
dextroamphetamine, and methamphetamine. In some embodiments, the psychostimulant
agent is selected from ecstasy, phenmetrazine,              methylphenidate, diethylpropion,
pemoline, mazindol, (-) cathione, and fenfluramine. In some embodiments, the opioid is
selected from Lortab, Tramadol, heroin, methadone, hydrocodone, and oxycodone.            In
some embodiments, the hallucinogen is selected from psilocybin, a hallucinogenic
mushroom, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), phencyclidine (PCP), and ketamine.            In
                                            27

some embodiments, the inhalant is selected from benzene, toluene, o-xylene, m-xylene, p
xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene,         1,3,5-triflurobenzene,  1,2,4
trifluorobenzene, pentafluorotoluene, pentafluorobenzene, and perfluorobenzene.             In
some embodiments, the medication is selected from an anesthetic, an analgesic, an
anticholinergic   agent, an antihistamine,      a muscle relaxant,      a nonsteroidal   anti
inflammatory medication, an over the counter medication, and an antidepressant
medication.     In some embodiments, the drug of abuse is alcohol, caffeine, opium,
cannabinoid, cannabis, benzodiazapine, carisprodol, tobacco, nicotine, Vicodin, Lorcet,
Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox.
[068]   Pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives include acids, bases, enol ethers, and
esters, esters, hydrates, solvates, and prodrug forms. The derivative is selected such that
its pharmokinetic properties are superior with respect to at least one characteristic to the
corresponding neutral agent. The Compound A may be derivatized prior to formulation.
[069]   A therapeutically effective amount of Compound A or a pharmaceutically
acceptable derivative may vary widely depending on the severity of the addiction or
dependence, the age and relative health of the subject, the potency of the compound used
and other factors. In certain embodiments a therapeutically effective amount is from
about 0.1 milligram per kg (mg/kg) body weight per day to about 50 mg/kg body weight
per day. In other embodiments the amount is about 1.0 to about 10 mg/kg/day. Therefore,
in certain embodiments a therapeutically effective amount for a 70 kg human is from
about 7.0 to about 3500 mg/day, while in other embodiments it is about 70 to about 700
mg/day.
[070]   One of ordinary skill in the art of treating such diseases will be able to ascertain a
therapeutically effective amount of Compound A for treatment or prevention of addiction
or dependence without undue experimentation and in reliance upon personal knowledge
and the disclosure of this application. In general, by way of example and without
limitation, Compound A will be administered as pharmaceutical compositions by one of
the following routes: oral, systemic (e.g., transdermal, intranasal or by suppository) or
parenteral (e.g., intramuscular, intravenous or subcutaneous). Compositions can, by way
of example and without limitation, take the form of tablets, pills, capsules, semisolids,
powders, sustained release formulations, solutions, suspensions, elixirs, aerosols, or any
other appropriate composition and are comprised of, in general, Compound A in
combination with at least one pharmaceutically            acceptable excipient. Acceptable
                                          28

excipients are, by way of example and without limitation, non-toxic, aid administration,
and do not adversely affect the therapeutic benefit of the compound. Such excipient may
be, for example, any solid, liquid, semisolid or, in the case of an aerosol composition,
gaseous excipient that is generally available to one of skill in the art.
[071]   Solid pharmaceutical excipients include by way of example and without limitation
starch, cellulose, talc, glucose, lactose, sucrose, gelatin, malt, rice, flour, chalk, silica gel,
magnesium stearate, sodium stearate, glycerol monostearate, sodium chloride, dried skim
milk, and the like. Liquid and semisolid excipients may be selected from for example and
without limitation water, ethanol, glycerol, propylene glycol and various oils, including
those of petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin (e.g., peanut oil, soybean oil,
mineral oil, sesame oil, etc.). Preferred liquid carriers, particularly for injectable
solutions, include by way of example and without limitation water, saline, aqueous
dextrose and glycols. Compressed gases may be used to disperse the compound in aerosol
form. Inert gases suitable for this purpose are by way of example and without limitation
nitrogen, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, etc.
[072]   The pharmaceutical preparations can by way of example and without limitation,
moreover, contain preservatives, solubilizers, stabilizers, wetting agents, emulsifiers,
sweeteners, colorants, flavorants, salts for varying the osmotic pressure, buffers, masking
agents or antioxidants. In certain embodiments, they can contain still other therapeutically
valuable substances. Other suitable pharmaceutical carriers and their formulations are
described in A. R. Alfonso Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences 1985, 17th ed. Easton,
Pa.: Mack Publishing Company.
[073]   The amount of Compound A in the composition may vary widely depending for
example, upon the type of formulation, size of a unit dosage, kind of excipients and other
factors known to those of skill in the art of pharmaceutical sciences. In general, the final
composition will comprise from 10% w to 90% w of the compound, preferably 25% w to
75%    w, with the remainder being           the excipient or excipients.        Preferably the
pharmaceutical composition is administered in a single unit dosage form for continuous
treatment or in a single unit dosage form ad libitum when relief of symptoms is
specifically required.
                                           29

EXAMPLES
Example 1
[074]   Following oral administration of [ 14C]-nepicastat, the majority of the radioactivity
in plasma was associated with nepicastat, an N-linked glucuronide of nepicastat
(Metabolite 2, M2), and an unidentified polar fraction (Ml). There was no significant
accumulation of nepicastat with multiple dosing and TI/ 2 was similar after single and
multiple doses. TI/ 2 was 10 -14 hours. No significant differences in the Cmax or AUC for
nepicastat were noted between subjects with the fast acetylator phenotype and those with
the slow acetylator phenotype, although Cmax and AUC for the N-acetyl metabolite were,
as expected, much lower in the slow acetylators than in the fast acetylators. In a study
comparing the pharmacokinetics of a 40 mg tablet taken while fasting or after a meal,
there was no significant difference in the plasma concentrations. Tax was increased to 3.5
hours after a meal from 1.4 hours in the fasted state.
[075]   The pharmacokinetics of nepicastat after a single 40 mg dose was compared in
men and women. The AUC in women was approximately 43% greater than in men and
the Cmax approximately 23% greater in women than in men. The T1/2 was longer in
women than in men. Comparing the pharmacokinetics of nepicastat following 10 days of
dosing with a 40 mg dose, the AUC was higher in healthy subjects than in patients with
CHEF, with no difference in the T1/2.        There was no significant accumulation with
multiple dosing in either population.
[076]   In humans, compound-related radioactivity is rapidly eliminated.        On average,
87.4% of the administered radiolabel was recovered in the first 72 hours with 82.4% in
the urine and 5.01% in the feces. After 10 days, the mean total recovery of the radiolabel
was 93.8%. In plasma, the Tax, for the radioactivity was 1-2 hours (similar to that for
nepicastat).  In both rapid and slow acetylators, an N-linked glucuronide of nepicastat
accounted for the greatest percentage of the total radioactivity in plasma (26.8%) and
urine (57.9%) over 0 to 48 hours. The terminal T1/2 for total radioactivity in plasma was
found to be very long (~100 hours), most likely due to a polar fraction present in low
concentrations that was slowly eliminated.
                                         30

Example 2
[077]    In a study designed to assess the effects of nepicastat on cognitive function,
subjects treated with 5 or 40 mg of nepicastat demonstrated no significant impairment of
mood, sleep, or cognition. In studies of thyroid uptake of   123,  doses of 5, 40, and 100 mg
of nepicastat demonstrated no differences from placebo.          Reduction of uptake after a
single 200 mg dose of nepicastat was significantly greater than placebo, but significantly
less than that following a 10 mg dose of methimazole. In single-dose Phase I studies,
doses from 5 to 800 mg (dose calculation based on the hydrochloride salt) of nepicastat
were generally well tolerated in healthy men.
Example 3
[078]    In a multiple-dose Phase I study of nepicastat, doses of 5 and 40 mg were
generally well tolerated in healthy men.
[079]    Five of the 6 subjects treated for 8 days or longer with 200 mg developed a rash
which resolved spontaneously.
[080]    One subject developed atrial arrhythmias and intermittent right bundle branch
block after 6 days of dosing with 200 mg of nepicastat.
Example 4
[081]    Sixteen non-treatment-seeking     cocaine-dependent      volunteers are studied as
inpatients using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subjects design. After giving
informed consent, potential volunteers complete outpatient psychiatric and medical
screening. Eligible volunteers are admitted and a physical examination, EKG, pregnancy
testing and psychiatric testing are completed. The study utilizes a dose-escalation design
in which participants (n=12) receive ascending doses of cocaine (0 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg,
and 40 mg) during daily treatment with ascending doses of nepicastat (0 mg, 80 mg, 160
mg). A parallel group of participants (n=4) receive only daily treatment with placebo for
the duration of the study in order to maintain the blind. Treatment at each dose level are
daily for 4 days, or well over 4 half-lives of nepicastat, which is 10 to 14 hours. On the
4 th day of treatment at each dose level, participants receive cocaine 0 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg,
and 40 mg in that order. Cocaine is administered at hourly intervals, providing sufficient
time for both the cardiovascular and subjective effects to return to baseline.
                                          31

Cardiovascular indices are carefully monitored using continuous EKG and frequent blood
pressure during all procedures involving the administration of cocaine, and stopping
parameters are in place so that cocaine is not be administered if cardiovascular indices
exceed preset limits. Previous studies have shown that 6 doses of 32 mg cocaine given at
14-minute intervals is safe, and extending the inter-dose interval to 1 hour may enhance
safety further. Blood samples are collected for analysis of the pharmacokinetics of 10 mg
cocaine administered on the    3 rd day of treatment with 0 mg nepicastat and again on the 3 rd
day of treatment with 80 mg and 160 mg nepicastat. The effects of nepicastat on the
pharmacokinetics of cocaine are studied. Based on existing information, no interaction is
expected.
[082]   About 12 days are required for each participant to complete the study. The 16
participants may complete the study within one year.
[083]   In order to participate in the study, participants must:
    1. Be English-speaking volunteers who are not seeking treatment at the time of the
        study;
    2. Be between 18-55 years of age;
    3.  Meet DSM-IV TR criteria for cocaine dependence;
    4. Have a self-reported history of using cocaine by the IV route and provide at least
        one cocaine-positive urine prior to admission;
    5.  Have vital signs as follows: resting pulse between 50 and 95 bpm, blood pressures
        between 85-150 mm Hg systolic and 45-96 mm Hg diastolic; this criterion must
        be met within 2 days of admission;
    6. Have hematology and chemistry laboratory tests that are within normal (+/- 10%)
        limits with the following exceptions: a) liver function tests (total bilirubin, ALT,
        AST, and alkaline phosphatase) < 3 x the upper limit of normal, and b) kidney
        function tests (creatinine and BUN) < 2 x the upper limit of normal;
    7. Have a baseline EKG that demonstrates clinically normal sinus rhythm, clinically
        normal conduction, and no clinically significant arrhythmias;
                                             32

    8. Have a medical history and brief physical examination demonstrating no clinically
         significant contraindications for study participation, in the judgment of the
         admitting physician and the principal investigator.
[084]    Potential participants are excluded from participation in the study if any of the
following apply:
1. Have any history or evidence suggestive of seizure disorder or brain injury;
2. Have any previous medically adverse reaction to cocaine, including loss of
    consciousness, chest pain, or epileptic seizure;
3.  Have neurological or psychiatric disorders, such as:
*   psychosis, bipolar illness or major depression as assessed by SCID;
e   organic brain disease or dementia assessed by clinical interview;
*   history of any psychiatric disorder which would require ongoing treatment or which
    would make study compliance difficult;
*   history of suicide attempts within the past three months assessed by SCID and/or
    current suicidal ideation/plan as assessed by SCID;
4. Have evidence of clinically significant heart disease or hypertension, as determined by
    the PI, though participants may be taking antihypertensive medication;
5. Have a family history in first-degree relatives of early cardiovascular morbidity or
    mortality, as determined by the PI;
6. Have evidence of untreated or unstable medical illness including: neuroendocrine,
    autoimmune, renal, hepatic, or active infectious disease;
7. Have HIV and are currently symptomatic, have a diagnosis of AIDS, or are receiving
    antiretroviral medication;
8. Be pregnant or nursing. Other females must either be unable to conceive (i.e., surgically
    sterilized, sterile, or post-menopausal) or be using a reliable form of contraception (e.g.,
    abstinence, birth control pills, intrauterine device, condoms, or spermicide). All females
                                             33

    must provide negative pregnancy urine tests before study entry, upon hospital admission,
    and at the end of study participation;
9. Have asthma or currently use alpha or beta agonists, theophylline, or other
    sympathomimetics;
10. Have any other illness, condition, or use of psychotropic medications, which in the
    opinion of the PI and/or the admitting physician would preclude safe and/or successful
    completion of the study.
Criteria for Discontinuation Following Initiation
11. Positive urine drug screen or breath test indicating illicit use of cocaine, cocaine,
    alcohol, opiates, or other abused drugs not delivered as part of this protocol;
12. Inability to comply with study procedures;
13. Meet discontinuation criteria due to exaggerated response to cocaine, described
    below.
Stopping Criteria
[085]   Participants must continue to meet inclusion criteria in order to remain in the
protocol.    Cocaine administration is not initiated if there are clinically significant
arrhythmias or if vital signs are outside of acceptable ranges: resting pulse < 130 bpm and
blood pressure below 165 mm Hg systolic and 100 mm Hg diastolic. These values are
higher than those of the inclusion/exclusion criteria because transient increases in vital
signs can occur in expectation of receiving cocaine.          In addition, repeated doses of
cocaine are not administered (and the study physician halts continued cocaine delivery) if
there are behavioral manifestations of cocaine toxicity (agitation, psychosis, inability to
cooperate with study procedures).
Stopping Criteria for Further Participation
[086]   Subject participation is terminated if any of the following events occur:
    1. Systolic BP > 180 mm Hg sustained for 5 minutes or more;
    2. Diastolic BP > 120 mm Hg sustained for 5 minutes or more;
                                           34

    3.   Heart rate > (220 - age x 0.85) bpm sustained for 5 minutes or more.
Rationale for Subject Selection Criteria
[087]    Participants are required to have used cocaine by the IV route to avoid exposing
participants to routes of administration that produce more intensive interoceptive effects.
The age criteria were selected primarily to avoid enrolling participants with undiagnosed
cardiovascular disease. Participants with active HIV disease are excluded to avoid
potential exacerbation of their underlying disease; participants with asymptomatic HIV
are included because this group is at high risk for cocaine dependence. Participants with
asthma (or who take asthma medications) are excluded due to potential adverse
interactions between beta agonist medications and cocaine.
Study Medications
[088]    Cocaine produces prototypical stimulant effects by inhibiting the uptake of DA,
NE, and serotonin into presynaptic storage granules.       Cocaine has a short elimination
half-life, about 90 min.      The principal clinical effects of cocaine are psychomotor
activation and increases in sympathetic tone, evident as increases in heart rate and blood
pressure.
[089]    Cocaine is administered at up to 40 mg in single doses and up to 200 mg in self
administration sessions consisting of 10 doses of 20 mg administered at 13 min intervals.
These doses are modest compared to amounts that participants in these studies have
reported using daily; typical daily dosing patterns are on average 250 mg to 500 mg or
more.
[090]    Doses much higher than those proposed here have been associated with seizures
and with severe cardiovascular toxicity and death.           These potential toxicities are
ameliorated by the use of relatively low doses, careful screening of potential volunteers,
by careful monitoring of participants following administration of cocaine, and by the
ready availability of medical intervention in the case of an adverse event.
[091]    Cocaine is administered IV, so availability is complete. Cocaine is metabolized
primarily to benzoylecgonine by plasma esterases that are not known to be affected by
nepicastat. Benzyoleconine and other minor metabolites are excreted renally.
                                          35

[092]   Cocaine for IV use in humans is obtained from a NIDA contractor and a letter of
authorization to allow us to reference NIDA's IND for cocaine is obtained and submitted
to the FDA.
[093]   Ascending doses of nepicastat (0 mg, 80 mg, and 160 mg) are administered at 7
AM. Treatment at each dose level is continued for 4 days.
[094]   By starting at a lower dose and increasing the dose after completing the first series
of study procedures, the risks of the combination of nepicastat and cocaine are be
minimized. This approach also may reduce the risk for rash, which occurred in 7% to
20% of volunteers thus far.      Rash incidence was associated with dose and treatment
duration. Doses above 160 mg conferred a greater risk for rash.
[095]   No pharmacokinetic interactions are expected because nepicastat is not an enzyme
inhibitor, though pharmacokinetic assessment of the 10 mg does of cocaine administered
on the  3 rd day of treatment at each dose level of nepicastat can confirm this. Because
nepicastat reduces the synthesis of NE, the rewarding effects of cocaine may be lower
during treatment with nepicastat.       Because nepicastat increases plasma and brain
concentrations of DA, DA-mediated side effects such as paranoia may occur.             These
symptoms were not observed during the trials for CHF, but stimulants were not
administered in those studies.
[096]   Following consent, participants are required to submit a cocaine-positive urine
sample for documentation of ongoing drug use. Some participants (limited by the number
of devices available) are also asked to wear a telemetry device during screening and
throughout the study that records heart rate and movement. Data from this device can
identify drug use episodes based on changes in these parameters.
[097]   To control nicotine exposure, smoking is prohibited within 2 hours of study
procedures involving cocaine administration or cue exposure. Participants are required to
refrain from illicit and prescription drug use for the duration of the study and this is
confirmed with daily urine and breath alcohol level testing.
[098]   Experimental sessions are conducted at approximately the same time of day for a
given participant.     Cocaine is administered in an experimental room.         Cocaine is
administered using a syringe pump, which administers the correct dose of cocaine or
                                         36

saline placebo over 2 minutes. During and for 1 hour after drug administration sessions
heart rate and blood pressure are monitored.
[099]    Participants undergo a targeted history and physical examination. Blood is drawn
for standard laboratory examination, including CBC, electrolytes, LFT, and creatinine.
HIV screening is performed as a service to participants and those testing positive are
counseled and referred for treatment.
[0100] The Actiheart MiniMitter is used to measure heart rate and movement prior to
admission in some volunteers (the number is limited by the number of devices available).
The MiniMitter attaches to the participants' skin using paste and non-invasively records
EKG and movement for up to two weeks.            The data can be downloaded to a PC for
analysis later.
[0101] Participants must meet DSM-IV-TR criteria for cocaine and nicotine dependence,
determined by the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) and defined by
inclusion/exclusion criteria.     The MINI is a short, structured diagnostic interview
developed in 1990 by psychiatrists and clinicians in the United States and Europe for
DSM-IV TR and ICD-10 psychiatric disorders. The MINI is the structured psychiatric
interview of choice for psychiatric evaluation and outcome tracking in clinical
psychopharmacology trials and epidemiological studies, and is the most widely used
psychiatric structured diagnostic interview instrument in the world. This instrument can
be used to determine whether the subject met DSM-IV TR criteria for drug dependence
and to rule out any major psychiatric disorders (e.g., affective disorders, schizophrenia).
[0102] The Addiction Severity Index-Lite Clinical Factors (ASI-Lite CF) version is
administered by a trained research staff member during screening. The ASI-Lite is the
interviewer's estimate of the severity of the participant's status in seven areas (medical,
employment, drug use, alcohol use, legal, family/social, and psychological).         The Lite
version is a shorter version of the ASI that still retains all questions used to calculate the
ASI composite scores. The family history section of the ASI, as the ASI-Lite version
collects minimal family history information, are retained.
[0103] There is a third-generation Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), revised in 1996.
The    instrument retains    its  original 21-item     questionnaire   format that    requires
approximately 10 minutes to complete. The BDI-II has been validated against the BDI
                                          37

IA and continues to be an excellent index of depression/distress. This indicator is used to
monitor participants who become clinically depressed during the trial, making it also a
measure for participants' safety.
[0104] Current attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms are assessed
weekly, using the ADHD-IV rating scale.
[0105] The apathy scale from the Neuropsychiatric Inventory are collected at baseline.
[0106] DNA is collected with buccal swabs applied to Whatman FTA cards. These cards
allow safe and stable storage of biological samples for DNA extraction. The anticipated
yield of genomic DNA is 50-100 gg, which is adequate for over 500 genotype assays
using currently available methods.
[0107] Genotypes are determined using 5' Exonuclease-based (Taqman) genotyping
assays. Assays are developed by Applied Biosystems (ABI; Assays by Design). Allele
discrimination are performed using the ABI 3730 realtime PCR cycler.
[0108]     Blood samples for analysis of the pharmacokinetics of cocaine are collected
during treatment with 0 mg nepicastat (study day 1) and during treatment with 80 mg and
160 mg nepicastat (study days 4 and 8). Blood samples are collected at -15, 20, 30, 40,
50, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, 300, 360, 420 and 480 minutes following dosing of 10 mg
cocaine on the  3 rd day of treatment with each dose level of nepicastat. Note that other
doses of cocaine (0-40 mg) are administered on the 4 th day of treatment with each dose
level of nepicastat, so the pharmacokinetic assessment does not interfere with the other
assessments. Blood is collected and plasma separated and frozen at -70 0 C until analyzed.
Cocaine and BE are assayed using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry
(LC/MS/MS).      The reference lab has a limit of quantification of 2.5 ng/ml for these
assays.     The pharmacokinetic      analysis clarifies  effects of nepicastat     on the
pharmacokinetics of cocaine.
[0109] DBH is stored in NE storage granules and is released along with NE. Plasma
DBH thus gives a good index of enzymatic activity within the CNS. Blood is sampled
daily at 10 AM (prior to cocaine/placebo dosing) and stored for subsequent analysis.
DBH activity is measured by using the tyramine-octopamine method using a high
performance liquid chromatographic-fluorometric system, as described previously. This
                                         38

allows examination of changes in DBH over time, providing an insight into the
pharmacodynamics of nepicastat's inhibition of DBH.               The BDI is administered
repeatedly throughout the protocol to monitor changes in mood.
[0110] Subjective effects are measured using a computerized visual analogue scale
(VAS) consisting of a continuous 10 cm line digitized for scoring purposes from 0 to 100.
Participants are required to move the cursor from off the left-hand extreme and onto the
line by depressing the left or right mouse buttons for left and right movements on the line.
The VAS is designed to provide rapidly acquired ratings of cocaine euphoria, dysphoria
and craving.     These include ratings of "Any Drug Effect," "High," "Good Effects,"
"Stimulated," and "Bad Effects," "Feel Paranoid," "Feel Suspicious," and "Would Use
Cocaine if Available," "Crave Cocaine," "Could Refuse Cocaine Now," and "Desire
Cocaine."    VAS measures are collected prior to cocaine administration and at 5, 10, 15,
20, 30, and 45 minutes following drug administration.
[0111] Fifteen minutes after cocaine administration participants are asked how much they
would pay for that dose of drug, based on $50/gm (current cost if purchases from illicit
sources). This anchor is provided to standardize responses given that the price of cocaine
varies over time and place.
[0112] On Day 13, the last day of treatment with study medication, all patients participate
in the "Experimental Sessions" where subjects make a series of choices between money
and a double blinded infusion of placebo (saline) or 20 mg cocaine.          In one of the
sessions, only placebo (saline) is available. In the other session, only 20 mg cocaine is
available. Participants choose to either self-administer placebo or accept money and 20
mg cocaine vs. money. This occurs in the morning (am) and in the afternoon (pm), with
the order randomized and counterbalanced so that placebo or nepicastat is administered
first to equal numbers of subjects.
Experimental (choice) session:
[0113] During each session subjects are asked to make a series of choices between an
infusion corresponding to a color ("blue" or "green"), and money. The color corresponds
to the dose (cocaine 0 mg or 20 mg) administered to the subject during the sample
session. For each of the 2 choice sessions, participants make 10 choices for the infusion
(cocaine 0 mg IV in one session and cocaine 20 mg in the other) or money.               The
                                         39

participant makes a series of choices between ascending value money options ($0.05,
$0.05, $0.05, $0.05,     $1, $4, $7, $10,    $13,   and $16)   or cocaine (0 mg or 20
mg/IV/infusion) using a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump.
[0114] Infusion choices are performed by the participant using the PCA button, while
choices for money are indicated verbally to the investigator. Infusions take place over 2
min followed by a 3-min time-out period.          As such, selections are made at 5-min
intervals.
[0115] Participants receive cocaine doses immediately after indicating their choice,
providing vital signs remain within preset limits up to a maximum of 200 mg cocaine (10
X 20 mg). Money choices are given directly to the patient immediately after the choice,
but this money must be spent prior to discharge.
    The table shows the Experimental choice sessions with 16 total participants.
          Choices             8 participants                    8 participanIts
 am       Choice 1     0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 am       Choice 2     0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 am       Choice 3     0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 am       Choice 4     0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 am       Choice 5     0 mg cocaine IV or $1.00         20 mg cocaine IV or $1.00
 am       Choice 6     0 mg cocaine IV or $4.00         20 mg cocaine IV or $4.00
 am       Choice 7     0 mg cocaine IV or $7.00         20 mg cocaine IV or $7.00
 am       Choice 8     0 mg cocaine IV or $10.00        20 mg cocaine IV or $10.00
 am       Choice 9     0 mg cocaine IV or $13.00        20 mg cocaine IV or $13.00
 am       Choice 10    0 mg cocaine IV or $16.00        20 mg cocaine IV or $16.00
                                        40

 pm      Choice 1       20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 pm      Choice 2       20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 pm      Choice 3       20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 pm      Choice 4       20 mg cocaine IV or $0.05         0 mg cocaine IV or $0.05
 pm      Choice 5       20 mg cocaine IV or $1.00         0 mg cocaine IV or $1.00
 pm      Choice 6       20 mg cocaine IV or $4.00         0 mg cocaine IV or $4.00
 pm      Choice 7       20 mg cocaine IV or $7.00         0 mg cocaine IV or $7.00
 pm      Choice 8       20 mg cocaine IV or $10.00        0 mg cocaine IV or $10.00
 pm      Choice 9       20 mg cocaine IV or $13.00        0 mg cocaine IV or $13.00
 pm      Choice 10      20 mg cocaine IV or $16.00        0 mg cocaine IV or $16.00
[0116] A sample size of 12 in the nepicastat-treated group allows detection of medium to
large effects, which is appropriate for an initial assessment. The plot (Figure 1) shows the
effect size achieved with sample sizes ranging from 5 to 15. Increasing the sample size
above 12 would enhance analytical power to detect differences between the treatments
but at increasing cost. The placebo-treated group is included only to maintain the blind
and is not intended to serve as a comparison group.
[0117]      The analysis focuses primarily on the effects of nepicastat in the nepicastat
treated group.   The placebo-treated group is included primarily to maintain the blind.
Side effects and adverse events (AEs) are tabulated and compared across treatment
conditions using ANOVA or Chi-square. Subjective and cardiovascular effects produced
by IV cocaine and placebo during treatment with nepicastat are compared to those
produced during treatment with placebo using repeated measures (time being the repeated
measure) analysis of variance (ANOVA), peak effect one-way ANOVA, and if indicated,
area under the curve ANOVA.
Example 5
[0118] Bovine and human dopamine          -hydroxylase activity were assayed by measuring
the conversion of tyramine to octopamine. Bovine adrenal dopamine P-hydroxylase was
                                          41

obtained from Sigma Chemicals (St Louis, MO, USA) whereas human dopamine 0
hydroxylase was purified from the culture medium of the neuroblastoma cell line SK-N
SH. The assay was performed at pH 5.2 and 320C in a medium containing 0.125 M
NaAc, 10 mM fumarate, 0.5 - 2 gM CuSO4, 0.1 mg.ml- 1 catalase, 0.1 mM tyramine and 4
mM ascorbate. In a typical assay, 0.5 - 1 milliunits of enzyme were added to the reaction
mixture and, subsequently, a substrate mixture containing catalase, tyramine and
ascorbate was added to initiate the reaction (final volume of 200 gl).       Samples were
incubated with or without the appropriate concentration of nepicastat or Compound B at
370C for 30 to 40 minutes. The reaction was quenched by the stop solution containing 25
mM EDTA and 240 gM 3-hydroxytyramine (internal standard).               The samples were
analyzed for octopamine by reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC)
using ultraviolet-detection at 280 nM. The HPLC chromatography run was carried out at
the flow rate of 1 ml.min-1 using a LiChroCART 125-4 RP-18 column and isocratic
elution with 10 mM acidic acid, 10 mM 1-heptane sulfonic acid, 12 mM tetrabutyl
ammonium phosphate and 10% methanol. The remaining percent activity was calculated
based on controls, corrected using internal standards and fitted to a non-linear four
parameter concentration-response curve.
[0119] Nepicastat     (S-enantiomer)     and    Compound     B   (R-enantiomer)   produced
concentration-dependent inhibition of bovine and human dopamine P-hydroxylase
activity. The calculated IC 50 's for nepicastat were 8.5 ± 0.8 nM and 9.0 ± 0.8 nM for the
bovine and human enzyme, respectively. Compound B was slightly less potent (IC 5 o's of
25.1 ± 0.6 nM and 18.3 ± 0.6 nM for the bovine and human enzyme, respectively) than
nepicastat. Nepicastat was shown to be a potent inhibitor of human and bovine dopamine
P-hydroxylase in vitro. The inhibitory effects of the compound were stereospecific since
the S-enantiomer (nepicastat) was marginally, but significantly, more potent than the R
enantiomer (Compound B).
[0120] The activity of nepicastat at twelve selected enzymes and receptors was
determined using established assays. A brief account of the principle underlying each of
the enzymatic assays is given in Figure 2. Binding data were analyzed by iterative curve
fitting to a four parameter logistic equation. Ki values were calculated from IC 50 values
using the Cheng-Prusoff equation.        Enzyme inhibitory activity was expressed as IC5 0
(concentration required to produce 50% inhibition of enzyme activity).
                                           42

[0121] Nepicastat had negligible affinity (IC 5 os or Kis > 10 gM) for a range of other
enzymes (tyrosine hydroxylase, acetyl CoA synthetase, acyl CoA-cholesterol acyl
transferase, Ca 2 /calmodulin protein kinase II, cyclooxygenase-I, HMG-CoA reductase,
neutral endopeptidase, nitric oxide synthase, phosphodiesterase III, phospholipase A2 , and
protein kinase C) and neurotransmitter receptors         (U1A,  UlB,  C2A, U2B,  01  and 02
adrenoceptors, Mi muscarinic receptors, Di and D 2 dopamine receptors, g opioid
receptors, 5-HTiA, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT 2c serotonin receptors). Nepicastat displayed a high
degree of selectivity for dopamine p-hydroxylase as the compound possessed negligible
affinity for twelve other enzymes and thirteen neurotransmitter receptors.
[0122] In studies involving SHRs, the drugs, nepicastat ((S)-5-aminomethyl-1-(5,7
difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-1,3-dihydroimidazole-2-thione        hydrochloride)
and the corresponding R-enantiomer (Compound B), were dissolved in distilled water and
dosed orally with a gavage needle. In the dog studies, the drugs were filled in capsules
and dosed orally. All doses are expressed as free base equivalents.
[0123] Male SHRs (15 - 16 weeks old, Charles River, Wilmington, MA, USA) were used
in in vivo studies. On the day of the study, animals were weighed and randomly assigned
to be dosed with either vehicle (control) or the appropriate dose of nepicastat (3, 10, 30 or
100 mg.kg- 1, po) or Compound B (30 mg.kg- 1, po) three consecutive times, twelve hours
apart.   At six hours after the third dose, the rats were anaesthetized with halothane,
decapitated and tissues (cerebral cortex, mesenteric artery and left ventricle) were rapidly
harvested, weighed, placed in iced perchloric acid (0.4 M), frozen in liquid nitrogen and
stored at -70 0C until subsequent analysis.      To quantify noradrenaline and dopamine
concentrations, tissues were homogenized by brief sonication and centrifuged at 13,000
rpm for 30 minutes at 40 C.     The supernatant, spiked with 3, 4-dihydroxybenzylamine
(internal standard), was assayed for noradrenaline and dopamine by HPLC using
electrochemical detection.
[0124] Basal tissue catecholamine content (gg.g-l wet weight) in control animals were as
follows : mesenteric artery (noradrenaline, 10.40 ± 1.03; dopamine, 0.25 ± 0.02), left
ventricle (noradrenaline, 1.30 ± 0.06; dopamine, 0.02 ± 0.00) and cerebral cortex
(noradrenaline, 0.76 ± 0.03; dopamine, 0.14 ± 0.01).           Nepicastat produced dose
dependent reduction in noradrenaline content and enhancement of dopamine content and
dopamine/noradrenaline ratio in the three tissues which were studied.
                                         43

[0125] These changes attained statistical significance (p < 0.05) at doses of > 3 mg.kg-1 in
the mesenteric artery and left ventricle but only at doses of 30 and 100 mg.kg- 1 in the
cerebral cortex.    At the highest dose studied (100 mg.kg- 1, po), the decreases in
noradrenaline were 47%, 35%, 42% and increases in dopamine were 820%, 800% and
86% in the mesenteric artery, left ventricle and cerebral cortex, respectively. When tested
at 30 mg.kg- 1, po, nepicastat produced significantly greater changes in catecholamine
content, as compared to the R-enantiomer (Compound B), in the mesenteric artery and
left ventricle.
[0126] Male beagle dogs (10 - 16 kg, Marshall Farms USA Inc, North Rose, NY, USA)
were also used in in vivo studies.     On the day of the study, dogs were weighed and
randomly assigned to be orally dosed with either empty capsules (control) or the
appropriate dose of nepicastat (0.05, 0.5, 1.5 or 5 mg.kg- 1; po, b.i.d.) for 5 days. At six
hours following the first dose on day-5, the dogs were euthanized with pentobarbital and
the tissues (cerebral cortex, renal artery, left ventricle) were rapidly harvested.      The
tissues were subsequently processed and analyzed for noradrenaline and dopamine.
[0127] Data are expressed as mean ± standard error of the mean (SEM).             Tissue and
plasma catecholamine data were analyzed using a non-parametric one-way analysis of
variance (ANOVA) or two-way ANOVA, respectively, followed by pairwise comparison
using Fisher LSD test. P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
[0128] Basal tissue catecholamine content (gg.g-1 wet weight) in control animals were as
follows: renal artery (noradrenaline, 10.7 ± 1.05; dopamine, 0.22 ± 0.01), left ventricle
(noradrenaline, 2.11 ± 0.18; dopamine, 0.07 ± 0.03) and cerebral cortex (noradrenaline,
0.26 ± 0.02; dopamine, 0.03 ± 0.00).       When compared to control animals, nepicastat
produced a dose-dependent reduction in noradrenaline content and enhancement of
dopamine content and dopamine/noradrenaline ratio in the three tissues which were
studied.
[0129] These changes attained statistical significance (p < 0.05) at doses of > 0.1 mg.kg
'.day-1 in the three tissues.  At the highest dose studied (5 mg.kg-1, b.i.d., po), the
decreases in noradrenaline were 88%, 91% and 96% and increases in dopamine were
627%, 700% and 166% in the renal artery, left ventricle and cerebral cortex, respectively.
                                          44

[0130] Male beagle dogs were randomized to be orally dosed with either empty capsules
(control) or nepicastat ( 2 mg.kg- 1, po, b.i.d.) for 15 days. Daily venous blood samples
were drawn, six hours after the first dose, for measurement of plasma concentrations of
dopamine and noradrenaline. The samples were collected in tubes containing heparin and
glutathione, centrifuged at -40 C and the separated plasma was stored at -70 0 C until
analysis. The baseline concentrations of catecholamines in two groups of animals were
not significantly different    from each other: plasma noradrenaline       and dopamine
concentrations were 460.3 ± 59.6 and 34.4 ± 11.9 pg.ml-1, respectively, in the control
group and 401.9 ± 25.5 and 41.1 ± 8.8 pg.ml-1, respectively, in the nepicastat-treated
group. When compared to the control group, nepicastat (2 mg.kg- 1, b.i.d, po) produced
significant decreases in plasma concentrations of noradrenaline and increases in plasma
concentrations of dopamine and dopamine/noradrenaline ratio.
[0131] Inhibitory modulation of sympathetic nerve function, through pharmacological
means, is an attractive therapeutic strategy for the management of congestive heart
failure, inasmuch as elevated activity of this system has been implicated in the
progressive worsening of the disease. The aim of this study was to pharmacologically
characterize the effects of nepicastat, a compound which modulates noradrenaline
synthesis in sympathetic nerves by inhibiting the enzyme dopamine P-hydroxylase.
[0132] Inhibition of dopamine P-hydroxylase in vivo would be expected to result in
elevated levels of the substrate (dopamine) and diminished levels of the product
(noradrenaline) in tissues which receive noradrenergic innervation. This expectation was
borne out in experiments which investigated the effects of nepicastat on catecholamine
levels in central and peripheral tissues in vivo. In both SHRs and beagle dogs, nepicastat
produced dose-dependent reductions in noradrenaline content and increases in dopamine
content in peripheral (mesenteric or renal artery, left ventricle) and central (cerebral
cortex) tissues. In this respect, Compound B was less potent than nepicastat which is
consistent with the lower IC 50 of the former enantiomer for the enzyme.         Although
dopamine/noradrenaline ratio was also elevated, there did not appear to be stoichiometric
replacement of noradrenaline with dopamine.           The most likely explanation for this
finding is that tissue levels of dopamine may have been underestimated due to
intraneuronal metabolism of dopamine.
                                          45

[0133] The ability of nepicastat to alter catecholamine levels in the cerebral cortex
suggests that the drug does penetrate the blood brain barrier. In dogs, the magnitude of
the changes in catecholamines in the cerebral cortex appeared comparable to those in
peripheral tissues. In SHRs, however, nepicastat, at low doses (< 10 mg.kg- 1), produced
significant changes in noradrenaline and dopamine content in peripheral tissues without
affecting catecholamines in the cerebral cortex. This suggests that, at least in SHRs, the
drug does possess modest peripheral selectivity.
[0134] Plasma noradrenaline      concentrations    provide a useful measure of overall
sympathetic nerve activity although this parameter may be influenced by alterations in
neuronal uptake and metabolic clearance of the catecholamine. Baseline concentrations
of noradrenaline in the plasma were surprisingly elevated in the dogs and is, perhaps, a
reflection of the initial stress induced by the phlebotomy blood-sampling procedure.
Nevertheless, compared to the control group, nepicastat produced significant decreases in
plasma noradrenaline concentrations consistent with reduced transmitter synthesis and
release although an indirect effect, secondary to facilitation of neuronal uptake or
metabolic clearance, cannot be discounted.       Since released noradrenaline represents a
small fraction of the total neuronal noradrenaline stores, an inhibitor of noradrenaline
biosynthesis would affect noradrenaline release only after existing stores of the
catecholamine have been sufficiently depleted.       Accordingly, the decreases in plasma
noradrenaline concentrations did not attain statistical significance until 4 days of dosing
with nepicastat suggesting gradual modulation of the sympathetic nervous system.
[0135] A growing body of evidence suggests that chronic activation of the sympathetic
nervous system in congestive heart failure is a maladaptive response. This contention is
supported by clinical trials which have shown a beneficial effect of carvedilol in
congestive heart failure patients with respect to long-term morbidity and mortality.
However, it should be noted that most patients do require some level of sympathetic drive
to support cardiovascular homeostasis.       Indeed, the therapeutic value of      -blockers,
including carvedilol, may be limited by their propensity to cause hemodynamic
deterioration especially during initiation of therapy. This unwanted effect, which results
from abrupt withdrawal of sympathetic support, necessitates careful dose-titration.
Inhibitors of dopamine 0-hydroxylase, such as nepicastat, may be devoid of this
undesirable effect for the following reasons. First, this class of drugs would attenuate, but
not abolish, noradrenaline release and, second, they produce gradual modulation of the
                                          46

system thereby obviating the need for dose-titration.       Another advantage of nepicastat
over   -blockers is that it enhances dopamine levels which, via agonism of dopamine
receptors, may have salutary effects on renal function such as renal vasodilation, diuresis
and natriuresis.
[0136] Nepicastat is a potent, selective and orally active inhibitor of dopamine
hydroxylase which may be of value in the treatment of cardiovascular disorders
associated with over-activation of the sympathetic nervous system.
Example 6
[0137] The preparation of nepicastat was based upon the chiral reduction of tetralone 3
(available from the AlCl 3-catalyzed Friedel-Crafts reaction of 3,5-difluorophenylacetyl
chloride with ethylene in CH 2 Cl 2 at -65 'C) under the conditions described by Terashima
(LAH, (-)-1R,2S-N-methylephedrine, 2-ethylaminopyridine) to give R-(+)-tetralol 4a (92
95% ee), that was converted to the R-(+)-mesylate, followed by reaction with sodium
azide afforded a mixture (9:1) of azide and dihydronaphthalene 7.           The azide was
hydrogenated     and the product treated with anhydrous HCl to give S-(-)-amine
hydrochloride, converted by a Strecker reaction (formaldehyde bisulfite complex and
KCN) to S-(-)-aminonitrile.        Formation of the heterocycle was accomplished by
sequential   diformylation of aminonitrile      followed by subsequent treatment with
thiocyanic acid. Competing hydrolysis of the nitrile afforded comparable amounts of the
primary amide. Reduction of nitrile to amine ( 9 3 - 9 6 % ee) was accomplished using LAH
in THF.    The enantiomer (91.6% ee) was available by the same above described route
using (+)-1S,2R-N-methylephedrine as a chiral auxiliary in the Terashima reduction of
ketone.    The absolute configuration of the chiral center was based upon literature
precedence of the previously described S-(-)-2-tetralol.
[0138] Melting points were determined on a Uni-Melt Thomas Hoover Capillary Melting
Point Apparatus or a Mettler FB 81HT cell with a Mettler FP90 processor and are
uncorrected. Mass spectra were obtained with either a Finnigan MAT 8230 (for electron
impact or chemical ionization) or Finnigan MAT TSQ70 (for LSIMS) spectrometer. 1H
NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker ACF300, AM300, AMX300 or EM390
spectrometer and chemical shifts are given in ppm (6) from tetramethylsilane as internal
standard. IR spectra were recorded on a Nicolet SPC FT-IR spectrometer. UV spectra
                                           47

were recorded on a Varian Cary 3 UV-Visible spectrometer, Leeman Labs Inc. Optical
rotations were measured in a Perkin-Elmer Model 141 polarimeter. Chiral HPLC
measurements were performed on a Regis Chiral AGP column (4.6 x 100 mm) eluting
with 2% acetonitrile-98% 20 mM KH 2 PO 4 (pH 4.7) at 1 mL/min at 20 'C.
[0139]       5,7-Difluoro-2-tetralone.  SOCl 2 (100 mL) was added in one portion to 3,5
difluorophenylacetic acid (100 g, 0.58 mol) and after stirring for 15 h, the volatiles were
evaporated under reduced pressure.       The resulting oily acid chloride was dissolved in
CH 2 Cl 2 (200 mL) and added dropwise to a mechanically stirred suspension of AlCl 3 (154
g, 1.16 mol) in CH 2 Cl 2 (1.0 L).      The stirred suspension was cooled to an internal
temperature of -65 'C in a dry ice/acetone bath, and the acid chloride solution was added
at such a rate in order to maintain an internal temperature <-60 'C. After the addition was
complete, ethylene gas was bubbled through the reaction mixture at a rapid rate for 10
min at -65 'C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 0 'C over 2 h with stirring,
and was then cooled to -10 'C and treated with H2 0 (500 mL) initially dropwise,
followed by rapid addition. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine (100
mL) and dried over MgSO 4. Evaporation under reduced pressure gave a dark oily residue
which was distilled in vacuo on a Kugelrohr collecting material boiling between 90-110
'C (1.0 to 0.7 mm Hg). The distillate was redistilled at 100-105 'C (0.3 mm Hg) to give
the product as a white solid, (73.6 g, 0.40 mol; 70%): mp 46 'C; IR (KBr) 1705 cm-1 ; H
NMR (CDCl 3) 6 2.55 (t, J=7.5 Hz, 2H), 3.10 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 3.58 (s, 2H), 6.70 (m,
2H); MS m/z 182 (Mm). Anal. Calcd for CioHsF 2 0: C, 65.93; H, 4.42. Found: C, 65.54;
H, 4.42.
[0140]       (R)-(+)-2-Hydroxy-5,7-difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene.    A solution of
(-)-1R,2S-N-methylephedrine (81.3 g, 0.454 mol) in anhydrous Et 20 (1.1 L) was added
dropwise (45 min) to 1.0 M lithium aluminum hydride (416 mL, 0.416 mol) in Et 20 at a
rate sufficient to maintain a gentle reflux. After the addition was complete, the reaction
mixture was heated at reflux for 1 h then allowed to cool to room temperature. A solution
of 2-ethylaminopyridine (111 g, 0.98 mole) in anhydrous Et 20 (100 mL) was added (45
min) at such a rate as to maintain a gentle reflux. The reaction mixture was heated at
reflux for a further 1 h, during which time a light yellow-green suspension appeared. The
mixture was cooled to an internal temperature of -65 'C using a dry ice-acetone bath and
a solution of 5,7-difluoro-2-tetralone (23.0 g, 126 mmol) in Et 20 (125 mL) was added
dropwise at a rate maintaining the internal temperature below -60 'C. After the addition
                                          48

was complete, the mixture was stirred at -65          0C  to -68 0 C for 3 h and quenched by the
                                                                                                   0 C.  The
addition of MeOH (100 mL) maintaining the internal temperature below -60
reaction was stirred for a further 10 min at -65       0C  and allowed to warm to approximately
-20 0 C. A solution of 3N HCl (2 L) was then added at a rate to limit the temperature to
<35   0 C.  After stirring at an increased rate to achieve total dissolution, the layers were
separated and the ethereal layer was washed with brine (200 mL) and dried (MgSO 4 ).
The ethereal solution was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in
warm Et 2 0 (20 mL) followed by the addition of hexane (200 mL). The seeded solution
was cooled in an ice bath and maintained at 00 C for 1 h whereupon the resulting
deposited crystals were collected and dried in vacuo to give the alcohol (10.9 g, 47 %):
mp 85    oC; [U] 2 5 D +38.10 (c = 1.83, CHCl 3 ); 93.4% ee by chiral HPLC: H NMR (CDCl 3)
6 1.70 (br s, 1H), 1.76-1.88 (m, 2H), 1.99-2.06 (m, 2H), 2.63-3.08 (m, 3H), 4.15 (m, 1H),
6.60 (m, 2H). Anal. Calcd for CioHioF 20: C, 65.21; H, 5.47. Found: C, 65.38: H, 5.42.
The spectra for the (S)-enantiomer 4b are identical: mp 84-85 0 C;               [U] 2 5 D -37.80 (c  = 1.24,
CHCl 3 ); 92.4% ee by chiral HPLC. Anal. Calcd for CioHioF 20: C, 65.21; H, 5.47. Found:
C, 65.47; H, 5.39.
[0141]        (R)-(+)-2-Methanesulfonyloxy-5,7-difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene.                     A
solution of R-(+)-5,7-difluoro-2-tetralol (59.0 g, 320 mmol) and Et 3N (74.2 mL, 53.9 g,
530 mmol) in anhydrous Et 2 0 (1.78 L) was cooled (-15 0 C) using an ice-MeOH bath and
treated under argon with stirring with MsCl (37.2 mL, 55.3 g, 480 mmol) over 5-10 min.
After 5 h the reaction was complete (as determined by TLC) and water was added to
dissolve the solids. A small amount of EtOAc was added to help complete dissolution of
the solids. The organic phase was separated and washed sequentially with IN HCl, aq.
NaHCO 3, brine and dried over MgSO 4 . Evaporation of the solvent gave an off-white
solid (87.1 g, 332 mmol), used directly in the next step. Trituration of a small sample
with i-Pr 20 gave an analytical sample: mp 78.8-80.5           0 C; [U] 2 5
                                                                            D +16.80 (c     = 1.86, CHCl3 );
IH  NMR 6 2.13-2.28 (m, 2H), 2.78-2.96 (m, 2H), 3.07 (s, 3H), 3.09 (dd, J= 17.1 Hz, 4.7,
1H), 3.20 (dd, J        = 17.2, 4.7 Hz, 1H), 5.20 (m, 1H), 6.67 (m, 2H).                   Anal. Calcd for
CIIH 12 F2 0 3 S: C, 50.37; H, 4.61.     Found: C, 50.41; H, 4.64. The spectra for the (S)
enantiomer 5b are identical: mp 79.9-80.9           0 C; [U] 2 5 D -16.60 (c =2.23, CHCl 3 ). Anal.
Calcd for CnIH 12 F2 0 3 S: C, 50.37; H, 4.61. Found: C, 50.41; H, 4.65.
[0142]        (S)-(-)-2-Amino-5,7-difluoro- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene                    hydrochloride.
Sodium azide (40.0 g, 0.62 mol) was added to DMSO (1 L) with stirring until a clear
                                            49

solution was obtained. The mesylate (138 g, 0.53 mol) was added in one portion and the
mixture heated at 500 C for 16 h under a N 2 atmosphere.               The reaction mixture was
diluted with H2 0 (1.8 L) and extracted with pentane (4 x 250 mL) followed by
sequentially washing the combined pentane extracts with H 2 0 (2 x 100 mL), brine (100
mL) and drying over MgSO 4 . Evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure gave a
volatile oil which was rapidly chromatographed on silica using pentane as the eluent to
give dihydronaphthalene (8.50 g, 51.2 mmol) as a volatile oil.               Further elution with
pentane/CH 2Cl 2 (9:1) afforded the azide (101 g, 483 mmol) as a colorless oil: IR (CHCl 3)
2103 cm-1 ; m/z 171 (Mm).         The azide 6a was dissolved in EtOAc (1200 mL) and
hydrogenated over 10% Pd/C (6 g) in a 2.5 L Parr bottle (60 psi) for 6 h. After each hour,
the bottle was evacuated and recharged with hydrogen to remove evolved N 2 .                   The
resulting mixture was filtered through Celite, stirred with ethereal HCl (IN, 500 mL), and
the fine precipitate filtered off and washed with EtOAc, and then anhydrous ether. (The
filtration took about 4 h). The moist solid was transferred to a round-bottom flask, and
the remaining solvent removed in vacuo to give a white solid (90.4 g, 412 mmol; 77.9%):
mp >280 'C; [U] 2 5 D -60.2' (c =2.68, MeOH); 1H NMR (d6 -DMSO) 6 1.79 (im, 1H), 2.33
(m, 1H), 2.63 (m, 1H), 2.83-2.92 (m. 2H), 3.14 (dd, J= 16.7, 5.0 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (m, 1H),
6.93 (d, J= 9.4 Hz, 1H), 7.00 (dt, J= 9.4, 2.5 Hz, 1H). Anal. Calcd for CioH 12 ClF2N: C,
54.68; H, 5.51; N, 6.37.      Found: C, 54.31; H, 5.52; N, 6.44. The spectra for the (R)
enantiomer 8b are identical: mp >280 'C; [U] 2 5 D +58.50 (c        = 1.63, MeOH). Anal. Calcd
for CioH 12ClF 2N: C, 54.68; H, 5.51; N, 6.37. Found: C, 54.64; H, 5.51; N, 6.40.
[0143]       (S)-(-)-(5,7-Difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)(cyanomethyl)amine.           The
amine hydrochloride 8a (50.27 g, 229 mmol) was treated with a solution of NaOH (10.0
g. 250 mmol) in water (150 mL), followed by a few additional pellets of NaOH sufficient
to obtain a solution. Further water (300 mL) was added and the mixture placed in a 50 0 C
bath and treated with formaldehyde sodium bisulfite complex (30.8 g, 230 mmol). After
the mixture had been stirred for 30 min, KCN (15.0 g, 230 mmol) was added.                     The
reaction mixture was stirred for a further 1 h at 80 0 C, cooled to room temperature, and
extracted with EtOAc to give an oil (51.3 g) which solidified. TLC (5% MeOH-CH 2 Cl 2)
showed ca. 10-15% of starting amine remained.            Chromatography on silica gave the
nitrile product (39.4 g) and starting free amine (7.12 g), which quickly forms the
carbonate in air. Recycling this amine gave an additional 5.35 g of product. Combined
yield (44.8 g, 202 mmol; 87.5%): mp 73.1-76.5        0 C; [U] 2 5 D -58.00 (c =  1.63, CHCl 3 ); 1H
                                            50

NMR (CDCl 3) 6 1.50 (br s, 1H), 1.70 (m, 1H), 2.05 (m, 1H), 2.55-3.04 (m, 4H), 3.22 (m,
1H), 3.70 (s, 2H), 6.62 (m, 2H); MS m/z 222 (Mm).                   Anal. Called for C12 H 12 F2N 2 : C,
64.85; H, 5.44; N, 12.60. Found: C, 65.07; H, 5.47; N, 12.44. The spectra for the (R)
enantiomer 9b are identical: mp 64.4-73.6          0 C; [U] 2 5 D  +52.30 (c =2.12, CHCl3 ). Anal.
Called for C 12 H 12 F2N 2 : C, 64.85; H, 5.44; N, 12.60. Found: C, 65.14; H, 5.54; N, 12.53.
[0144]         (S)-(-)-1-(5,7-Difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-5-cyano-2,3-dihydro-2
thioxo-1H-imidazole.         The nitrile (44.7 g, 201 mmol) in butyl formate (240 mL) was
heated at reflux (120       0C  bath) under N 2 for 19 h, and the solvent then removed under
reduced pressure.       Toluene was added and evaporated to remove last traces of solvent,
and the residue was dried under high vacuum to give an oil (53.2 g).                   The resulting
formamide and ethyl formate (48.7 mL, 44.7 g, 604 mmol) in anhydrous THF (935 mL)
were cooled in ice/MeOH (-15 0C) and stirred while t-BuOK (IM in THF, 302 mL, 302
mmol) was added over 20 min. After the reaction had been stirred for 18 h, the solvent
was evaporated, the residue dissolved in IN HCl (990 mL) and ethanol (497 mL), and
treated with KSCN (78.1 g, 804 mmol). The mixture was stirred for 135 min at 85 0 C
and then placed in an ice bath to give a precipitate.             The filtered solid was loaded as a
slurry in 10% MeOH/CH 2 Cl 2 on to a silica (1 kg) column packed in hexane. Elution with
10% acetone/CH 2Cl 2 gave the product (18.05 g, 62.1 mmol; 30.8%): m.p. 240.7-249.2
oC;   [V] 25 D  -69.1" (c =1.18, DMSO); 1H NMR (d 6-DMSO) 6 2.18 (br m, 1H), 2.47 (m,
1H), 2.75 (m, 1H), 3.03-3.35 (m, 3H), 5.19 (m, 1H), 6.94 (d, J= 9.3 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (dt, J=
9.3, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.29 (s, 1H), 13.3 (br s, 1H); MS m/z 291 (Mm).                    Anal. Calcd for
C 14 H1 1F2N 3 S: C, 57.72; H, 3.80; N, 14.42. Found: C, 57.82; H, 3.92; N, 14.37. (Further
elution of the column with 1:1 MeOH/CH 2 Cl 2 gave the primary amide lla: mp 261.9
262.7 0C; [V] 25 D -90.50 (c     =  0.398); IR (KBr) 1593, 1630 cm-1 ; 1H NMR (d 6-DMSO) 6
2.14 (m, 1H), 2.15-2.28 (m, 1H), 2.74-3.05 (m, 4H), 5.64 (m, 1H), 6.90 (d, J= 9.2 Hz,
1H), 7.05 (dt. J= 9.5, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.73 (s, 1H), 9.70 (br s, 1H), 13.7 (br s, 1H); MS m/z
309 (Mm). Anal. Calcd for C1 4 H13 F2N 3 0S-0.25H 2 0: C, 53.57; H, 4.33; N, 13.39. Found:
C, 53.32; H, 3.96: N, 13.24. The spectra for the (R)-enantiomer are identical: mp 243.1
244.7 0C; [V] 25 D +74.90 (c      = 2.14, DMSO). Anal. Calcd for C 14 H11 F2 N 3 S: C, 57.72; H,
3.80; N, 14.42. Found: C, 57.85; H, 3.85; N, 14.45.
[01451         (S)-1-(5,7-Difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-5-aminomethyl-2,3
dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazole.          The above nitrile (5.00 g, 17.2 mmol) in THF (75 mL)
                                              51

was stirred under argon in an ice bath until a homogeneous solution was obtained. A
solution of LAH in THF (1 M, 34.3 mL, 34.3 mmol) was added dropwise over 10 min,
then the solution was stirred for 30 min at 0 'C and allowed to come to room temperature
for 1.5 h. The reaction was again cooled to 0 'C and treated with a saturated solution of
sodium potassium tartrate until the mixture became freely stirrable.          Further tartrate
solution (30 mL) was added, followed by 10% MeOH/CH 2 Cl 2 (200 mL) and the mixture
stirred for 15 min and treated with water (100-150 mL). The organic layer was separated
and the aqueous phase extracted with 10% MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 125 mL). The combined
extracts were washed, dried (MgSO4), and evaporated. Chromatography of the residue
(5.2 g) on silica eluting with 5% MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 gave the free amine (2.92 g, 9.89 mmol;
58%):     mp     170    'C;   [V]  D  -11.00    (c =   1.59, DMSO).        Anal.   Calcd    for
C 14 Hi 5F2N 3 S-0.25H 2 0: C, 56.07; H, 5.21; N, 14.01. Found: C, 56.11; H, 5.10; N, 14.14.
[0146]        (S)-1-(5,7-Difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-5-aminomethyl-2,3
dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazole hydrochloride (nepicastat). The hydrochloride salt was
prepared by the addition of ethereal HCl (IM, 20 mL, 20 mmol) to the free amine 2a
(3.12 g, 10.6 mmol) which had been dissolved in MeOH (250 mL) by warming. The
solvent was partially removed under reduced pressure and displaced by co-evaporation
with EtOAc several times without evaporating to dryness. The resulting precipitate was
treated with EtOAc (150 mL) and ether (150 mL), filtered off, washed with ether, and
dried under nitrogen and then under high vacuum at 78             0C   for 20 h to give the
hydrochloride salt (3.87 g): mp 245 0 C (dec); [a]2 5 D +9.650 (c  =  1.70, DMSO); (93% ee
by chiral HPLC); 1H NMR (T         = 320 OK, DMSO) 6 2.07 (m, 1H), 2.68-3.08 (m, 4H), 4.09
(m, 3H), 4.77 (m, 1H), 6.84 (m, 2H), 7.05 (s, 1H), 8.57 (br s, 3H), 12.4 (br s, 1H). Anal.
Calcd for C14H16ClF 2N3S-0.5H 20: C, 49.33; H, 5.03; N, 12.33. Found: C, 49.44; H,
4.96; N, 12.18.           The spectra for the (R)-enantiomer (R)-1-(5,7-Difluoro-1,2,3,4
tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-5-aminomethyl-2,3-dihydro- are identical; mp 261-263 0 C;        [U] 2 5 D
-10.80    (c    =   1.43,   DMSO),    91.6%     ee by chiral   HPLC.       Anal. Calcd for
C14H16ClF 2N 3S-0.35H 20: C, 49.73; H, 4.98; N, 12.42. Found: C, 49.80; H, 4.93; N,
12.39.
[0147] Nepicastat was demonstrated to be a competitive inhibitor of bovine (IC50      =  8.5
0.8 nM) and human (IC 50 = 9.0 ± 0.8 nM) DBH. The R-enantiomer (R)-1-(5,7-Difluoro
1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-2-yl)-5-aminomethyl-2,3-dihydro- (IC5os       = 25.1 ± 0.6 nM; 18.3
                                             52

± 0.6 nM) and SKF 102698 (IC 5 os      =  67.0 ± 4.2 nM; 85.0 ± 3.7 nM) are less potent
inhibitors of the bovine and human enzymes, respectively. DBH activity was assayed by
measuring the conversion of tyramine to octopamine. Bovine DBH from adrenal glands
was obtained from Sigma Chemical Co (St Louis, MO).            Human secretory DBH was
purified from the culture medium of the neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-SH.         The assay
was performed at pH 5.2 and 32 'C in 0.125 M NaOAc, 10 mM fumarate, 0.5 -2 tM
CUSO 4 , 0.1 mg/mL catalase, 0.1 mM tyramine and 4 mM ascorbate. In a typical assay,
0.5 - 1 milliunits of enzyme were added to the reaction mixture and then a substrate
mixture containing catalase, tyramine and ascorbate was added to initiate the reaction
(final volume of 200     tL).  Samples were incubated with or without the appropriate
concentration of the inhibitor at 37 'C for 30 - 40 min. The reaction was quenched by the
stop solution containing 25 mM EDTA and 240               tM 3-hydroxytyramine (internal
standard). The samples were analyzed for octopamine by reverse phase HPLC using UV
detection at 280 nM.    The remaining percent activity was calculated based on controls
(without inhibitor), corrected using internal standards and fitted to a non-linear 4
parameter concentration-response curve to obtain IC 5 0 values.
[0148] The activity of nepicastat at eleven different enzymes was determined using
established assays.    The affinity of nepicastat for thirteen selected receptors was
determined by radioligand binding assays using standard filtration techniques and
membrane preparations. Binding data were analyzed by iterative curve fitting to a four
parameter logistic equation. Ki values were calculated using the Cheng-Prusoff equation.
Figure 3 shows a table describing the interaction of nepicastat at DBH and a range of
selected enzymes and receptors. Nepicastat showed weak affinity for a range of other
enzymes and neurotransmitter receptors.      These data suggest that nepicastat is a potent
and highly selective inhibitor of DBH in vitro. Moreover, the S-enantiomer nepicastat is
approximately 2-3 fold more potent than the R-enantiomer suggesting stereoselectivity.
[0149] Oral administration of nepicastat to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and
normal dogs produced potent and dose-dependent             increases in tissue dopamine
(DA)/norepinephrine (NE) ratios in peripheral arteries (renal or mesenteric), left ventricle
and cerebral cortex.    Chronic oral administration of nepicastat to normal dogs also
produced sustained increases in the plasma DA/NE ratio. In conscious SHRs, acute oral
administration   of nepicastat    produced dose-dependent      and long-lasting (> 4 h)
                                         53

antihypertensive effects and also attenuation of the pressor responses to pre-ganglionic
sympathetic nerve stimulation. Serum T3 and T4 levels were unaffected by a dose (6.2
mg/kg, po, b.i.d. for 10 days) which elevated the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the
mesenteric artery. On the basis of its ability to potently modulate the sympathetic drive to
cardiovascular tissues, nepicastat has been clinical evaluated for the treatment of
congestive heart failure.
[0150] Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a leading cause of mortality in the United States.
CHF is characterized by marked activation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and
renin-angiotensin    system   (RAS).      The    simultaneous   activation  of these two
neurohormonal systems has been increasingly implicated in the perpetuation and
progression of CHF.       Therapeutic interventions which block the effects of these
neurohormonal systems are likely to favorably alter the natural history of CHF. Indeed,
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, which block formation of angiotensin
II, have been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality in CHF patients. ACE inhibitors,
however, have a limited indirect ability to attenuate the SNS. Inhibition of the SNS with
P-adrenoceptor antagonists is a promising approach that is currently under clinical
evaluation.    An alternative strategy to directly modulate the SNS is inhibition of
norepinephrine (NE) biosynthesis via inhibition of dopamine        -hydroxylase (DBH), the
enzyme responsible for conversion of NE to dopamine (DA). Inhibition of DBH would
be expected to reduce tissue levels of NE and elevate tissue levels of DA thereby
increasing the tissue DA/NE ratio.      This approach has potential advantages over 0
adrenoceptor antagonists, such as reduced stimulation of a-adrenoceptors and elevated
DA levels that can produce renal vasodilation, natriuresis and diminished aldosterone
release. Previous DBH inhibitors, such as fusaric acid and SKF-102698, have drawbacks
such as low potency and specificity, that have precluded their clinical development in
heart failure.
[0151] Nepicastat was used in in vivo biochemical studies to study the effects in
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and normal beagle dogs.           On the day of the
study, the animals were weighed and randomly assigned to receive either placebo
(vehicle) or the appropriate dose of nepicastat. Each rat was dosed orally three times, 12
h apart, beginning in the morning. At 6 h after the third dose, the rats were anesthetized
with halothane, decapitated, and the tissues (cerebral cortex, mesenteric artery and left
ventricle) were rapidly harvested, weighed, placed in iced 0.4 M perchloric acid, frozen in
                                         54

liquid nitrogen and stored at -70'C until analysis. Tissue NE and DA concentrations were
assayed by HPLC using electrochemical detection.           Male beagle dogs (10 - 16 kg,
Marshall Farms USA Inc, North Rose, NY) were used in the study. On the day of the
study, dogs were randomly assigned to receive either placebo (empty capsule) or the
appropriate dose of nepicastat. Each dog was dosed twice a day for 4.5 days. 6 h after
the first dose on day 5, the dogs were euthanized with pentobarbital and the tissues
(cerebral cortex. renal artery, left ventricle) harvested, weighed, placed in iced 0.4 M
perchloric acid, frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -70 'C until analysis. Tissue NE
and DA concentrations were assayed by HPLC using electrochemical detection.
[0152] Oral administration of nepicastat produced dose-dependent increases in DA/NE
ratios in the artery (mesenteric or renal), left ventricle and cerebral cortex in SHRs and
dogs.
[0153] At the highest dose tested (100 mg/kg in SHRs and 5 mg/kg in dogs) the maximal
increases in DA/NE ratio were 14, 11 and 3.2 fold (in SHRs) and 95, 151 and 80 fold (in
dogs) in the artery, left ventricle and cerebral cortex, respectively.    When tested at 30
mg/kg in SHRs, SKF-102698 (1) increased the DA/NE ratio by 5.5-fold, 3.5-fold and 2.7
fold, whereas nepicastat, at the same dose, increased the ratio by 8.3, 7.5 and 1.5 fold in
the mesenteric artery, left ventricle and cerebral cortex, respectively. Compound B at 30
mg/kg in SHRs, produced only 2.6, 3.5 and 1.1 fold increases in the DA/NE ratio in the
mesenteric artery, left ventricle and cerebral cortex, respectively. These data suggest that
nepicastat produces the expected biochemical effects in both SHRs and dogs but is more
potent in the latter species. Furthermore, nepicastat is more potent than its Compound B
and SKF-102698 (1) in SHRs.
[0154] The chronic effects of nepicastat (14.5 day treatment) on the plasma DA/NE ratio
were investigated in normal dogs. Animals were randomized to receive, orally, either
placebo (empty capsule) or nepicastat ( 2 mg/kg, b.i.d) for 14.5 days.          Daily blood
samples were drawn, 6 h after the first dose, for the measurement of plasma
concentrations of DA and NE. The samples were collected in tubes containing heparin
and glutathione, centrifuged at -4 'C and stored at -70 'C until analysis.
                                          55

[0155] Oral administration of nepicastat (2 mg/kg; b.i.d) produced a significant increase
in the DA/NE ratio that attained its peak effect at approximately 6-7 days, then plateaued
to a new steady-state between 7-14 days.
[0156] The in vivo hemodynamic activity of nepicastat was further assessed in conscious,
restrained SHRs, a model having high sympathetic drive to cardiovascular tissues.
Hemodynamic study in SHRs. Male SHRs (15 - 16 week old) were used in the study.
The animals were lightly anesthetized with ether and the left femoral artery and vein were
catheterized for measurement of blood pressure and drug administration, respectively.
The animals were placed in restrainers and allowed to recover for 30 - 40 min. After
obtaining baseline measurements, the animals were treated, orally, with either vehicle or
the appropriate dose of nepicastat and hemodynamic parameters were continuously
recorded for 4 h. The animals were then anesthetized with pentobarbital, placed on a
heating pad (37 C) and ventilated with a Harvard rodent ventilator. After administration
of atropine (1 mg/kg, iv) and tubocurarine (1 mg/kg, iv), the animals were pithed through
the orbit of the eye with a stainless steel rod. The pithing rod was stimulated electrically
with 1 ms pulses of 80V at different frequencies (0.15, 0.45, 1.5, 5, 15 Hz) to obtain
frequency -pressor response curves.
[0157] Oral dosing of nepicastat resulted in a dose-dependent antihypertensive effect.
The animals were placed in restrainers and allowed to recover for 30 - 40 minutes. After
obtaining baseline measurements, the animals were treated, orally, with either vehicle or
the appropriate dose of nepicastat and hemodynamic parameters were continuously
recorded for 4 h. Nepicastat produced significant (p < 0.05) lowering of mean arterial
pressure at all doses and time points, except at 0.3 mg/kg (180, 210 and 240 min) and 1
mg/kg (30, 210 and 240 min).
[0158] A maximal decrease in mean blood pressure of 53 ± 4 mmHg (33% reduction
relative to vehicle control) was observed at the 10 mg/kg dose. The response was slow in
onset, reaching its plateau in 3-4 h. The precise reason for the loss of anti-hypertensive
efficacy at the highest dose (30 mg/kg) is unclear at present.           Heart rate was not
significantly affected except for a slight yet significant decrease at 10 and 30 mg/kg, (9.8
and 10.5 %, respectively). Following this study, the rats were pithed and the effects of
nepicastat on the pressor response to pre-ganglionic nerve stimulation (PNS) of the spinal
cord were evaluated 5 h after dosing. The frequency-pressor response curve was shifted
                                          56

significantly (p< 0.05) to the right in a dose-dependent manner (maximum shift of ~ 5
fold in the frequency-response curve).         The heart rate response to PNS was not
significantly affected. These data suggest that nepicastat inhibits the sympathetic drive to
the vasculature and is the probable mechanism for its anti-hypertensive effect in SHRs.
[0159] Since the heterocyclic portion of nepicastat is structurally similar to methimazole,
a known potent suppressor of mammalian thyroid function, the effects of nepicastat on
thyroid function were evaluated at doses of 2.0 and 6.2 mg/kg, po, b.i.d in iodine
deficient Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 9-12) for 10 days. Methimazole (1 mg/kg, po, b.i.d.),
used as a positive control, caused a significant reduction in serum levels of T3 (day 3, 31
%, p < 0.05; days 7 and 9, 42 % and 44 %, p < 0.01) and T4 (days 3 and 7, 46 % and 58
%, p < 0.01) 4 h post-dose, whereas nepicastat showed no significant effects throughout
the study (days 3, 7 and 9). Both doses of nepicastat significantly raised the DA/NE ratio
in the mesenteric artery (p < 0.01 relative to vehicle controls) but not in the cortex 4 h
after the final dose on day 10.
[0160] The findings of this study suggest that nepicastat is a potent, selective and orally
active inhibitor of DBH. The compound is also devoid of significant behavioral effects in
animal models and these findings will be the subject of a future publication.            As
compound nepicastat effectively modulates the sympathetic drive to cardiovascular
tissues, it has been tested for the treatment of CHF.
Example 7
[0161] Concentrations of dopamine and norepinephrine were determined in 942 samples
of plasma collected from congestive heart failure (CHF) patients. The objectives of the
study were:
[0162] 1. to evaluate the effects of various doses of nepicastat on transmyocardial
(arterial-coronary sinus) and coronary sinus catecholamine levels after four weeks, and to
evaluate the safety and tolerability of nepicastat over 12 weeks.
[0163] 2. to evaluate the effects of nepicastat on changes from baseline in:
[0164]       a)     Plasma (venous) catecholamine levels after four weeks and 12 weeks
                                           57

[01651      b)      Quality of life (QoL), CHF symptoms, Global Assessments, and
NYHA class after four weeks and 12 weeks
[0166]      c)      Hemodynamic parameters, including cardiac output, systemic vascular
resistance, MVO 2 , pulmonary artery pressures, and pulmonary artery wedge pressure
after four weeks
[01671      d)      Hospitalizations and changes in medication dosages for the treatment
of CHF over 12 weeks
[0168]      e)      Blood pressure and heart rate at four and 12 weeks
[0169]      f)      Six-Minute Walk Test after four weeks and 12 weeks
[0170]      g)      Left ventricular ejection fraction, left ventricular end systolic, and left
ventricular end diastolic volumes at 12 weeks.
[0171] Samples of blood were collected from patients from a peripheral vein, whilst they
were supine, at 2 hours post-dose during weeks 4 and 12. Further samples from supine
patients were collected on day 0 (i.e. the day prior to the start of dosing) at a time
corresponding to 2 hours post-dose. In addition, a group of patients underwent right heart
and coronary sinus catheterization during week 4 at 2 hours post-dose and on day 0 (i.e.
the day prior to the start of dosing) at a time corresponding to 2 hours post-dose.
Triplicate samples of blood were collected from the arterial vein and coronary sinus of
these patients.
[0172] Concentrations of the free base of dopamine and norepinephrine were determined
by a radioenzymatic method. The method involves the incubation of the plasma samples
with catechol-O-methyl transferase and tritiated S-adenosyl methionine. On completion
of the incubation, the O-methylated catecholamines are extracted from the plasma by
liquid/liquid extraction and then separated by thin layer chromatography. The relevant
bands for each catecholamine are marked and then scraped into scintillation vials for
counting. The quantitation limit of the method is 1 pg of dopamine or norepinephrine per
mL of plasma. The linear range is I to 333000 pg of dopamine or norepinephrine per mL
of plasma using aliquots of 0.045 mL to 1 mL.
                                          58

[0173] A pooled human plasma sample was used as the Quality Control sample (QC) and
was analyzed in singlicate each day during routine use of the method to monitor the
performance of the method.
Example 8
[0174] Preclinical in vitro and in vivo pharmacology studies were conducted with
nepicastat.   The in vitro studies assessed the ability of the compound to inhibit DBH
activity, and its binding affinity at selected receptors. The in vivo studies are subdivided
into four categories:       1) biochemical effects (i.e. the ability to decrease tissue
norepinephrine levels and increase dopamine levels), 2) effects on thyroid function,
3) cardiovascular effects, and 4) behavioral effects.
[0175] Nepicastat was a potent inhibitor of both bovine and human DBH. The IC5 0 for
nepicastat on human DBH was 9 nM (CL 6960), significantly lower than that for the
DBH inhibitor SKF-102698 (85 nM). The S enantiomer nepicastat was more potent than
the R enantiomer (18 nM), denoted as Compound B.
[0176] The binding affinity for nepicastat was screened at selected receptors. Nepicastat
showed a binding affinity of less than 5.0 for M1, D1 and D2, and 5HTIA,       2A and 2 c. The
N-acetyl metabolite of nepicastat in rats and monkeys, showed a similar lack of binding
affinity for these receptors. Thus nepicastat and its primary metabolite were not potent
inhibitors for the receptors listed above.
[0177] The aortic contractile response in vitro to phenylephrine is impaired in
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) relative to normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats.
Daily treatment with nepicastat (10 mg/kg, p.o.) in SHRs for 21 days restored
phenylephrine responsiveness to values comparable to the Wistar-Kyoto rats.
[0178] Overall, nepicastat was an effective inhibitor of DBH in rats and dogs. Oral or
intravenous administration resulted in a significant (p<0.05) decrease in tissue
norepinephrine, an increase in dopamine, and an increase in the dopamine/norepinephrine
levels in the heart, mesenteric or renal artery, and the cerebral cortex in both species.
[0179] In studies with male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), nepicastat
significantly     decreased    norepinephrine     and     increased    dopamine     and     the
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the mesenteric artery from 0.5 to 4 hours following oral
                                           59

or i.v. administration at 6.2 mg/kg.      Significant changes in these parameters were also
observed in the left ventricle of male Sprague-Dawley rats 6 hours after the second of two
i.v. injections (15 mg/kg) given 12 hours apart.         The 24 hour time course of tissue
catecholamines was studied in male SHRs following oral administration of either 10 or 30
mg/kg, respectively. The increase in the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio was significant at
1 hour, and was long lasting (12 hours at 10 mg/kg, mesenteric artery, and 24 hours at 30
mg/kg, left ventricle).       Significant   changes in mesenteric artery dopamine         and
norepinephrine levels were observed following 10 days of dosing to male Sprague
Dawley rats at 2.0 and 6.2 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d., with no significant effects observed in the
cerebral cortex.    SHRs dosed at 1 or 10 mg/kg/d p.o. for either 7 or 25 days had
significant increases in dopamine and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the
mesenteric artery and cerebral cortex. Taken together, nepicastat resulted in a significant
decrease     in    norepinephrine      and    an    elevation    in    dopamine     and   the
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the mesenteric artery in rats with either acute or chronic
(up to 25 days) dosing.
[0180] The effects of nepicastat in male SHRs and Sprague-Dawley rats were found to be
dose responsive when assessed 6 hours following a single oral dose at 0.3, 1, 3, 10, 30,
and 100 mg/kg. In SHRs there were significant changes in the dopamine/norepinephrine
ratio in the mesenteric artery at doses of 0.3 mg/kg, in the left ventricle at 3.0 mg/kg, and
in the cerebral cortex at 10 mg/kg.         In Sprague-Dawley rats there were significant
increases in the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the mesenteric artery at 3.0 mg/kg, in
the left ventricle at 1.0 mg/kg, and in the cerebral cortex only at 100 mg/kg. In a second
dose-response study in SHRs, three doses were administered 12 hours apart at either 3.0,
10, 30, or 100 mg/kg, and tissue was harvested six hours after the third dose. Nepicastat
caused a significant dose dependent decrease in norepinephrine (10 mg/kg) and increase
in dopamine (3.0 mg/kg) and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio (3.0 mg/kg) in the left
ventricle   and mesenteric     artery.     The effects    of nepicastat   on dopamine     and
norepinephrine concentrations, and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the cerebral
cortex were significant only at 30 and 100 mg/kg.           Similar significant dose-response
effects in the left ventricle were seen in female Wistar rats dosed with nepicastat for 7
days via the drinking water (0.3, 0.6, and 1.0 mg/ml). In conclusion, nepicastat was less
potent in inhibiting DBH in the cerebral cortex of rats (60-100 mg/kg/d) than in the left
ventricle and mesenteric artery (1-6 mg/kg/d).
                                           60

[0181] Nepicastat (the S enantiomer) was significantly more potent then the R
enantiomer in the left ventricle and mesenteric artery in SHRs after three doses given 12
hours apart (30 mg/kg p.o.).     nepicastat was significantly more potent than the DBH
inhibitor SKF-102698 in decreasing norepinephrine and increasing dopamine and the
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the left ventricle and mesenteric artery in SHRs after a
single dose, or three doses at 30 mg/kg. The potency relationships in the left ventricle
and mesenteric artery resulting from these in vivo studies strongly parallel those obtained
from in vitro studies using purified DBH (see above).           However, nepicastat had
significantly less effects than SKF-102698 in decreasing norepinephrine levels and
increasing dopamine levels in the cerebral cortex. Norepinephrine has been shown to
stimulate the release of renin and increase plasma renin activity.     It was therefore of
interest to assess whether decreasing norepinephrine levels with nepicastat would result in
a decrease in plasma renin activity. However, nepicastat (30 and 100 mg/kg/d p.o. for 5
days) did not alter plasma renin activity in male SHRs. Thus, nepicastat, when given at
doses that lower tissue norepinephrine levels, does not alter plasma renin activity in
SHRs.
[0182] Nepicastat caused a significant decrease in norepinephrine levels and an increase
in the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio, but did not alter dopamine levels, in the mesenteric
artery from male beagle dogs 5 hours after administration of 30 mg/kg intraduodenally.
When nepicastat was given to male beagle dogs for 4.5 days (5, 15, and 30 mg/kg b.i.d.,
or 10, 30, and 60 mg/kg/d) there was a significant decrease in norepinephrine, and an
increase in dopamine and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the renal artery, renal
cortex, and renal medulla, with a plateau in response beginning at 10 mg/kg/d and
extending through 60 mg/kg/d. Similar results were observed in the left ventricle, except
that there was no significant increase in dopamine. In the cerebral cortex, norepinephrine
significantly    decreased   at   30   and    60  mg/kg/d,    and    dopamine     and    the
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio significantly increased at all doses.         In conclusion,
nepicastat was a potent, orally active inhibitor of DBH in dogs at doses of at least 10
mg/kg/d.
[0183] Nepicastat has structural similarities to methimazole, a potent inhibitor of thyroid
peroxidase in vivo. nepicastat at doses of 4 or 12.4 mg/kg/d, p.o. had no effect on serum
levels of triiodothyramine or thyroxine in male Sprague-Dawley rats fed a low iodine diet
and dosed for 10 days, while methimazole (2 mg/kg/d) significantly reduced serum levels
                                          61

of triiodothyramine or thyroxine.       Thus, nepicastat, unlike methimazole, did not affect
serum levels of triiodothyramine or thyroxine.
[0184] Nepicastat induced a significant antihypertensive effect for up to 4 hours in
conscious, restrained SHRs (1.0-30 mg/kg, p.o.), and significantly reduced heart rate (10
and 30 mg/kg). The antihypertensive effects of nepicastat in conscious, restrained SHRs
(10 mg/kg, p.o.) were not attenuated by pretreatment with the dopamine receptor (DA-1)
antagonist SCH-23390. nepicastat (10 mg/kg) also reduced blood pressure 4 hours after
dosing in conscious, restrained normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats; however, the decrease in
pressure was less (-13 mmHg) than with SHRs (-46 mmHg). To summarize together,
nepicastat causes a decrease in blood pressure in both SHRs and normotensive rats,
though the antihypertensive effect is more pronounced in SHRs. The antihypertensive
effects in SHRs do not appear to be mediated via DA-1 receptors.
[0185] Nepicastat     also   significantly  attenuated   the hypertensive  and tachycardic
responses to preganglionic nerve stimulation in pithed SHRs 5 hours after dosing (3
mg/kg p.o.).      Thus, nepicastat reduces the rise in blood pressure in response to
sympathetic nerve stimulation.
[0186] Acute intravenous treatment of anesthetized SHRs with nepicastat (3.0 mg/kg,
i.v.) decreased mean arterial pressure over a 3 hour period, but did not lower renal blood
flow or alter urine production or urinary excretion of sodium or potassium.              The
calculated renal vascular resistance was decreased following dosing.        An attempt was
made using the DA-1 antagonist SCH-23390 to assess if the renal vasodilator effects of
nepicastat were mediated by DA-1 receptors.          However this compound reduced blood
pressure when given alone, thus making the results uninterpretable.       Overall, nepicastat
did not impair renal function in anesthetized SHRs, and did not decrease renal blood flow
despite causing a decrease in arterial blood pressure.
[0187] Daily treatment with nepicastat (1 and 10 mg/kg, p.o.) in SHRs for 21 days did not
alter heart rate, or systolic blood pressure as measured by the tail cuff method. However,
nepicastat(10 mg/kg, p.o.) induced a significant antihypertensive effect when the rats
were restrained and their blood pressure measured directly via an arterial cannulae.
[0188] Nepicastat significantly lowered blood pressure in SHRs instrumented with radio
telemetry blood pressure transducers at doses of 30 and 100 mg/kg/d for 30 days, but
                                           62

produced no significant effects were observed at 3 and 10 mg/kg/d. The effect at 30 and
100 mg/kg/d persisted over a 24-hour period after a single dose, and there was no loss of
effect over 30 days. Heart rate was not increased, and motor activity was unaffected. A
combination of a dose of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril (1 mg/kg,
p.o.) that failed to lower blood pressure with nepicastat (30 mg/kg) caused a potentiation
of the antihypertensive effects of nepicastat over 30 days of dosing, and resulted in a
significant reduction in left ventricular mass. A reduction in left ventricular mass did not
occur with enalapril alone. Thus, 30 days of treatment of SHRs with nepicastat at 30 and
100 mg/kg/d resulted in a decrease in blood pressure and, when combined with enalapril,
additional blood pressure decreases along with a reduction in left ventricular mass.
[0189] The blood pressure lowering effect of nepicastat in normotensive Wistar rats
instrumented with radio-telemetry blood pressure transducers was less than the effect
observer in SHRs at doses of 30 and 100 mg/kg/d for 7 days. At 30 mg/kg/d the peak
decrease in blood pressure was -10 mmHg, compared to -20 in SHRs. At 100 mg/kg/d
the peak decrease in blood pressure was -17 mmHg, compared to -42 in SHRs. Thus,
nepicastat had a greater blood pressure lowering effect in SHRs than in normotensive rats.
[0190] Studies in normal anesthetized dogs showed no cardiovascular effects of
nepicastat following acute intravenous dosing (1-10 mg/kg i.v.) with no changes in
arterial blood pressure, left ventricular pressures (including peak dp/dt), heart rate, cardiac
output or renal blood flow for up to five hours after dosing. A similar lack of effect was
observed in chronically instrumented, conscious dogs studied for 12 hours after a single
dose (3-30 mg/kg i.v.).
[0191] Nepicastat (30 mg/kg intraduodenally) did not significantly inhibit either the
decrease in renal blood flow in response to direct renal nerve stimulation, or the increase
in arterial blood pressure in response to carotid artery occlusion up to 5 hours after dosing
in anesthetized male beagle dogs. However, nepicastat caused a significant decrease in
norepinephrine levels and an increase in the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio, but not
dopamine levels, in the mesenteric artery 5 hours after dosing. Thus, although tissue
norepinephrine levels were significantly reduced, there was no significant inhibition of
sympathetically-evoked functional responses.
                                           63

[0192] When nepicastat was given to male beagle dogs for 4.5 days at 10 mg/kg/d there
was no statistically significant decrease in the degree of blood pressure and heart rate
increases in response to carotid artery occlusion in anesthetized animals.       Nepicastat
treatment significantly reduced the increase in heart rate in response to an i.v. tyramine
challenge, but produced only slight and non-significant inhibition of blood pressure
increases. Thus, chronic dosing with nepicastat at a dose that has been shown to result in
a maximal decrease in tissue norepinephrine levels, does not have a major inhibitory
effect on sympathetically-evoked functional responses.
[0193] Nepicastat caused no significant effects on gross motor behavior in mice
following acute dosing at 1.0-30 mg/kg, p.o., and it did not effect locomotor activity in
mice (10-100 mg/kg i.p.). Acute administration to rats did not effect locomotor activity
or acoustic startle reactivity (3-100 mg/kg i.p.).
[0194] No behavioral effects were observed in rats following 10 days of dosing at 10, 30,
and 100 mg/kg/d, p.o..       Rectal temperature was also unaffected.   Motor activity and
auditory startle reflex were significantly reduced by treatment with the DBH inhibitor
SKF-102698 (100 mg/kg/d, p.o.), and by the centrally acting a-adrenergic agonist
clonidine (20 mg/kg, b.i.d., p.o.). Motor activity was also unaffected over 30 days of
dosing in SHRs (3-100 mg/kg/d, p.o.). Thus, nepicastat did not cause detectable changes
in central nervous system mediated behavioral effects in rats.
[0195] Nepicastat is a potent competitive inhibitor of human DBH in vitro, and in rats
and dogs in vivo. In rats, oral treatment with nepicastat resulted in significant evidence
for DBH inhibition in the heart and mesenteric artery at a dose 6 mg/kg/d. In contrast to
another DBH inhibitor, SKF-102698, nepicastat showed some selectivity to the left
ventricle and mesenteric artery relative to the cerebral cortex. No behavioral effects were
observed with nepicastat in rats. In dogs, a plateau effect for DBH inhibition occurred at
10 mg/kg/d in the heart, renal artery and kidney. Nepicastat significantly reduced the
hypertensive response to sympathetic nerve stimulation in rats (3 mg/kg p.o.), and it
significantly lowered blood pressure throughout the day when dosed once daily (30
mg/kg/d p.o.) for 30 days in SHRs. In conclusion, nepicastat is a potent DBH inhibitor
that modulates the action of the sympathetic nervous system.
                                          64

Example 9
[0196] The studies described here were designed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of
higher oral doses of nepicastat, to compare the pharmacokinetics in male and female rats,
and to determine penetration of nepicastat into the CNS by quantitating levels of
nepicastat in brain.
[0197] Male rats (Crl: CD BR Vaf+) weighing 180 - 220 g were fasted overnight before
dosing and until 4 hr after dosing. Doses were formulated in water containing 2% 1
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (50 centipoises viscosity), 1% benzyl alcohol, and 0.6%
Tween 80 (all obtained from Sigma Chemical Company). Concentration of drug in the
dose solutions was 5, 15, and 50 mg/ml for the 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg doses, respectively,
and was verified by liquid chromatography (LC). The 5 mg/ml dose was a clear solution
and the higher concentrations were a translucent suspension. Dose volumes were 2.0
ml/kg. At various times after dosing, samples of blood were obtained by cardiac puncture
with heparinized syringes, and plasma was prepared by centrifugation.         Brains of rats
were surgically excised, and all samples were frozen at -20'C until analysis.
[0198] Aliquots of plasma (0.05 or 0.5 ml) were mixed with internal standard (50 tl of
methanol containing 5 ptg/ml a monofluoro analog of nepicastat, and 5 mg/ml
dithiothreitol). Samples were mixed with 200 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, (0.5
ml) and extracted with 3 ml of ethyl acetate/hexane (1/1, v/v).        The organic phase
containing analytes was back extracted with 250 tl of 250 mM acetic acid and 100 [tl
aliquots of the aqueous phase were assayed by LC.        The LC system used a Keystone
Hypersil BDS 15 cm Cs column at ambient temperature. Mobile phase A was 12.5 mM
potassium phosphate, pH 3.0, with 5 mM dodecanesulfonic acid and mobile phase B was
acetonitrile. Solvent composition was 40% B and was pumped at a flow rate of 1 ml/min.
Detection was by UV absorption at 261 nm. Concentrations of analytes were determined
from a standard curve generated from the analysis of plasma from untreated rats fortified
with known concentrations of analyte.     Plasma concentration data are expressed as [ig
(free base) per ml.
[0199] Brains were rinsed briefly with saline, blotted on a paper towel, then weighed (1.5
- 2.0 g). Internal standard was added (50 tl of methanol containing 20 ptg/ml a monofluro
analog of nepicastat), and brains were homogenized in 5 ml of 200 mM sodium
                                        65

phosphate, pH 7.0, containing 0.5 mg/ml dithiothreitol. Aliquots of homogenate (2 ml)
were extracted with 10 ml of ethyl acetate / hexane (1/1, v/v). The organic phase was
gently back extracted with 150 ptl of 250 mM acetic acid.
[0200] Following addition of 100        1dof methanol to the aqueous phase (to disperse any
emulsion), 100 tl aliquots were assayed by LC as described for plasma. Level in brain
are expressed as ptg (free base) per g of brain tissue.
[0201] Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated from mean plasma concentrations.
Plasma half-life (TI/ 2 ) was calculated as 0.693/3, where 0 is the elimination rate constant
determined by linear regression of the log plasma concentration vs. time data within the
terminal linear portion of the data. Areas under the plasma concentration vs. time curve
(AUC) from zero to the time of the last quantifiable plasma concentrations were
calculated by the trapezoidal rule. AUC from zero to infinity (AUCtotai ) was calculated
as:
[0202] AUCtotai   =  AUC (0-Clast) + Ciast/P where Ciast is the last quantifiable plasma
concentration.
[0203] Concentrations of nepicastat in plasma of male rats given 10, 30, or 100 mg/kg
single oral doses were obtained. Concentrations of nepicastat in plasma increased with
increasing dose, and the relationship between AUCtotai and dose was linear.              The
elimination half-life appeared to increase slightly at higher doses (1.70, 2.09, and 3.88 hr
following the 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg oral doses to male rats, respectively). Following a
30 mg/kg oral dose of nepicastat to female rats, the plasma AUCtotai of nepicastat was
77% higher in female rats than in male rats given an equivalent dose of nepicastat.
Levels of nepicastat in brain (expressed as [tg/g) were initially lower than those in plasma
(expressed as ptg/ml). From 2 hr following dosing onward, however, concentrations of
nepicastat in brain exceeded those in plasma.
[0204] Plasma levels of nepicastat in male rats increased linearly with increasing doses
between 10 and 100 mg/kg, based on values of AUCtotai.
[0205] Plasma levels of nepicastat were higher in female rats than in male rats following
a 30 mg/kg oral dose.
                                            66

[0206] Following administration of a 10 mg/kg oral dose of nepicastat to male rats, levels
of nepicastat in brain were initially lower than those in plasma, but from 2 hr onward,
levels of nepicastat in brain were greater than in plasma.
Example 10
[0207] The purpose of this study was to determine the 24 hours time course of the effects
of nepicastat (10 mg/kg) on dopamine and norepinephrine levels in the mesenteric artery
following a single oral dose in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Catecholamine levels
were measured at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, and 24 hours after a single oral administration of
either nepicastat (10 mg/kg) or vehicle (dH 20; 10 ml/kg).
[0208] Sixteen-17 week old, male spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHRs) weighing 300
400 grams were allowed food and water ad libitum.             Animals were weighed and
randomly assigned, the afternoon before the study, to one of the following treatment
groups (n=9 per group): a single oral administration of nepicastat at 10 mg/kg or a single
oral administration of vehicle (10 ml/kg) to be sacrificed at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, or 24
hours.
[0209] Nepicastat was synthesized as the hydrochloride salt and nepicastat was dissolved
in vehicle (dH 2O) to yield an oral dose that could be administered in repeated volumes of
10 ml/kg.    All doses of nepicastat were administered as free base equivalents and
prepared the morning of administration.
[0210] Animals were dosed every minute the morning of sacrifice. At 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16
and 24 hours following administration, 9 treated animals and 9 vehicle animals were
anesthetized with halothane, decapitated, and the left ventricle and mesenteric artery were
rapidly harvested and weighed.       The mesenteric artery was put in 0.5 ml of 0.4M
perchloric acid in a centrifuge tube and the left ventricle put into an empty cryotube.
Both tissues were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -70' C. Mesenteric
artery catecholamine levels were determined using HPLC with electrochemical detection.
At the time of decapitation, plasma samples were taken by draining blood from the
carcass into a tube containing heparin, and centrifuging at 4'C.
[0211] Each treatment group was compared to vehicle at each time point. A two way
analysis of variance (ANOVA) with effects TRT, HARVEST and their interaction was
                                          67

performed. A one way ANOVA with factor TRT was performed for each harvest time.
Pairwise analyses between treated and vehicle animals, at each time point, were carried
out using Fisher's LSD strategy to control the experiment-wise error rate. Norepinephrine
values were significantly (p<0.05) lower than vehicle only at the 4 hr time point. Levels
were marginally (0.05<p<0.1) lower at the 6 hour time point. Dopamine levels were
significantly (p<0.05) higher than those of vehicle at the 2 and 6 hr harvest times. The
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio was significantly (p<0.05) greater than those of vehicle
treated animals at the 1, 2, 4, 6 and 12 hour time points.
[0212] In general, nepicastat had few statistically significant effects on mesenteric artery
norepinephrine or dopamine levels following a single oral administration at 10 mg/kg in
spontaneously hypertensive rats at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16 or 24 hours following dosing.
However, a consistent increase in the dopamine/norepinephrine ratios were observed
across most of the first 12 hours of treatment. At the 16 and 24 harvest time no changes
in any of the three parameters were observed.
Example 11
[0213] The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of intravenous
administration of nepicastat (hereafter referred to as nepicastat) on the levels of dopamine
and norepinephrine in the left ventricle in Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals received two
intravenous (iv) administrations, 12 hours apart, of either vehicle (75% propylene glycol
+ 25% DMSO; 1.0 ml/kg) or 15 mg/kg of nepicastat.                Tissue norepinephrine and
dopamine levels were measured six hours after the last compound administration.
[0214] Sixteen to 17 week old male Sprague-Dawley rats, weighing 300-400 grams, were
allowed food and water ad libitum. Animals were weighed and randomly assigned, the
afternoon before the study, to one of the following treatment groups (n=10 per group):
vehicle (1.0 ml/kg) or nepicastat at 15 mg/kg.
[0215] Nepicastat     was synthesized and was dissolved in the appropriate amount of
vehicle (75% propylene glycol + 25% DMSO) to obtain a dosing volume of 1.0 ml/kg.
Nepicastat was administered as the free base equivalent and prepared the afternoon prior
to the first administration.
                                          68

[0216] Each rat was dosed iv in the tail vein the afternoon before harvest. The dosing
was repeated 12 hours later the following morning.              Six hours after the final
administration rats were anesthetized with halothane, decapitated, and the left ventricle
was rapidly harvested and weighed.       The ventricle was placed in 1.0 ml iced 0.4 M
perchloric acid. Tissues were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -70'C.
Tissue dopamine and norepinephrine concentrations were assayed by high performance
liquid chromatography using electrochemical detection.
[0217] A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with a main effect for treatment was
performed for norepinephrine. A Kruskal-Wallis was performed for dopamine and their
ratio primarily due to heterogeneous variances among treatment groups.         Subsequent
pairwise comparisons between nepicastat treated rats and vehicle were performed using
Fisher's LSD test. A Bonferroni adjustment was performed on all p-values to ensure an
overall experiment-wise type 1 error rate of 5%.
[0218] Nepicastat    administered    at   15   mg/kg   significantly  (p<0.01)  decreased
norepinephrine levels by 51%, and significantly (p<0.01) increased dopamine levels by
472%, and significantly (p<0.01) increased the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio by 1117%,
compared to vehicle treated animals.
[0219] In conclusion, intravenous administration of nepicastat resulted in significant
inhibition of DBH in the left ventricle of Sprague-Dawley rats.
Example 12
[0220] This study assessed the effectiveness of nepicastat in altering the levels of
dopamine and norepinephrine in the cortex, left ventricle, and mesenteric artery of male
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Animals were given three doses, 12 hours apart
at 3, 10, 30 or 100 mg/kg p.o..
[0221] This study also compared the efficacy of the S enantiomer (nepicastat) with the R
enantiomer (Compound B) following three doses (30 mg/kg). This study also compared
the effects of nepicastat with SKF-102698, a DBH inhibitor previously shown to be orally
active in rats.
[0222] Compounds were prepared          and administered as the free base equivalent.
Nepicastat was dissolved in the appropriate amount of vehicle (dH 20 for nepicastat and
                                         69

PEG 400:dH 20, 50:50 vol:vol for SKF-102698.         Doses of 3, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg of
nepicastat, and 30 mg/kg SKF-102698 were prepared in 10.0 ml/kg dosing volumes.
[0223] Fifteen to sixteen week old male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) (Charles
River Labs) were allowed food and water ad libitum.           Animals were weighed and
randomly assigned to one of the following treatment groups: 1) distilled water vehicle
(dH 2 O), or nepicastat at 3, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg, 2) Compound B at 30 mg/kg in
distilled water, or 3) PEG 400:dH 2 0 vehicle or SKF-102698 at 30 mg/kg. Each rat was
dosed orally (p.o., using a gavage needle) three times 12 hours apart, beginning in the
morning.     At six hours after the third dose rats were anesthetized with halothane,
decapitated, and the cortex, mesenteric artery, and left ventricle were rapidly harvested,
weighed, placed in iced 0.4 M perchioric acid, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at
70'C.     Tissue dopamine and norepinephrine concentrations were assayed by high
performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection.
[0224] Four series of statistical analyses were performed. The first series compared the
rats treated with various doses of nepicastat, and Compound B at 30 mg/kg to the vehicle
control animals. A nonparametric one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with factor
Dose and blocking factor Day was performed for each tissue and strain separately.
Overall results are reported. Pairwise analysis between treated and controls at each dose
were carried out using Dunnett's test to control the experiment-wise error rate.       The
second statistical test compared SKF-102698 to the PEG-dH20 vehicle treated group
using a nonparametric t-test.      The third statistical test compared Compound B to
nepicastat at doses of 30 mg/kg using a nonparametric t-test. A fourth statistical analysis
compared nepicastat to SKF-102698 at doses of 30 mg/kg. Since two different vehicles
were used, a linear contrast was developed which calculates the difference of differences
as follows:
[0225] Change    = (30 mg/kg - Vehicle)NEPICASTAT  - (30 mg/kg - Vehicle)SKF-102698
[0226] This new variable was tested for equality to zero by the SAS procedure General
Linear Models.
[0227] The dopamine concentration in the cerebral cortex was significantly (p<0.05)
greater, the norepinephrine concentration was significantly (p<0.05) lower), and the
                                          70

dopamine/norepinephrine ratios significantly (p<0.05) greater than vehicle at doses of 30
and 100 mg/kg of nepicastat.
[0228] Dopamine concentration in the left ventricle was significantly (p<0.0 5 ) greater
than vehicle at doses of 3, 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg. Norepinephrine concentration was
significantly (p<0.0 5 ) lower than vehicle at doses of 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg.             The
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in the left ventricle was significantly (p<0.0 5 ) greater than
vehicle at doses of 3, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg of nepicastat.
[0229] Dopamine concentration in the mesenteric artery of SHRs was significantly
(p<0.05) greater than vehicle at doses of 3, 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg.         Norepinephrine
concentration was not significantly less (p>0.05) than vehicle at 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg.
The dopamine/norepinephrine ratios in the mesenteric artery were significantly (p<0.05)
greater than vehicle at all doses of nepicastat.
[0230] In the cerebral cortex, relative to treatment with vehicle, Compound B resulted in
significant increase in both dopamine and norepinephrine (p<0.01), and had no effect on
the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio. Norepinephrine levels were significantly lower with
nepicastat compared to Compound B (p<0.01).
[0231] In the left ventricle, relative to treatment with vehicle, Compound B resulted in a
significant increase in dopamine and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio (p<0.01), but did
not significantly lower norepinephrine levels. Nepicastat was significantly more effective
(p<0.01) than Compound B at lowering norepinephrine levels, and increasing dopamine
and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio.
[0232] In the mesenteric artery, relative to treatment with vehicle, Compound B resulted
in a significant increase in dopamine and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio (p<0.01), but
did not significantly lower norepinephrine levels.       Nepicastat was significantly more
effective (p<0.01) than Compound B at lowering norepinephrine levels, and increasing
dopamine and the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio.
[0233] Comparing nepicastat with SKF-102698 at 30 mg/kg in the cerebral cortex,
dopamine concentration in the cortex was significantly greater (p<0.01) than vehicle for
SKF-102698 at a dose of 30 mg/kg. The increase above vehicle was greater for SKF
102698 than for nepicastat (p<0.01).        Norepinephrine concentration was significantly
                                           71

lower than vehicle for SKF-102698, and the decrease was greater for SKF-102698 than
for nepicastat (p<0.01).        The dopamine/norepinephrine ratios in the cortex were
significantly (p<0.01) greater than vehicle for SKF-102698, and the increase above
vehicle was greater for SKF-102698 than for nepicastat (p<0.01).
[0234] The dopamine concentration in the left ventricle was significantly greater (p<0.01)
than vehicle for SK-F 102698, and the increase above vehicle was greater for nepicastat
than for SKF-102698 (p<0.01).         Norepinephrine concentration was not different from
vehicle with SKF-102698 treatment, however treatment with nepicastat significantly
lowered norepinephrine relative to vehicle more than SKF-102698 (p<0.01).               The
dopamine/norepinephrine ratios in the left ventricle were significantly (p<0.05) greater
than vehicle for SKF-102698, and the increase above vehicle was greater for nepicastat
than for SKF-102698 (p<0.05).
[0235] The dopamine concentration in the mesenteric artery was significantly greater
than vehicle for SKF-102698,           and the increase above vehicle was greater for
NEPICASTAT than for SKF-102698.             Norepinephrine concentration was significantly
lower than vehicle       with    SKF-102698     treatment, and treatment with nepicastat
significantly lowered norepinephrine relative to vehicle more than SKF-102698.          The
dopamine/norepinephrine ratios in the left ventricle were significantly greater than
vehicle than for SKF-102698, and the increase above vehicle was greater for nepicastat
than for SKF-102698.
[0236] In conclusion, the data show that nepicastat is a potent inhibitor of DBH in vivo in
the mesenteric artery, left ventricle, and cerebral cortex of SHRs six hours after the third
of three oral doses administered 12 hours apart. The S enantiomer, nepicastat was more
potent than the R enantiomer (Compound B) in all three tissues at 30 mg/kg.
Furthermore, nepicastat was more effective than SKF-102698 in the mesenteric artery and
left ventricle, but less effective in the cerebral cortex, following three doses at 30 mg/kg
administered over 24 hours.
Example 13
[0237] Nepicastat was prepared and administered as the free base equivalent. Nepicastat
and methimazole were dissolved in vehicle (66.7% propylene glycol:33.3% dH20) to
                                           72

yield dosing solutions of appropriate concentrations         so that all doses could be
administered in a 1.0 ml/kg volume.
[0238] Male Sprague-Dawley rats, weighing 180-200 grams, were fed an iodine deficient
diet (Purina, 5891C, Lot 1478, 0.066 ± 0.042 mg iodine/kg sample) ad libitum 14 days
prior to treatment. Animals were weighed and randomly assigned to one of the following
treatment groups (n=12 per group):       nepicastat at 2.0 mg/kg, nepicastat at 6.2 mg/kg,
Methimazole at 1 mg/kg, or vehicle at 1 ml/kg. Each group of rats was dosed orally in
the evening and the following morning, approximately 12 hours apart, for 10 consecutive
days.
[0239] At four hours after the second dose, on day 10, rats were anesthetized with
halothane, decapitated, and the cortex, striatum, and mesenteric artery were harvested and
weighed. Tissue samples were not harvested from the methimazole groups as they only
served as positive controls for determination of thyroid function. The mesenteric artery,
cortex, and striatum were immediately placed in 0.4 M iced perchloric acid and analyzed
for norepinephrine and dopamine levels the same day using HPLC.
[0240] Orbital blood samples were taken at day -3, 0, 3, 7, and 9 (day 0 was the first day
of dosing).       Serum samples     were     analyzed   for T 3  and  T4   levels  using a
radioimmunoassay.
[0241] To statistically evaluate changes in T3 and T4 levels, a change from baseline was
calculated from the day -3 time point. A non-parametric two-way within subject analysis
of variance (ANOVA) was conducted. Also a one-way ANOVA was performed to detect
if a significant difference from control occurred. Pairwise analyses between controls and
each treatment group were carried out using Fisher's LSD strategy to control the
experiment-wise error rate. For statistical analysis of catecholamine levels, a one-way
ANOVA with factor DOSE was performed.               Pairwise analyses between treated and
controls at each dose were carried out using Fisher's LSD strategy to control the
experiment-wise error rate.
[0242] Norepinephrine levels in the nepicastat treated animals were not significantly
(p>0.05) different in the cortex compared to vehicle control at doses of 2.0 and 6.2
mg/kg. Norepinephrine levels in the mesenteric artery were significantly (p<0.05) lower
at the 2.0 and 6.2 mg/kg dose groups, and norepinephrine levels in the striatum were
                                          73

marginally (p<0.10) lower in both the 2.0 and 6.2 mg/kg dose groups, compared to
vehicle control.
[0243] Dopamine levels in all three tissues were not significantly (p>0.0 5 ) different from
vehicle control at either the 2.0 or 6.2 mg/kg dose group of nepicastat.
[0244] The dopamine/norepinephrine ratio of the cortex and striatum at 2.0 and 6.2
mg/kg nepicastat were not significantly (p>0.05) different from vehicle control, while the
ratio of the mesenteric artery at both 2.0 and 6.2 mg/kg nepicastat were significantly
(p<0.05) higher than vehicle control.
[0245] Neither 2.0 or 6.2 mg/kg nepicastat affected thyroid function by altering free T3 or
total T4 levels in the rat serum. A dose of 1.0 mg/kg of Methimazole, the positive control,
significantly (p<0.0 5 ) lowered T3 levels on all treatment days and T 4 levels at day 3 and
7, compared to vehicle control. T4 levels of the methimazole treated animals were only
marginally (p<O.10) lower on day nine.
[0246] Nepicastat (2.0 or 6.2 mg/kg) did not cause any significant (p>0.05) changes in
dopamine or the norepinephrine levels, or dopamine/norepinephrine ratio when compared
to vehicle. In the striatum, a marginally significant (p<O. 10) decrease in norepinephrine
level was observed in the 6.2 mg/kg dose group, but no other significant changes were
observed.     In the mesenteric artery, both 2.0 and 6.2 mg/kg of nepicastat produced
significantly (p<0.05) lower norepinephrine levels and significantly (p<0.05) higher
dopamine/norepinephrine ratios, compared to vehicle, with no significant changes
observed in dopamine levels.       Thus nepicastat appears to be an effective inhibitor of
dopamine      -hydroxylase in vivo, with greater effect in the mesenteric artery than the
cerebral cortex or striatum following 10 days of dosing in Sprague-Dawley rats.
Example 14
[0247] This study was performed to determine the dopamine and norepinephrine
concentrations in kidney medulla and kidney cortex from dogs dosed with nepicastat.
Adult male beagle dogs were randomly assigned to four groups of 8 dogs per group and
dosed by oral administration with nepicastat. Nepicastat was delivered in doses of 5, 15
and 30 mg/kg placed in single capsules.        Vehicle was an empty capsule.       Each dog
received 2 doses daily, morning and afternoon (8-10 hours apart) for four days. On the
                                          74

fifth day, each dog received a single dose in the morning and the dogs were euthanized
six hours after the last dose. Samples of kidney medulla and kidney cortex were rapidly
harvested, weighed, placed in cold 0.4 M perchloric acid, frozen in liquid nitrogen and
stored at -70' C.
[0248] To quantitate concentrations of norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (D), each
tissue was homogenized by brief sonication in 0.4 M perchloric acid. After sonication,
the homogenates were centrifuged at 13,000 rpm in a microfuge for 30 minutes at 4' C.
An aliquot of each supernatant was removed and spiked with 3,4-dihydroxybenzylamine
(DHBA) as internal standard. The extract from each sample was subjected to HPLC
separation using electrochemical detection. The method has a quantitation limit of 2.0
ng/mL and a linear range of 2.0 ng/mL to 400 ng/mL for each analyte.
[0249] Each analyte determination was normalized to the weight of the tissue sample and
expressed as [tg of analyte per gram of tissue.         The concentrations of dopamine,
norepinephrine and the ratio of dopamine concentration to norepinephrine concentration
(D/NE) were obtained for each dog. In addition, the calculated means and standard
deviations for each analyte and D/NE ratio were provided for each treatment group.
Example 15
[0250] Male Beagle dogs (Marshall farms, North Rose, NY) weighing between 9-16 kg
were used in the study. The animals were allowed water ad libitum and given food once
daily at ~ 10.00 AM. Animals were randomly assigned to one of the following treatment
groups (n    = 8/group): placebo (empty capsule), or nepicastat at 2 mg/kg b.i.d (4
mg/kg/day).    Each animal received 2 doses daily, morning and afternoon (8-10 hours
apart). Daily blood samples (10 ml) were drawn 6 h after the AM dose for measurement
of plasma levels of nepicastat and catecholamines.      The blood was collected in tubes
containing heparin and glutathione and centrifuged at - 4'C within lh of collection. The
plasma was separated and divided into two samples, one for the measurement of plasma
catecholamines and the other for analysis of nepicastat .
[0251] Tissue samples were also taken from the dogs at the end of the study in case it was
deemed necessary to analyze tissue catecholamines at a later point. On day 15, 6 hours
after the AM dose, a final blood sample (10 ml) was taken. Dogs were anesthetized with
sodium pentobarbital (40 mg/kg, iv), placed on a necropsy table and euthanized with a
                                        75

second injection of pentobarbital (80 mg/kg,iv). A rapid bilateral transthoracotomy and
abdominal incision was performed. Biopsies were taken from the renal artery and left
ventricle. The skull was opened to expose the frontal lobe of the cerebral cortex and a
biopsy was taken. Tissue samples were weighed, placed on iced 0.4 M perchloric acid,
frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at - 70'C until analyzed.
[0252] Plasma norepinephrine        (NE), dopamine (DA) and epinephrine (EPI) were
analyzed by HPLC using electrochemical detection. Plasma concentration of nepicastat
was determined by HPLC using electrochemical detection.
[0253] The Box-Cox transformations indicated that the logarithm was an appropriate
variance stabilizing transformation; hence all analyses were performed on the log-values.
The BQL (below quantitation limit) in the DA concentration of dog 1 at day 10 was set to
0; In (0) was set to missing. The analysis was performed using a mixed model (using
PROC MIXED) with the day and treatment categorical variables being fixed and the dog
within treatment being a random factor. For the fixed effects, the interaction between the
day and the treatment was included, since the difference between the drug and placebo
groups varies from day to day.           Contrasts were calculated using the CONTRAST
statement, which correctly takes into account the error terms for each particular contrast.
In particular, the contrasts comparing the treatment group to the drug group uses the dog
mean square for its error term, while the comparisons used to establish steady state are all
within dog comparisons, and require the error mean square.
[0254] The time period of steady state was calculated using the Helmert transformation
(cf. SAS PROC GLM manual).            These transformations compare each treatment mean
with the average of the treatment means of the time points following. The steady state
period is defined to start at the first time point following the maximum time at which the
Helmert contrast is statistically significant. However, since this method can fail to detect
a smoothly changing process, as appears might be the case here, the slope of the analyte
concentration during the steady state period also was calculated. The slope during the
steady state period was calculated for each dog individually, yielding one slope per
animal.   Univariate statistics on the slopes were then calculated, with Normal theory
confidence intervals built on the mean slope, and the hypothesis of slope equaling zero
was tested, and its Normal theory p-value was calculated. This slope analysis was used as
                                           76

the basis for determining whether the steady state period was a period of changing
concentration.
[0255] When compared to the placebo group, nepicastat (2 mg/kg, b i d) produced
significant decreases in plasma NE (2.1 fold) and EPI (1.91 fold) and significant increases
in plasma DA (7.5 fold) and DA/NE ratio (13.6 fold).
[0256] The peak decreases in plasma NE and EPI were observed at day 6 and day 8,
respectively, whereas the peak increases in plasma DA and DA/NE ratio were observed at
day 7 and day 6, respectively. The effects on plasma NE, DA and EPI attained steady
state at approximately 4, 8 and 6 days post-dose, respectively. The changes in plasma DA
and DA/NE ratio were significantly different from placebo on all days post-dose. The
changes in plasma NE were significantly different from placebo on days 4-9 and days 11
13 post dose. The changes in plasma EPI were significantly different from placebo on
days 7-9 and day 12 post-dose.
[0257] Administration of nepicastat (2 mg/kg, bid) produced significant plasma levels of
the drug on all days. The peak levels were observed at 2 days post-dose. No significant
levels of the N-acetyl metabolite of nepicastat were detected on any of the days.
[0258] Chronic (14.5 days) administration of nepicastat (2 mg/kg, bid, po) produced
significant decreases in plasma NE and EPI and significant increases in plasma DA and
DA/NE ratio.      These changes reflect inhibition of the sympatho-adrenal system via
inhibition of the enzyme dopamine     -hydroxylase.
Example 16
[0259] Nepicastat was weighed and put into capsules (size 13 - Torpac; East Hanover,
NJ) to yield doses of 5, 15, and 30 mg/kg per capsule (given b.i.d. to yield doses of 10, 30
and 60 mg/kg/day).      The initial dog weight was used to determine the dose for each
animal. Dogs receiving 0 mg/kg/day received empty capsules (placebo). All doses of
nepicastat were administered as free base equivalents.
[0260] Thirty-two male beagle dogs, weighing 10-12 kg, were randomly assigned to one
of the following 4 treatment groups (n=8 per group): nepicastat at 0 mg/kg/day (placebo),
10 mg/kg/day (5 mg/kg b.i.d.), 30 mg/kg (15 mg/kg b.i.d.), or 60 mg/kg/day (30 mg/kg
b.i.d.). Dog numbers 1-16 were assigned as dose group A and dog numbers 17-32 as dose
                                         77

group B.   The terminal surgery for tissue harvest was performed over 2 days with 16
animals studied per day. Two or 3 days before the first compound administration each
dog was weighed and skin regions overlying both cephalic, saphenous and jugular veins
were shaved. Dosing consisted of oral administration of one capsule with the second
given 8-10 hr later. Dogs were dosed as scheduled on days 1-3. On day 4, prior to the
AM dose, 3 ml of blood were obtained from a jugular vein for determination of baseline
plasma compound levels. The dog was then administered the AM dose, and at 1, 2, 4 and
8 hr following the dose additional 3 ml blood samples were collected for determination of
plasma compound levels.        Blood samples were put into tubes containing heparin,
centrifuged at 4'C and stored at -20'C until analysis.         The PM dose was then
administered as scheduled. The AM dose was administered as scheduled on the days of
surgery. Approximately 6 hr after the AM dose, a final 3 ml blood sample was taken
from the jugular vein for determination of plasma compound levels. The dog was then
anesthetized with pentobarbital Na (~40 mg/kg), given i.v. in a cephalic or saphenous
vein, and delivered to the necropsy room where an additional dose of pentobarbital Na
was given (~80 mg/kg, iv). The left ventricle, renal artery, kidney, renal medulla, renal
cortex and cerebral cortex were then rapidly harvested, weighed, put into 2 ml iced 0.4M
perchloric acid, frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -70'C until analysis for
catecholamines by HPLC using electrochemical detection.         All tissue samples were
divided into 2 portions, the second of which were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen
and stored at -70'C for determination of tissue compound levels.       A third transmural
sample taken from the left ventricle was immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored
at -70'C for use in receptor binding studies.
[0261] Ventricles were homogenized in 50 mM Tris-HCl, 5 mM Na 2EDTA buffer (pH
7.4 at 4C) using a Polytron P-10 tissue disrupter (setting 10, 2 x 15 second bursts).
Homogenates were centrifuged at 500 x g for 10 minutes and the supernatants stored on
ice.  The pellets were washed by resuspension and centrifugation at 500 x g and the
supernatants combined. The combined supernatants were centrifuged at 48,000 x g for 20
minutes.    The pellets were washed by resuspension and centrifugation once in
homogenizing buffer and twice in 50 mM Tris-HCl, 0.5 mM EDTA buffer (pH 7.4 at
4C).     Membranes were stored at -70'C until required. Saturation experiments were
conducted using [3H] CGP-12177 in buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, 0.5 mM EDTA
(pH 7.4 at 32'C). Non-specific binding was defined by 10 gM isoproterenol.          Total
                                         78

bound, non-specific bound and total count tubes were set up for eight concentrations of
[3H]  CGP-12177 ranging from 0.016 nM to 2 nM. Samples were incubated at 32'C for
60 minutes. Samples were filtered over 0.1% PEI pre-treated GF/B glass fiber filtermats
using a Brandel cell harvester. Samples wee washed with room temperature water three
times for 3 seconds. Aquasol scintillation fluid was added to each vial and radioactivity
determined by liquid scintillation counting. Saturation binding isotherms were analyzed
after first converting total ligand concentrations to free ligand concentrations (total
bound    =  free).   Individual saturation isotherms were completed for each tissue.
Membranes were assayed for protein using the Bio-Rad protein binding method and using
gamma globulin as the standard. Receptor densities were expressed, per mg protein, as
mean for each treatment group. Tissue catecholamine levels were analyzed by comparing
nepicastat-treated groups with the placebo (control) treated groups. A nonparametric one
way analysis-of-variance (ANOVA) with factor DOSE was performed for each tissue and
each catecholamine measure separately. Pairwise analyses between treated and controls
at each dose were carried out using Dunnett's test to control the experiment-wise error
rate.   Student-Neuman-Kuels and Fisher's LSD tests were performed as validation.
Analysis of tissue and plasma compound levels were performed in 2 ways.                 First,
individual t-tests were run to compare each dose level to a factored level of its partner
dose for each parameter. For example, three times the level of compound present at 10
mg/kg in a particular tissue or plasma should be comparable to the compound level
observed in the 30 mg/kg group.           Additionally, a linear orthogonal contrast was
calculated for all three doses within the context of a one-way ANOVA. A paired t-test
was used to determine any differences in binding between the vehicle treated group and
the 10 mg/kg/day nepicastat group.
[0262] Dogs were orally administered 0, 5, 15, or 30 mg/kg nepicastat capsules b.i.d. to
yield doses of 10, 30, and 60 mg/kg/day for 4.5 days and tissue was harvested 6 hr after
the final administration. In the renal artery, nepicastat administered at doses of 10, 30 and
60 mg/kg/day significantly (p<0.01) decreased norepinephrine levels by 86%, 81% and
85%, respectively. Dopamine levels were significantly (p<0.01) increased at doses of 10,
30 and 60 mg/kg/day by 180%, 273% and 268%, respectively. Doses of 10, 30 and 60
mg/kg/day nepicastat significantly (p<0.01) increased the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio
by 1711%, 1767% and 1944%, respectively, compared to placebo.                      Following
administration of 10 and 60 mg/kg/day nepicastat, dopamine levels were significantly
                                          79

(p<0.01)   increased 632% and 411%, respectively in the cerebral cortex.             The
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio was significantly (p<0.01) increased 531% after 10
mg/kg/day nepicastat and 612% following administration of 60 mg/kg/day nepicastat.
Norepinephrine levels were not significantly (p>0.01) affected at these 2 doses. At 30
mg/kg/day, norepinephrine was significantly (p<0.01) reduced by 63% and the ratio
significantly (p<0.01) elevated by 86%, while dopamine levels marginally (0.05<p<0.10)
increased 174%, compared to placebo.       Following administration of 10, 30 and 60
mg/kg/day nepicastat, norepinephrine levels were significantly (p<0.01) decreased by
85%, 58% and 79%, respectively in the left ventricle. The dopamine/norepinephrine ratio
significantly (p<0.01) increased 852%, 279% and 607%, respectively, compared to
placebo animals. No significant changes were observed in dopamine levels at doses of
10, 30, and 60 mg/kg/day nepicastat.
[0263] In the renal cortex, compared to placebo, norepinephrine levels were significantly
decreased (p<0.01) by 86%, 66% and 85%, respectively, following doses of 10, 30 and 60
mg/kg/day nepicastat.     Dopamine levels were significantly (p<0.01) increased 156%,
502% and 208%, respectively, at these doses.         The dopamine/norepinephrine ratio
significantly (p<0.01) increased by 1653%, 1440% and 1693%, respectively, at doses of
10, 30, and 60 mg/kg/day. In the renal medulla, the dopamine/norepinephrine ratios were
significantly (p<0.01) increased by 555%, 636% and 677%, respectively, at doses of 10,
30 and 60 mg/kg/day nepicastat, compared to placebo.            Dopamine levels were
significantly (p<0.01) increased 522% at 30 mg/kg/day and marginally (0.05<p<0.10)
increased by 150% and 156%, respectively, at 10 and 60 mg/kg/day. Norepinephrine
levels were significantly (p<0.01)    decreased 72% following administration of 10
mg/kg/day nepicastat, compared to placebo, and marginally (0.05<p<0. 10) decreased by
69% following 60 mg/kg/day.
[0264] Statistical analysis indicated that the concentration of nepicastat in plasma
obtained on Day 4 and tissue and plasma obtained on Day 5 was dose-proportional
between each dose level and factored levels of its partner dose. Therefore, dose points
were determined to be linear, with the following exceptions (a significant result would
suggest the data are not linear):
                                        80

[0265]      Kidney medulla:       3 X 10 < 30 (p<0.05)
            Kidney medulla:       6 X 10 < 60 (p=0.077)
            Plasma (day 4):       2 X 30 > 60 (p=0.076)
[0266] On Day 5, levels of nepicastat in all tissues examined were higher than those in
plasma.
[0267] The results demonstrated no difference between left ventricular samples from the
10 mg/kg/day nepicastat treated group and vehicle treated group.
Example 17
[0268] Nepicastat was evaluated for its activity at a range of enzymes including tyrosine
hydroxylase,       NO  synthase,  phosphodiesterase     III, phospholipase    A 2,   neutral
endopeptidase, Ca 2 /calmodulin protein kinase II, acetyl CoA synthetase, acyl CoA
cholesterol acyl transferase, HMG-CoA reductase, protein kinase (non-selective) and
cyclooxygenase-I.     As shown in Figure 4, nepicastat had an IC 50 of> 10 piM at all the 12
enzymes studied, and therefore it is a highly selective (> 1000-fold) inhibitor of
dopamine-p-hydroxylase.
Example 18
[0269] Bovine DBH from adrenal glands was obtained from Sigma Chemicals (St. Louis,
MO). Human secretory DBH was purified from the culture medium of the neuroblastoma
cell line SK-N-SH and was used to obtain the inhibition data. A lentil lectin-sepharose
column containing 25 ml gel was prepared and equilibrated with 50 mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 6.5,
0.5 M NaCl. The column was eluted with 35 ml of 10% methyl a, D-mannopyranoside in
50 mM KH2 PO 4 , pH 6.5, 0.5 M NaCl at 0.5 ml/min. Fraction containing most enzymatic
activities were pooled and concentrated with an Amicon stirred cell using a YM30
membrane. Methyl a, D-mannopyranoside was removed by buffer exchange with in 50
mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 6.5, 0.1 M NaCl. The concentrated enzyme solution was aliquoted and
stored at -25 0 C.
[0270] An HPLC assay was used to measure DBH activity using tyramine and ascorbate
as substrates. The method is based on the separation and quantitation of tyramine and
octopamine by reverse phase HPLC chromatography (Feilchenfeld, N.B., Richter, H. &
Waddell, W.H. (1982).        Anal. Biochem:      A time-resolved assay of dopamine
                                         81

hydroxylase activity utilizating high-pressure liquid chromatography.       122: 124-128.).
The assay was performed at pH 5.2 and 37'C in 0.125 M NaAc, 10 mM fumarate,
0.5~2.0 tM CuSO 4 , 0.1 mg/ml catalase (6,500 u, Boeringer Mannheim, Indianapolis, IN),
0.1 mM tyramine, and 4 mM ascorbate. In a typical assay, 0.5-1.0 milli-units of enzyme
were added to the reaction mixture and then a substrate mixture containing catalase,
tyramine and ascorbate was added to initiate the reaction (final volume 200 pl). Samples
were incubated at 37'C for 30~40 minutes.       The reactions were quenched by the stop
solution containing 25 mM EDTA and 240 tM 3-hydroxytyramine (internal standard).
The samples (150 tl) were loaded to a Gilson autosampler and analyzed by HPLC using
UV detection at 280 nm. PC-1000 software (Thermo Separations products, Fremont, CA)
was used for integration and data analysis. The HPLC run was carried out at the flow rate
of 1 ml/min using a LiChroCART 125-4 RP-18 column and isocratic elution with 10 mM
acidic acid, 10 mM 1-heptanesulfonic acid, 12 mM tetrabutylammonium phosphate, and
10% methanol.      The remaining percent activity was calculated based on the control
without inhibitor, corrected using internal standards and fitted to a nonlinear 4 parameter
dose response curve to obtain the IC 50 values.
[0271] Purification of [ 14C]-Tyramine.    [ C]Tyramine hydrochloride was purified by a
C18 light load column (two columns combined into one) that was washed with 2 ml of
MeOH, 2 ml of 50 mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 2.3, 30% acetonitrile, and then 4 ml of 50 mM
KH 2 PO 4 , pH 2.3. A vacuum manifold (Speed Mate 30, from Applied Separations) was
used to wash and elute the column by vacuum.          After loading of [ 1 4C]tyramine, the
column was washed with 6 ml of 50 mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 2.3 and eluted with 2 ml of 50 mM
KH 2 PO 4 containing 30% acetonitrile. The eluate was lyophilized to remove acetonitrile,
resuspended in H 20, and stored at -20'C.
[0272] Enzyme Assay by Radioactive Method.          Enzymatic activity was assayed using
[ C]tyramine as substrate and a C18 column to separate the product.          The assay was
performed in 200 ml volume containing 100 mM NaAc, pH 5.2, 10 mM fumaric acid, 0.5
 tM  CuSO 4 , 4 mM ascorbic acid, 0.1 mg/ml catalase and various concentrations of
tyramine. The total counts of each reaction was ~150,000 cpm. Bovine DBH (0.18 ng
for each reaction) was mixed with tyramine and inhibitor in the reaction buffer at 37'C.
The reaction was initiated by the addition of ascorbate/catalase mixture and was
incubated at 37'C for 30 minutes. The reaction was stopped by the addition of 100 ml of
                                         82

25 mM EDTA, 50 mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 2.3. Entire mixture was loaded to a C18 light load
column (two combined into one) that was pre-washed with MeOH and equilibrated with
50 mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 2.3. Elution into scintillation vials was carried out with 1 ml of
KH 2 PO 4 , pH 2.3 buffer twice, followed by 2 ml of the same buffer.           ReadySafe
scintillation fluid (16 ml) was added to the scintillation vials and the samples were
counted for 14C radioactivity.
[0273] Nepicastat concentrations of 0, 1, 2, 4, 8 nM were used to study inhibition kinetics
at the following tyramine concentrations:     0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4 mm.    The "C counts were
identical in each reaction which was carried out as described above. A blank control
without the enzyme was used to obtain the background.         The data were corrected for
background, converted to activity in nmol/min, and plotted (1/V vs 1/S).         Km' was
calculated from the slopes and Y intercepts and linear regression was used to obtain Ki
value.
[0274] The IC 50 values for SKF-102698, nepicastat and Compound B against human and
bovine DBH were obtained using the HPLC assay at the substrate concentrations of 0.1
mM tyramine, 4 mM ascorbate at pH 5.2 and 37'C. All three compounds caused a dose
dependent inhibition of DBH activity on both bovine and human enzyme.
[0275] The IC5 0 values caclucated for nepicastat, Compound B and SKF-102698 showed
that the S enantiomer (nepicastat) was more potent than the R enantiomer (Compound B
by 3-fold against bovine DBH and 2-fold) against the human enzyme. Nepicastat was
more potent than SKF-102698 by 8-fold against bovine enzyme, and 9-fold against
human DBH.
[0276] A Km of 0.6 mM was determined from the Lineweaver-Burk plot. Nepicastat (1
8 nM) caused a major shift in Km, as would be predicted for a competitive inhibitor. The
inhibition of bovine DBH by nepicastat appears to be competitive with tyramine. A Ki of
4.7 ± 0.4 nM was calculated by linear regression.
[0277] Nepicastat was a potent inhibitor of both human and bovine DBH. It was 8-9-fold
more potent than SKF-102698. nepicastat (the S enantiomer) is 2-3 fold more potent than
Compound B (the R enantiomer). The inhibition of bovine DBH by nepicastat appeared
to be competitive with tyramine, with a Ki of 4.7 ± 0.4 nM.
                                        83

Example 19
[0278] The affinity of nepicastat was determined in the bindings assays outlined using
standard radioligand filtration binding methods were used.
[0279] Competition binding data were analyzed by iterative curve fitting to a four
parameter logistic equation. Hill coefficients and IC 50 were obtained directly. pKi (-log
of Ki) of competing ligands were calculated from IC 50 values using the Cheng-Prusoff
equation.
[0280] Nepicastat had moderate affinity for alpha receptors (pKi of 6.9 - 6.7).           The
affinity at all other receptors examined was relatively low (pKi < 6.2).
Example 20
[0281] At the time of dosing, a 60-mg/ml nepicastat formulation was prepared by mixing
vehicle with nepicastat powder, followed by shaking. The 6- and 20-mg/ml Nepicastat
formulations were prepared by diluting the 60-mg/ml formulation with vehicle.             The
reconstituted nepicastat formulations retained potency for the duration of use.           The
aqueous vehicle and nepicastat formulations contained hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,
benzyl alcohol, and polysorbate 80.
[0282] Dose selection was based on an acute toxicity study in which mice were
administered single oral doses of 250, 1000, or 2500 mg/kg of nepicastat. Clinical signs
of toxicity and death occurred at 1000 and 2500 mg/kg.
[0283] A single oral dose of vehicle or nepicastat formulation was administered by
gavage to each mouse using a rodent intubator. The oral route was selected because it is a
proposed clinical route of administration. Dose volumes were calculated on the basis of
individual body weights recorded before dosing (body weight data are not tabulated in
this report). Food and water were withheld from the mice 2.5 to 3.5 hours before dosing,
instead of 1.5 hours as specified in the protocol. This deviation did not affect the integrity
of the study.
[0284] Clinical observations were recorded before dosing. Beginning 60 minutes after
dosing, mice in each treatment group were evaluated in groups of up to 3 over an interval
of approximately 10 minutes each for clinical observations and protocol-specified
                                          84

behavioral tests. One mouse in the 30-mg/kg group and 1 mouse in the 100-mg/kg group
died after dosing and they were removed from the study.             Surviving mice were
euthanatized and removed from the study at the end of the observation/testing period.
[0285] Mice in groups of 6 males each were administered single oral doses of 0 (vehicle),
30, 100, or 300 mg/kg of nepicastat by gavage. Clinical observations and behavioral tests
were initiated 60 minutes after administration of the test formulation. At the end of the
observation period, all surviving mice were euthanatized and removed from the study.
[0286] Lower body temperatures were present in the 30-, 100-, and 300-mg/kg groups
compared with the vehicle-control group. No treatment-related clinical or gross behavior
changes were present. Rectal body temperature data are and observation and behavioral
test data were obtained.   No treatment-related clinical or gross behavioral changes were
present. Abnormal social grouping (listed as other reaction) occurred among mice in the
100-mg/kg group, but not the 300-mg/kg group; this finding was considered incidental.
Clinical/behavioral changes in 1 mouse in the 100-mg/kg group included inactivity,
abnormal    gait and posture, decreased induced activity, abnormal passivity,         and
soft/continuous vocalization; these changes were not attributed to nepicastat. One mouse
each in the 30- and 100-mg/kg group died after dosing; the deaths were considered
incidental and the mice were removed from the study.
Example 21
[0287] The purpose of this study was to determine if the DBH inhibitors SKF-102698
and nepicastat produced changes in locomotor activity or acoustic startle reactivity.
Changes in these behaviors may therefore reflect activity of these compounds in the
central nervous system.
[0288] Adult male Sprague Dawley rats (250-350 g on study day ) were obtained from
Charles Rivers Labs. Rats were housed under a normal light/dark cycle with lights on
between 0900 Hrs. and 2100 Hrs. Animals were housed in pairs in standard metal wire
cages, and food and water were allowed ad libitum.
[0289] The locomotor activity boxes consisted of a Plexiglas* box measuring 18" x 18"
by 12" high. Surrounding the Plexiglas® boxes were Omnitech Digiscan Monitors (model
# RXXCM 16) which consisted of a one inch ban of photobeams and photosensors
                                        85

numbering 32 per box. The number of photobeam breaks were analyzed by an Omnitech
Digiscan Analyzer (model # DCM-8). The animals were tested in an enclosed room with
a white noise generator running to mask extraneous noise.
[0290] Acoustic startle reactivity tests were conducted in eight SR-Lab (San Diego
Instruments, San Diego, CA) automated test stations. The rats were placed individually
in a Plexiglas* cylinder (10 cm diameter) which is housed in a ventilated sound
attenuating enclosure. Acoustic noise bursts (a broad band noise with a rise time and fall
time of 1 msec) was presented via a speaker mounted 30 cm above the animal.               A
piezoelectric accelerometer transforms the subject's movement into an arbitrary voltage
on a scale of 0 to 4095.
[0291] Prior to drug administration, each of seventy-two rats was placed in the startle
apparatus, and after a 5 minute adaption period they were presented with an acoustic
noise burst every 20 seconds for 15 minutes (45 startles total). The average startle was
calculated for each rat by taking the mean of startle number 11 through 45 (the first ten
startles will be disregarded).   Sixty-four of these rats were then placed in one of eight
treatment groups such that each group had similar mean startle values.           The eight
treatment groups were as follows:        SKF-102698 (100 mg/kg) and its vehicle (50%
water/50% polyethylene glycol), clonidine (40 gg/kg), nepicastat (3, 10, 30 and 100
mg/kg), and their vehicle, dH 20. Previous work has shown that this matching procedure
to be the most appropriate for startle since there is significant variability in startle
response between rats, but a high degree of consistency within rats from one day to the
next.
[0292] Each day after this testing procedure, eight rats (one rat from each of the eight
treatment groups) was injected with their assigned drug treatment and immediately placed
individually in a motor activity box.     The rats motor activity was monitored for four
hours. Next, the rats were placed in a transfer cage for fifteen minutes. At the beginning
of this fifteen minutes the rat that has been assigned the clonidine treatment will receive
another injection of 40 gg/kg.     Next, the rats were placed in the startle apparatus, and
after a five minute acclimation period they were presented with a 90 dB noise burst every
minute for four hours.
                                          86

[0293] To evaluate motor activity, horizontal activity (number of photobeams broken),
number of movements, and rest time were measured.            Each parameter was analyzed
separately.   At each time interval (or called sample), a two-way analysis of variance
(ANOVA) was performed using the ranked data (nonparametric technique) to test for the
treatment effect blocked by day. Pairwise comparisons for treated groups to the vehicle
control were also performed using Dunnett's t-test.
[0294] To evaluate startle reactivity, for the 200 milliseconds immediately succeeding
each startle the average force exerted by each startled rat over the entire 200 milliseconds,
and the maximum force, were measured.           The mean maximum and average voltages
(MAXMEAN and AVGMEAN) were computed for each treatment (TREAT) at each trial
(TRIALN), and then these values were plotted against trial number for each treatment.
The plots are attached to the report.     Trials 1-60 were set to time=1, trials 61-120 to
time=2, trials 121-180 to time=3 and trials 181-240 to time=4. The mean maximum and
average startle responses was computed within each time and for each treatment. The
means were then used in the statistical analysis.     The startle responses were analyzed
using analysis of covariance. Treatment comparisons within time were of interest to the
investigators, but not time effects within treatments. Therefore, the startle responses were
analyzed by time.      The model included terms for the day the rat was tested (date),
baseline startle response, and treatment. Date was a blocking factor and baseline startle
response was a covariate. There were three separate models for each of the objectives
stated above. The varying doses of nepicastat were compared to vehicle using Dunnett's
procedure in order to control for multiple comparisons.
[0295] When the four nepicastat-treated groups were compared to the vehicle-treated
controls, there were no overall no pairwise significant differences at any time examined in
any of the 3 parameters.
[0296] When compared to the vehicle-treated controls, the clonidine-treated group had
significantly more horizontal activities at 2 and 2.5 hours, significantly more movements
at 2 hours, and significantly less rest time at 2 hours (all p < 0.05).        Note that the
clonidine-treated group had significantly more rest time than the vehicle-treated controls
at 1 hour (p < 0.05).
                                          87

[0297] When compared to the vehicle-treated controls, the SKF-102698-treated group
had significantly less horizontal activities and significantly less movements at 2.5 hours
(both p < 0.05).      Note that the SKF-102698-treated group had significantly more
movements than the vehicle-treated controls at 1.5 and 4 hours (both p < 0.05).           No
significant differences between SKF-102698 and vehicle were detected at any time
examined in the rest time.
[0298] In general, the horizontal activity and number of movements decreased for the
first 2 hours and stayed low for the last 2 hours. Similarly, the rest time increased for the
first 2 hours and remained elevated for the last 2 hours.
[0299] Nepicastat had no significant effects on the locomotor activity in rats. Animals
treated with 3, 10, 30 or 100 mg/kg of nepicastat were not significantly different from the
vehicle-treated controls at any time examined in the horizontal activity, no. of movements
or rest time.
[0300] In startle response, the overall treatment effects for nepicastat and vehicle were
not significant (p>0.05) at any time for either response. The overall treatment effect for
average startle response at time 2 was marginally significant (p=0.070 3 ), and Dunnett's
test revealed that nepicastat 30 mg/kg had a significantly higher average startle response
than the vehicle group (p<0.05).        Baseline average startle response was statistically
significant at times 3 and 4 for both responses (p< 0.05), and marginally significant at
times 1 and 2 for maximum startle response, and at time 2 for average startle response (p
< 0.10).
[0301] SKF-102698 (100 mg/kg) was not statistically significantly different from vehicle
at any time for either startle response measurement.
[0302] Clonidine had statistically significantly lower maximum and average startle
responses than vehicle at time 1 (p < 0.01) and at time 2 for average startle only (p       =
0.0352). The maximum startle response at time 2 and the average startle response at time
3 for the clonidine group were marginally significantly lower than the water group.
[0303] Nepicastat administered at 3, 10, 30, or 100 mg/kg does not appear to effect the
maximum or average startle response in rats at any time when compared to vehicle. SKF
102698 behaved similarly to vehicle (PEG) for both startle responses at all times.
                                          88

Clonidine successfully lowered both maximum and average startle response during earlier
times, and behaved similarly to vehicle during later times.
Example 22
[0304] The effects of chronic dosing of nepicastat in rats were examined. Between three
and thirteen days prior to the first dosing day the rats were placed inside the startle
apparatus and after a five minute acclimation period they were presented with a 118dB
noise burst on average once a minute (a variable inter-trial interval ranging between 30
and 90 seconds will be used) for 20 minutes. The startle responses were measured and a
mean for the last twenty startle response was calculated for each rat. The rats were
randomly placed in one of the eight treatment groups (nepicastat, 5, 15 or 50 mg/kg, bid;
SKF-102698, 50 mg/kg, bid; clonidine, 20 gg/kg, bid: d-amphetamine, 2 mg/kg, bid;
dH 20 or cyclodextrin (SKF-102698's vehicle). Rats were dosed by oral gavage with a 10
ml/kg dosing volume. The rats were dosed in the morning and in the evening every day
for ten day. The time in between morning and evening dosing will be between 6 and 10
hours. Previous work has shown that this matching procedure to be the most appropriate
for acoustic startle reactivity since there is significant variability in startle response
between rats, but a high degree of consistency within rats from one day to the next.
[0305] Since it was impossible to test all 96 rats (8 treatment groups, n=12) on the same
day, the dosing schedule was staggered such that only 8 rats were run every day. These
12 groups of eight rats each consisted of one rat from each of the eight treatment groups
so that the treatment groups were balanced across days.         Furthermore, all treatment
groups were balanced across the eight motor activity chambers, however, treatment
groups could not be balanced across the startle chambers.
[0306] The following behavioral tests were administered during and after chronic dosing;
body core temperature, motor activity, acoustic startle reactivity, and pre-pulse inhibition
of acoustic startle.
[0307] The animals were tested in an enclosed room with a white noise generator
running.    Motor activity tests were conducted immediately after the body core
temperature reading taken on dosing day ten (about 3 hours and 35 minutes after the
morning daily dose of nepicastat, and SKF-102698, and 20 minutes prior to the daily
administration of clonidine and d-amphetamine on dosing day ten). Motor activity tests
                                         89

were run for one hour. A diagnostic program was run on each of the motor activity
chambers prior to each test session to assure that the photo beams and light sensors were
operating properly. Motor activity has been shown to be sensitive to changes in central
dopamine levels (Dietze and Kuschinsky, 1994) which makes this behavioral test a
potential sensitive assay to the effects of DBH inhibitors in-vivo. D-amphetamine was
used as the positive control for this assay.
[0308] Rat body core temperatures were obtained by inserting the rectal probe 2 cm into
the colon of each rat. Each rat's body core temperature was measured three times and the
average of the three reading was calculated.        Body core temperature readings were
obtained immediately prior to the ten day chronic dosing schedule (to obtain a baseline),
and three and half hour after the morning daily dose of nepicastat, and SKF-102698, and
15 minutes prior to the daily administration of clonidine and d-amphetamine, on dosing
days one, five and ten. Body core temperature has been shown to be sensitive to both
dopamine and norepinephrine levels, which makes this behavioral test a potential
sensitive assay to the effects of DBH inhibitors in-vivo.        Both clonidine (an alpha 2
agonist), and d-amphetamine (a dopamine releaser) were used as the positive controls for
this assay.
[0309] Acoustic startle reactivity (a series of muscle contractions elicited by an intense
burst of noise with a rapid onset), and pre-pulse inhibition (sensorimotor gating measured
by analyzing any decrease in startle reactivity which occurs when a startling stimulus is
immediately preceded by a non startling stimulus) were both measured in eight SR-Lab
(San Diego Instruments, San Diego, CA) test stations. The rats were placed individually
in a Plexiglas cylinder (10 cm diameter) which was housed in a ventilated sound
attenuating enclosure. Acoustic noise bursts (a broad band noise with a rise time and fall
time of 1 msec) were presented via a speaker mounted 30 cm above the animal. Also,
these speakers produced a 68 dB level of background noise throughout all test sessions.
A piezoelectric accelerometer attached below the plexiglas cylinder transduced the
subject's movement into a voltage which was then rectified and digitized (on a scale from
0 to 4095) by a PC computer equipped with SR-Lab software and interface assembly. A
decibel meter was used to calibrate the speakers in each of the eight test station to ± 1%
of the mean. Additionally, a SR-Lab calibrating instrument was used to calibrate each of
the eight startle detection apparatuses to ± 2% of the mean. Startle reactivity and pre
pulse inhibition tests were run concurrently immediately alter the motor activity test
                                          90

(about 4 hours and 40 minutes after the morning daily injection of nepicastat, and SKF
102698, and 10 minutes after a supplemental administration of clonidine and d
amphetamine on dosing day ten).        The startle reactivity and pre-pulse inhibition tests
consisted of placing each rat individually into a SR-Lab test station and after a five
minute acclimation period the rats were presented with one of three different types of
noise bursts (and startle reaction measured) on average once a minute (a variable inter
trial interval ranging between 30 and 90 seconds was used) for an hour (60 total noise
bursts and startle reactions). The three different types of noise bursts consisted of a loud
noise burst (118 dB), and a relatively quite noise burst (77 dB), the quite burst preceding
the loud noise bursts by 100 msec (pre-pulse inhibition trial). These trials were presented
in pseudo-random order. Pre-pulse inhibition has been shown to be sensitive to changes
in mesolimbic dopamine levels.       Furthermore, acoustic startle reactivity has also been
shown to be sensitive to changes in dopamine and norepinephrine levels which makes
these behavioral test a potential sensitive assay to the effects of DBH inhibitors in vivo.
Clonidine and d-amphetamine served as the positive control for the acoustic startle
reactivity and pre-pulse inhibition of acoustic startle tests.
[0310] The schedule of daily behavioral tests was as follows. At t=0, DBH inhibitor is
injected.   At 3.5 hours, the core body temperature is measured.      At 3 hr. 35 minutes,
motor activity is assessed. At 4 hr. 40 minutes, startle reactivity and pre-pulse inhibition
are assessed.
[0311] Three temperature readings were taken from each subject per time of testing. The
avenge of these three readings was then calculated.
[0312] Each rats spontaneous locomotion was obtained by calculating the total number of
photobeams that the subject broke during the testing session.
[0313] The subject's reaction was measured during each trial for the 40 msec window
after the stimulus was presented.      Each startle reaction was calculated by taking the
avenge of 40 readings (one per millisecond) starting immediately after each noise burst.
Acoustic startle reactivity was calculated by determining the mean response for each
subjects startle elicited by the 118 dB acoustic burst. Pre-pulse inhibition values were
calculated by subtracting the mean startle response elicited by the 77 dB pulse - 118 dB
pulse paired trial (pre-pulse inhibition trial described above) from the 118 dB alone trial
                                          91

and then dividing this value by the 118 db alone trial for each rat, i.e. ([118 dB trial value
- pre-pulse inhibition trial value] + 118 db trial value).
[0314] An overall one-way ANOVA with a main effect for treatment was performed at
each time on the change from baseline for each animal.              Subsequent t-tests were
performed for each comparison of interest.
[0315] Spontaneous motor activity was measured for each animal every 15 min for 1
hour. Each time block (every 15 min) was analyzed separately.             Kruskal-Wallis test
(nonparametric technique) was performed to test for the difference between treatment
groups. If the overall significant difference is not detected, Bonferroni's adjustment for
multiple comparisons is then made.
[0316] The mean average voltage (AVGMEAN) and mean percent prepulse inhibition
(RATIO) were computed for each treatment (TREAT) and trial type (TRIALT) at each
trial (TRIALN).     Pre-pulse inhibition values were calculated by subtracting the mean
startle response elicited by the 77 dB pulse - 118 dB pulse paired trial (pre-pulse
inhibition trial described above) from the 118 dB alone trial and then dividing this value
by the 118 db alone trial for each rat, i.e. ([118 dB trial value - pre-pulse inhibition trial
value]  + 118 db trial value).
[0317] These values were plotted against trial number for each treatment and trial type,
and these plots are attached to the report. Note that the y-axis on the plots varies. The
trials 1-15 correspond to time 1, 16-30 time 2, 31-45 time 3, and 46-60 time 4. Plots
displaying the mean percent prepulse inhibition and the mean average startle of animals
over TIME for each treatment are attached also.
[0318] The average startle response and the percent prepulse inhibition were analyzed
using Analysis of Variance.       The model included terms for treatment, animals nested
within treatment, time and treatment by time interaction. Treatment effects were tested
using the error term for animals nested within treatment. Overall treatment effects and
treatment effects by time were studied. The method of Fisher's Least Significant
Differences was used to adjust for multiple comparisons.         If the overall treatment or
treatment by time effects were not significant (p-value> 0.05) then a Bonferroni
adjustment was made.        If the overall treatment effects were nonsignificant, then the
adjustment was applied to the specific pairwise comparisons.         Further, if the specific
                                          92

pairwise treatment effect was not significant (p-value > 0.05), then the adjustment was
also applied to the treatment effects within time.         If both the overall treatment and
treatment by time effects were not significant (p-value > 0.05) then a Bonferroni
adjustment was made for the individual comparisons within time and averaging over
time.
[0319] The change from pre-dose in body weights was calculated for each animal for the
analysis. A repeated measures two-way ANOVA was used to test for the overall effects
of treatment, time and treatment by time interaction.          One-way ANOVAS were then
performed to test the treatment effect at each day.
[0320] The positive controls (d-amphetamine and clonidine) significantly increasing body
core temperature on day one of the chronic dosing, but no other compound had any
significant effect on body core temperature at any time.
[0321] The d-amphetamine group had significantly higher locomotor activity than the
vehicle control at all times examined.           The clonidine group, however, was not
significantly different from the vehicle controls at any time examined. The SKF-102698
50 mg/kg b.i.d. group had significantly lower locomotor activity than its vehicle control at
the first 45 minutes (i.e. samples 1 - 3), but not significant after 45 minutes.
[0322] There was no overall significant treatment effect for nepicastat at any time
examined. Pairwise comparisons revealed that none of the nepicastat-treated groups were
significantly different from the vehicle controls at any time examined. Also, there was no
significant difference between the two vehicle controls (dH 20 and SKF's vehicle) at any
time examined.
[0323] None of the treatment groups produced any significant change in pre-pulse
inhibition. The overall time effect was statistically significant for the SKF-102698 group
and the cyclodextrin group (p       =   0.0001).    The treatment by time interaction was
statistically significant for cyclodextrin versus dH 20 (p         =  0.0283), but no others.
Treatment effects were not significant for any comparisons of interest.          However, the
SKF group had marginally higher percent prepulse inhibition compared to the
cyclodextrin group (p = 0.0782).
                                           93

[0324] During times 1 and 2, the clonidine group had just significantly higher percent
prepulse inhibition than the vehicle control and were not significantly different from
vehicle during times 3 and 4. Neither d-amphetamine nor SKF-102698 was significantly
different from their own vehicle at any time. None of the nepicastat dose groups were
significantly different from dH 20 at any time.
[0325] Only the SKF-102698 treatment group produced a significant change in acoustic
startle reactivity. The overall time effect was statistically significant for all comparisons
of interest (all p = 0.0001). The treatment by time interaction was statistically significant
for the comparisons of amphetamine versus dH 2 0,             clonidine versus dH 20      and
cyclodextrin versus dH 20 (all p < 0.05), but no others. Treatment effects were significant
for SKF-102698 50 mg/kg b.i.d. versus cyclodextrin (p       =  0.0007) and for nepicastat 50
mg/kg b.i.d. versus SKF-102698 50 mg/kg b.i.d. (p       = 0.0047), but no others. The SKF
102698 50 mg/kg b.i.d. group had significantly lower startle response compared to
cyclodextrin, and also had significantly lower startle response as compared to the
nepicastat 50 mg/kg b.i.d. group.
[0326] The SKF-102698 (50 mg/kg b.i.d.) group had significantly lower startle response
than the cyclodextrin group at all times. During times 1 and 3, the nepicastat (50 mg/kg
b.i.d.) group had significantly higher startle response than the SKF-102698( 50 mg/kg
b.i.d.) group. No other significant differences were detected.
[0327] There was no overall or pairwise significant differences in body weight between
groups at the pre-dose baseline.
[0328] The d-amphetamine group had a significantly smaller change in body weight from
pre-dose than the vehicle controls (p<0.01). When analyzed within each day, the vehicle
controls had a significantly greater increase from pre-dose in body weight than the
amphetamine group at treatment days 4-10.         The clonidine group, however, was not
significantly different from the vehicle controls at any time examined. The SKF-102698
(50 mg/kg b.i.d.) group showed a significantly smaller increase (p<0.01) in body weight
from pre-dose baseline than its vehicle control (SKF-vehicle).        When analyzed within
each day, the SKF-vehicle controls had a significantly greater increase from pre-dose in
body weight than the SKF-102698 group at treatment days 2-10, except days 3 and 6.
                                          94

Importantly, there was no difference in changes in body weight between the SKF-vehicle
and the vehicle control groups on any day.
[0329] There was no overall significant treatment effect on body weight for any dose of
nepicastat at any time examined.       Pairwise comparisons revealed that none of the
nepicastat-treated groups were significantly different from the vehicle controls at any
time examined. Interestingly, there was a significant (p<0.05) overall difference between
the SKF-102698 (50 mg/kg b.i.d.) group and the nepicastat (50 mg/kg b.i.d.) group with
respect to changes in body weight. When analyzed within each day, the SKF-102698 (50
mg/kg b.i.d.) group had significantly lower body weights than the nepicastat (50 mg/kg
b.i.d.) group at days 7-9.
Example 23
[0330] 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) was purchased from RBI,
Inc, (Natick, MA). For administration, MPTP was suspended in water at a concentration
of 2 mg/mI (free base) and was injected subcutaneously in a volume (ml) equal to the
weight (kg) of each animal.     For example, a 950 gram animal received an injection of
0.95 ml of MPTP at 2 mg/mI resulting in 2.0 mg/kg final per injection.
[0331] Monkeys were maintained on a 13h/11lh light-dark cycle, with food and water
available ad libitum. All procedures used in this study followed NIH guidelines and were
approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Animals were
individually housed and allowed a minimum of one month to acclimate to the colony
prior to commencing behavioral studies.
[0332] Six squirrel monkeys, three non-lesioned and three lesioned (received 2 mg/kg
MPTP 3 months prior), were used to study the optimal route of administration of
nepicastat. Three different approaches were examined including (i) insertion into treats,
(ii) oral syringe, and (ii) oral gavage.  Insertion of nepicastat solution (5 mg/ml) into
marshmallows was tested in 3 non-lesioned monkeys and proved to be a poor route of
drug administration due to failure of animals to ingest treats probably due to adverse
taste. Oral syringe injection of nepicastat (0.5, 2, and 5 mg/kg) into the mouth of three
non-lesioned and three lesioned monkeys was also not an acceptable route since animals
tended to spit out the solution at the highest drug concentration.            Oral gavage
                                         95

administration was carried out in 3 MPTP-lesioned monkeys at the highest dose (5
mg/kg) and was well accepted.
[0333] Six squirrel monkeys, three non-lesioned and three lesioned (received 2 mg/kg
MPTP 3 months prior), were used to study safety and tolerability of nepicastat. Animals
received nepicastat at a concentration of 0.5, 2.0, or 5.0 mg/kg twice daily, (10 am and 2
pm), for 5 days with a two-day washout between the different dose levels. Nepicastat
was administered via oral syringe at the 0.5, 2.0 and 5.0 mg/kg doses and as oral gavage
at the 5.0 mg/kg dose. Drug was well tolerated at the two lower doses. One non-lesioned
monkey receiving 5.0 mg/kg had light beige colored loose stools on the final two days of
administration that resolved upon one day withdrawal of drug.
[0334] Twenty four squirrel monkeys, fourteen females and ten males were used in a
Parkinsonian model.     The twenty-four animals were randomly assigned to one of four
treatment groups, with 6 animals per group.       The groups consisted of the following:
Group A (6 animals) received placebo (water) treatment; Group B (5 animals) received
drug nepicastat at 1 mg/kg/day (0.5 mg/kg twice daily); Group C (6 animals) received 4
mg/kg/day (2 mg/kg twice daily); and Group D (6 animals) received 10 mg/kg/day (5
mg/kg twice daily). In Group B, one animal died acutely following MPTP-lesioning, and
was not replaced.
[0335] Prior to lesioning, animals were subjected to quantitative assessment            of
spontaneous motor activity using an infrared activity monitor (IRAM) cage.             All
recording sessions were 60 minutes in length and were carried out for 10 sessions over a
period of 2 weeks. The behavior of animals was also assessed by 1 to 3 clinical raters
using a parkinsonian clinical rating scale (CRS) once per day (12 noon to 1 pm) for 3 to 5
consecutive days. Normal animals did not typically score greater than 3 on the CRS.
Both the activity monitoring (IRAM) and clinical rating assessments established the mean
base-line activity of each animal.
[0336] Animals were lesioned by the administration of MPTP at a concentration of 2.0
mg/kg (free-base) via subcutaneous injection to achieve a parkinsonian state. A post
MPTP lesioning behavioral assessment was carried out 2 to 4 weeks after the last MPTP
lesioning. Locomotor activity was monitored by IRAM in 60-minute sessions for 3 to 5
                                         96

days. Clinical behavior (CAS) was assessed by one to three individuals rating over a
period of 3 to 5 days.
[0337] In some cases, animals required additional doses of MPTP (2 mg/kg) to obtain a
sufficient degree of lesioning to display parkinsonian symptoms, defined as an average
total clinical rating score greater than 3.    All animals received a final post-MPTP
behavioral assessment (IRAM and CRS), within three weeks of starting the efficacy
study. This final post-MPTP evaluation was used to establish a baseline clinical
parkinsonian state and used as a pretreatment value for statistical analysis.
[0338] Animals were tested for response to L-Dopa and the efficacy of drug nepicastat.
Testing was carried out 4 to 12 weeks after the last MPTP dose.                L-Dopa was
administered at a concentration of either 2.5, 5, or 7.5 mg/kg by oral gavage twice daily
(at 10 am and 2 pm) for 7 consecutive days. Behavior was determined by IRAM and
CRS. Clinical rating was carried out 60 to 90 minutes following the 10 am morning dose
on the last 4 days of treatment. Raters (one to three individuals) were blinded to the
different treatment groups.      IRAM assessment were preformed for 90 minutes
immediately following drug administration at 2 pm on the last 2 to 5 days of drug
treatment. There was a minimum 2 day washout period between each treatment dose.
[0339] Nepicastat or water (as placebo) was administered for 12 days following a
minimum 2 day washout after L-Dopa dosing. Drug was administered twice daily at 10
am and 2 pm by oral gavage. Behavior was rated by IRAM and CRS. The CRS was
conducted in the morning, 60 to 90 minutes after the 10 am dose of nepicastat on the last
5 days of drug treatment. Raters (one to three individuals) were blinded to the different
treatment groups.     IRAM assessments were preformed for 90 minutes immediately
following drug administration at 2 pm on the last 5 days of drug treatment.
[0340] For statistical analysis, locomotor activity and clinical rating scores were
monitored. The average locomotor activity was calculated pre- and post-MPTP-lesioning
for each animal. The pre-MPTP-lesioning baseline was determined by averaging ten 1
hour monitoring sessions.    The post-MPTP (pre-treatment) behavioral assessment was
obtained within three weeks of commencing the efficacy study.              The post-MPTP
lesioning locomotor activity was determined by averaging three to five 1-hour monitoring
sessions (IRAMS). Activity monitoring was reported as "movements/10 minutes". A
                                         97

higher score was considered a faster animal. The Wilcoxon sign rank test was used to
compare pre- and post-MPTP-lesioning activity for each group of animals (groups A
through D).
[0341] IRAM Locomotor activity was monitored every 10 minutes for a minimum of 90
minutes following each drug level.         A higher rating is considered a faster (less
parkinsonian) animal.
[0342] Statistical analysis consisted of descriptive statistics and graphing the mean of
each 10 minutes data blocks of placebo and experimental drug at 1, 4, and 10 mg/kg. The
graph was then examined to detect any trends.         Further statistical analysis was not
performed since no difference was determined from graphical analysis.
[0343] Statistical analysis comparing post-MPTP lesioning (pre-treatment) to 2.5, 5.0,
and 7.5 mg/kg L-Dopa and nepicastat (1, 4, 10 mg /kg/day or placebo) was not performed
due to insufficient IRAM data collection.     Only 60 minutes sessions were collected at
Post-MPTP, versus 90 minutes for nepicastat.
[0344] In the clinical rating score measurements, no pre-MPTP-lesioned animal scored
greater than three on the CRS. A post-MPTP clinical rating score was determined within
three weeks of commencing the efficacy study by averaging the total CRS of 1 to 3
individual raters from data over 3 to 5 consecutive days.
[0345] Eight parkinsonian features were rated in each animal and the total score was
derived from the sum of these eight features. For each animal, a single clinical rating
score was obtained for each drug dose by averaging the clinical rating scores of all raters
(one to three) conducted over the consecutive multiple dosing (with the same dose) days.
This average CRS was used for statistical analysis. A lower score was considered a less
parkinsonian behavioral state.
[0346] Statistical analysis consisted of: (1)  comparisons between the average CRS of
placebo to nepicastat at 1, 4, and 10 mg/kg/day using the Kruskal-Wallis (non-parametric
analysis of variance). This comparison was repeated using the average CRS for each
experimental drug concentration corrected by the final post-MPTP ratings for each
animal.   The corrected clinical scores are clinical scores of experimental drug at each
concentration as a ratio of post-MPTP clinical scores. (2) Pairwise comparisons between
                                         98

the average CRS post-MPTP lesioning (pre-treatment) to 2.5, 5.0, and 7.5 mg/kg L-Dopa
and placebo treatment using Friedman's analysis (non-parametric analysis of variance,
repeated measures). The same analysis was performed for nepicastat at concentrations of
1, 4, and 10 mg/kg. Dunnett's post hoc analysis for non-parametric data was performed
when needed.
[0347] IRAM (activity monitoring) and CRS (clinical rating scale) were used to assess
the degree of MPTP-lesioning in each squirrel monkey.
[0348] There was no significant difference between pre-lesioned and post-lesioned IRAM
groups due to the high degree of variability of movements per 10 minutes per animal for
Group A:    Placebo Treatment. Wilcoxon signed rank test: W      =  19, N   = 6, P < 0.06
Accept Null Hypothesis. The average CRS for group A was 8.9, range 4.8 to 15.4. All
animals showed substantial increase in the clinical rating scores after MPTP-lesioning.
Normal animals (non-lesioned) typically have scores less than 3.
[0349] There was no significant difference between pre-lesioned and post-lesioned IRAM
groups due to the high degree of variability of movements per 10 minutes per animal for
Group B: 1 mg/kg/day Treatment. Wilcoxon signed rank test: W        =  9, N = 5, p < 0.06
Accept Null Hypothesis Clinical Rating Score (CRS). The average CRS for group B was
10.32, range 4.3 to 16.1. All animals showed substantial increase in the clinical rating
scores after MPTP-lesioning. Normal animals (non-lesioned) typically have scores less
than 3.
[0350] There was no significant difference between pre-lesioned and post-lesioned IRAM
groups due to the high degree of variability of movements per 10 minutes per animal for
Group C: 4 mg/kg/day Treatment. Wilcoxon signed rank test: W       =  17, N = 6, P > 0.06
Accept Null Hypothesis The average CRS for group C was 8.97, range 6.5 to 17.3. All
animals showed substantial increase in the clinical rating scores after MPTP-lesioning.
Normal animals (non-lesioned) typically have scores less than 3.
[0351] There was no significant difference between pre-lesioned and post-lesioned IRAM
groups due to the high degree of variability of movements per 10 minutes per animal for
Group D: 10 mg/kg/day treatment. Wilcoxon signed rank test: W      = 21, N  = 6, P > 0.06
Accept Null Hypothesis. All animals showed substantial increase in the clinical rating
                                        99

scores after MPTP-lesioning. The average CRS for group C was 8.02, range 4.0 to 15.6.
Normal animals (non-lesioned) typically have scores less than 3.
[0352] Overall there was no significant difference in the locomotor activity as measured
by IRAM between base-line (pre-MPTP-lesioning) and post-MPTP-lesioning within
groups due to the high degree of variability of the RAM results for each animal. The
CRS results showed a difference between pre-MPTP and post-MPTP-lesioning states.
Pre-MPTP-lesioned animals scored no greater than 3 in the CRS. Post-MPTP-lesioned
animals all scored greater than 3. All groups (A through D) had an average CRS ranging
from 8 to 10 out of a total possible CRS score of 24.
[0353] There were no detectable differences between placebo treatment and three
different concentrations of nepicastat (1, 4, 10 mg/kg/day) in the MPTP-lesioned squirrel
monkey.      Both 4 and 10 mg/kg/day of nepicastat and placebo showed a significant
improvement over the post-MPTP (pre-treatment) state. All groups of animals showed
significant improvement with both 5 mg/kg and 7.6 mg/kg L-Dopa when compared to
post-MPTP (pre-treatment), with the exception of Group C for the 7.5 mg/kg dose and
Group B for the 5 mg/kg/dose.          No groups of animals demonstrated significant
improvement at 2.5 mg/kg L-Dopa when compared to post-MPTP.
[0354] A comparison of treatment groups and L-DOPA, Friedman test results, descriptive
statistics, and Dunnett's test post hoc analysis was done, and a comparison between the
activity monitoring of placebo treatment to all other concentrations of nepicastat at time
points 10 to 90 minutes post-dosing. Ten-minute intervals were plotted for each drug
dose level. There was no difference of drug (nepicastat) treatment at the 4 and 10
mg/kg/day dose level when compared to placebo. At 1 mg/kg/day animals were slower
than placebo treatment.      Based on a non-pairwise comparative analysis of 4 different
treatment groups (1,4, and 10 mg/kg of nepicastat and placebo), nepicastat produced no
significant effect in parkinsonian symptoms compared to placebo (water treatment) in the
MPTP-lesioned non-human primate model of PD.            Based on a pairwise comparative
analysis of animals, (animals of the same group examined pre and post treatment),
nepicastat at 4 and 10 mg/kg/day concentrations showed a significant effect in
parkinsonian symptoms compared to post-MPTP lesioning, (pre-treatment evaluation).
Placebo had a borderline significant effect. Using the same pairwise comparison, 5 and
7.5 mg/kg of L-Dopa demonstrated a significant effect when compared to the post-MPTP
                                         100

lesioned state in all groups with the exception of Group B (no effect at 5 mg/kg L-Dopa)
and Group C (no effect at 7.5 mg/kg L-Dopa) animals. However, 2.5 mg/kg of L-Dopa
demonstrated no significant effect.
[0355] A pharmacokinetic study was carried out to determine the plasma concentration of
nepicastat in the squirrel monkey. This study was carried out concurrently with the safety
and tolerability study. Three MPTP-lesioned squirrel monkeys (#353, 358 and 374) were
used. One milliliter of blood (drawn from the femoral vein of each animal) was collected
for analysis. Nepicastat was administered at concentrations of 1, 4, and 10 mg/kg for 5
days with a 2-day washout between each drug concentration.          Blood was collected for
analysis 1 hour prior to the first dose to establish baseline and at 6 hours after this first
drug dose of each of the different drug levels.
[0356] A second pharmacokinetic study was carried out to determine the steady-state
plasma level of nepicastat.     This study was carried out concomitantly with the efficacy
study where animals were tested on each of three different drug concentrations for 12
days. One milliliter of blood was drawn from the femoral vein 6 hours after the first dose
on day 1, then 6 hours after the first dose on day 7, and finally 6 hours after the first dose
on day 12. Baseline plasma levels were determined on samples collected the week prior
to drug dosing.
[0357] This study also demonstrated that, a pairwise analysis, which reduces animal to
animal variability by comparing the same animal pre- and post- treatment, is better suited
for detecting a significant drug effect than a non-pairwise study design when a small
number of animals is used.
Example 24
[0358] Male, spontaneous hypertensive rats (280-345g; Charles River Labs, Kingston, NY)
were fasted overnight then anesthetized with ether. A femoral artery and femoral vein were
cannulated with PE50 tubing for recording of blood pressure and administration of
compounds, respectively.     Animals were then placed in MAYO restrainers and their feet
loosely taped to the restrainer. Heparinized saline (50 units sodium heparin/ml) was used to
maintain patency of each cannula throughout the experiment. The following parameters were
continuously recorded using Modular Instruments MI 2 BioReport TM software installed on an
                                          101

IBM personal computer: mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and the change from
baseline for each parameter at specified time points in the experiment.
[0359] All compounds were dissolved on the day of use.            Nepicastat was dissolved in
deionized water (vehicle) to a free base concentration of 1 mg/ml. Oral dosing volume for
nepicastat or vehicle was 10 ml/kg. SCH-23390 was dissolved in saline (vehicle) to a free
base concentration of 0.2 mg/ml. Nepicastat or saline were administered intravenously as a
bolus in a volume of 1.0 ml/kg followed by 0.2 ml flush of isotonic saline.
[0360] Following surgical preparation, each animal was allowed a minimum one hour
recovery period.     Animals were randomly assigned to four treatment groups:          vehicle
(iv)/vehicle (po); vehicle (iv)/nepicastat (po); SCH-23390 (iv)/vehicle (po); or SCH-23390
(iv)/nepicastat (po).   Once animals were stabilized (minimum one hour), baseline blood
pressure and heart rate was determined by taking an average of each parameter over a 15 min
period of time. Once baseline blood pressure and heart rate were established, animals were
dosed intravenously with either SCH-23390 (200 pig/kg) or vehicle (saline, 1 ml/kg). Fifteen
minutes later, animals were orally dosed with either nepicastat (10 mg/kg) or vehicle
(deionized water, 10 ml/kg).
[0361] Recorded parameters were measured 15 min prior to intravenous dosing to establish
baseline blood pressure and heart rate. Recorded parameters were then measured at 5, 10, and
15 min following intravenous administration of SCH-23390 or vehicle.           Following oral
administration of nepicastat or vehicle, recorded parameters were measured at 15, 30, 60, 90,
120, 150, 180, 210, and 240 min.
[0362] At the end of the experiment, each animal was anesthetized with halothane and
euthanized via decapitation.    The cortex, left ventricle (apex), and mesenteric artery were
dissected out, weighed, and fixed in 0.4 M perchloric acid. Tissues were then frozen in liquid
nitrogen and stored at -70'C. Biochemical analysis are performed on these tissues at a later
date to determine catecholamine levels including dopamine and norepinephrine levels. Blood
pressure and heart rate were analyzed separately.        The change from baseline for blood
pressure and heart rate were analyzed by an analysis of variance (ANOVA) with effects for
treatment, time, and their interaction. This analysis was performed both for the post-iv time
period and for the post-oral time period. Further analyses were performed at each time by an
ANOVA with a main effect for time. Pairwise comparisons were performed following each
ANOVA by Fisher's LSD strategy with a Bonferroni correction when the overall treatment
effect was not significant.
                                           102

[0363] An additional analysis was performed to compare the baseline means of each
treatment group by an ANOVA with a main effect for treatment and subsequent pairwise
comparisons.    Comparisons of SCH-23390 (iv)/Vehicle (po) vs. Vehicle (iv)/Vehicle (po),
Vehicle (iv)/nepicastat (po) vs. Vehicle (iv)/Vehicle (po), and SCH-23390 (iv)/nepicastat(po)
vs. Vehicle (iv)/nepicastat (po) were made.
[0364] There were no significant differences in baseline heart rate or mean arterial pressure
between treatment groups.
[0365] Intravenous treatment with SCH-23390 resulted in a significant decrease (p<0.05) in
heart rate during the post-oral period at 120 min and 240 min compared to vehicle control.
Nepicastat did not decrease the heart rate as much as observed in vehicle treated animals.
This was statistically significant (p<0.05) at 150 and 180 min post dose. The large variability
in heart rate observed over the course of this experiment should be noted.
[0366] Intravenous administration of SCH-23390 produced a small (5± 1 mmHg) yet
significant decrease (p<0.05) in mean arterial pressure compared to animals that received
vehicle during the 15 min post-iv period. Oral treatment with nepicastat caused a significant
decrease (p<0.05) in mean arterial pressure by 30 min post dose which continued for the
duration of the experiment. Pretreatment with SCH-23390 did not significantly attenuate the
antihypertensive effects observed with nepicastat administration alone.
Example 25
[0367] Male Crl:COBS(WI)BR rats of 15 weeks old were used.              Twenty-four rats were
chronically implanted with telemetry implants (TA 1PA-C40, Data Sciences, Inc., St. Paul,
MN) for measurement of arterial blood pressure, heart rate and motor activity. The rat was
anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium (60 mg/kg, ip) and its abdomen shaved.            Under
aseptic conditions, an incision was made on midline. The abdominal aorta was exposed, and
cannulated with the catheter of a telemetry transmitter unit. After the transmitter was sutured
to the abdominal musculature, the skin was closed. Each rat was allowed to recover for at
least 2 weeks before being subjected to drug administration. Three days prior to the start of
the experiment, the rats were randomly divided into 4 treatment groups: Vehicle (p.o.),
Hydralazine (10 mg/kg, p.o.), nepicastat (30 mg/kg, p.o.), nepicastat (100 mg/kg, p.o.).
[0368] Systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), mean blood pressure
(MBP), heart rate (HR), and motor activity (MA) were monitored.            Both nepicastat and
                                           103

hydralazine were prepared in water with traces of Tween 80. All doses were given orally to
the rat in 10 ml/kg and were expressed as free base equivalents.
[0369] A computerized data collection system was used to continuously collect data on SBP,
DBP, MBP, HR, and MA. Data on each rat were collected every 5 min. for 10 sec. These
were then averaged hourly and standard errors of the mean (SEM) calculated. All values
were expressed as means ± SEM. Statistical significance was defined as a p level of less than
0.05. Data on MBP, HR and MA were analyzed separately. Each analysis was done on 26
time points measured each day. A two-way ANOVA with main effects for treatment and
time and their interaction was used. If an overall treatment effect or a significant interaction
was detected, a series of one-way ANOVA at each time point would be performed.               The
pairwise comparisons at each time point were performed using Dunn's procedure.             If no
overall treatment effect was detected, then the pairwise difference from control would be
performed by adjusting the critical value using a Bonferroni adjustment.
[0370] After the pre-dose values for these parameters were established, respective groups of
rats received a 7 day daily treatment of vehicle, nepicastat or hydralazine.
[0371] Oral administration of nepicastat at 30 mg/kg (all doses expressed hereafter are po)
tended to slowly lower blood pressure but did not induce a consistent hypotensive effect on
day 1. As the effect progressed, a peak hypotensive effect of -10 mmHg was observed on day
2 at hour 13. Similar degrees of antihypertensive effects were induced throughout the study.
At 100 mg/kg, the compound induced a peak antihypertensive response of -11 mmHg 22 hr
after dosing on day 1 (p<0.01).       MBP continued to decrease and reached its nadir of
approximately -17 mmHg on day 3 (p<0.01). The MBP remained low throughout the study.
[0372] Hydralazine at 10 mg/kg caused an immediate hypotensive effect which subsided in
10 hr, and a maximal decrease of -24 mmHg (p<0.01) in MBP was observed within 1 hr after
dosing on day 1. Similar transient hypotensive effects were observed throughout the study.
[0373] Nepicastat at 30 and 100 mg/kg, did not consistently affect HR on day 1. On day 2,
however, Nepicastat at 100 mg/kg caused a bradycardic response of -100 b/mm 3 hours after
dosing. Significant but less pronounced bradycardic responses were observed on days 3-7. In
comparison, hydralazine at 10 mg/kg induced varying degrees of tachycardia throughout the
study.
[0374] Throughout the study, none of the drug treatments showed a consistent effect on MA.
                                           104

[0375] Body weights were recorded daily.        For body weight, a two-way ANOVA with
respect to the changes from pre-dose was used to analyze overall effects for treatment, day,
and treatment by day interaction. Then a one-way ANOVA was performed for each day, and
pairwise comparisons for the drug-treated groups to the vehicle controls were made using
Dunn's procedure and Fisher's LSD strategy to adjust for multiple comparisons. Compared
to that treated with vehicle, none of the drug treatments had any effect on body weights
(p<0.05).    Although treatment with nepicastat at 100 mg/kg tended to decrease body
weight on day 3, it was not statistically significant.
Example 26
[0376] Nepicastat reduces the conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine. Basic tests for
nepicastat activity measure the levels of plasma or urinary dopamine or the ratio of
dopamine to norepinephrine. Nepicastat treatment can increase plasma or urinary levels
of dopamine or increase the dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in plasma or urine.
[0377] Shown in Figure 5, are the levels in urinary dopamine levels in normal volunteers
after 24 hour treatment with nepicastat.
[0378] Using the repeated-measures analysis of variance model, a significant increase in
the mean supine plasma dopamine/norepinephrine ration was detected in subjects
receiving 200 mg of nepicastat when compared to those receiving placebo (p < 0.05).
Urinary dopamine levels increased after 10 days of dosing with both 40 mg and 200 mg
of nepicastat.
Example 27
[0379] In patients with chronic heart failure (CHF), daily doses of 40, 80, and 120 mg of
nepicastat administered for 10 days were generally well tolerated. The dose at which the
frequency of significant adverse events increased was 160 mg.
[0380] Four of 8 patients treated with 160 mg for 8 days or longer developed a rash. Two
of the rashes were accompanied by pruritus.        One patient also had shortness of breath
with the rash.
[0381] One patient treated with the 80 mg dose was withdrawn from the study because of
symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. Concomitant medications included hydralazine and
                                          105

three diuretics. Occasional cases of orthostatic hypotension were reported in patients on
all doses, including placebo.    Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension was reported in 6 of
the 8 patients who received 160 mg
[0382] In an ongoing study in patients with CHF, there have been 2 deaths: one death was
due to worsening CHF (patient was receiving 80 mg qd) and one was sudden death in a
patient who was receiving placebo.
[0383] One serious adverse event reported as possibly being related to drug was an
increasing creatinine level, which required hospitalization. Medically significant events
not considered related to study drug include: worsening CHF in 2 patients (one of whom
subsequently had an acute MI and cardiac arrest), unstable angina in 1 patient, atypical
chest pain in 1 patient, and an adrenal mass in 1 patient who had a history of breast
cancer.
[0384] In studies of congestive heart failure patients, changes in plasma dopamine levels,
norepinephrine levels, and dopamine/norepinephrine ratios after treatment with nepicastat
in    a   10    day    study    were   determined.       Nepicastat      treatment    increased
dopamine/norepinephrine levels in the 10 day study.
[0385] In studies of congestive        heart failure patients, plasma dopamine           levels,
norepinephrine levels, and dopamine/norepinephrine ratios and changes of the levels and
the ratios after treatment with nepicastat in a 30 day study were determined.                As
Nepicastat treatment increased dopamine/norepinephrine levels in the 30 day study.
Example 28
[0386] Dopamine/norepinephrine ratios in the brain of rodents treated with nepicastat
were determined.      Dopamine/norepinephrine ratios increased in the brains of rodents
treated with nepicastat or disulfiram.
[0387]      It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts that other
suitable modifications and adaptations to the methods and applications described herein
are suitable and may be made without departing from the scope of the invention or any
embodiments thereof. While the invention has been described in connection with certain
embodiments, it is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as
                                          106

may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following
claims.
Example 29
[0388] The delayed-matching-to-position (DMTP) test is used to examine the potential
effects of drugs on short-term or working memory in rats.
[0389] Prior to the commencement of testing nepicastat in the delayed matching to
position study, pilot studies were performed with the aims of assessing the
behavioural/physiological effects of both acute and repeated administration of the highest
proposed dose of nepicastat (100 mg/kg p.o.) and establishing the maximum tolerated oral
dose of physostigmine administered repeatedly.
[0390] In pilot studies, nepicastat (30 and 100 mg/kg p.o.) or vehicle was administered
acutely to male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 8) within the same weight range as the trained
animals (400-480 g). The animals were observed by an observer blind to the treatment
status of each animal at 1, 3 and 24 h following drug or vehicle administration. Similarly,
in a separate study, physostigmine (1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg p.o.) or vehicle were
administered acutely to groups of 8 rats. Observations were made at 1, 3 and 24 hr after
drug or vehicle administration.
[0391] In pilot studies of repeated administration, nepicastat (100 mg/kg p.o.) or vehicle
was administered twice daily (06:00 and 18:00 h) for 10 days (once on day 11) to groups
of 8 rats. The weights of the animals were monitored throughout the study and, on day 5,
the animals were observed 'blind' by an independent observer in order to assess any overt
behavioual/physiological effects following repeated administration. In a separate study,
groups of 8 rats received vehicle or physostigmine (0.3, 1, 3 or 10 mg/kg p.o.) using the
same dosing schedule. The weights of the animals were monitored throughout the study.
[0392] Nepicastat (30 or 100 mg/kg p.o. acutely) did not induce any overt
behavioural/physiological changes.     Similarly, there were no overt effects of repeated
administration of nepicastat at a dose of 100 mg/kg p.o. However, in the latter study the
drug-treated animals displayed a mean loss in body weight of 28 g after 11 days whereas
controls had a mean increase in body weight of 1 g. Drug treated animals also became
more irritable than controls when handled during the 11 day study.
                                         107

[0393] Acute administration of physostigmine at doses of 3 mg/kg or higher induced
overt behavioural effects (chewing mouth movements and salivation). Signs of toxicity
were observed at 30 mg/kg p.o. (cyanosis, tremor, head jerks, ataxia).             Repeated
administration of 3 and 10 mg/kg p.o. physostigmine was toxic (3 of 8 animals were
found dead on day 2 in the 10 mg/kg group, and 2 of 8 animals convulsed on day 5 in the
3 mg/kg group).     There were no effects of repeated administration of 0.3 or 1 mg/kg
physostigmine.
[0394] As a result of these studies the highest dose of nepicastat for the DMTP study was
reduced to 30 mg/kg p.o. and a dose of 1 mg/kg p.o. of physostigmine was chosen for
repeated administration.
[0395] In the present DMTP study, rats were trained to remember the position of a lever
across a scheduled delay of either 0, 8, 16 or 32 s in order to earn food reward. Following
training, the effects of repeated administration of nepicastat (1, 3, 10 and 30 mg/kg p.o.
b.i.d.) or physostigmine (1.0 mg/kg p.o., b.i.d.) were examined across 10 successive days
of testing in the DMTP task. On the eleventh day of the experiment, the animals that
were treated with nepicastat and physostigmine were co-administered scopolamine Hbr
(0.1 mg/kg, s.c., 30 mm pretreatment time). The dose of scopolamine was selected on the
basis of data from a pilot DMTP study in which 0.1 mg/kg of scopolamine was found to
induce a significant impairment in choice accuracy. In addition to the animals treated
with either nepicastat or physostigmine, one group of animals which had previously been
treated with vehicle, was treated with scopolamine. Another group of rats received only
vehicle treatment throughout the experiment. The purpose of the final scopolamine test
was to determine whether chronic administration of nepicastat or physostigmine would
reverse a scopolamine induced impairment in choice accuracy in the DMTP task.
[0396] The dependent measures in the present study included percentage of correct
choices, the latency to make choice responses and the number of trials which the animals
were able to complete during the 70 min test sessions. Changes in the former measure
may indicate changes in memory and/or attentional function whereas changes in the latter
two measures may be indicative of other non-cognitive effects of the drugs.
[0397] Fifty-six male Sprague Dawley rats, weighing between 200-290 g at the beginning
of training, were used. They were housed in groups of four per cage and were each fed
                                         108

approximately 12-15 g of food per rat per day. This amount of food maintained the rats at
approximately 85% of their free-feeding weight. Any animals which began to drop below
this weight were given additional food. Water was freely available. The animals were
maintained on a 12:12 hour light/dark cycle with the light period beginning at 6 a.m.
[0398] Twelve Campden Instruments operant chambers with two retractable levers and a
centrally located food magazine were used for behavioural testing. A flap, which could
be pushed back by the rat to enable it to obtain food pellets, was positioned in front of the
food magazine. The boxes were modified so that partitions could be fitted either side of
the food magazine. The partitions were clear Perspex, reaching from the grid floor to the
ceiling of the chamber and extending 105 mm into the central area. The operant boxes
were contained in sound and light attenuating shells. Paul Fray Control System Interlaces
and an Acorn A5000 computer programmed with Arachnid software was used to control
the operant equipment.
[0399] With the house light on throughout the session, rats were initially trained to
retrieve Noyes 45 mg Formula 'A' food pellets from behind the magazine flap. Rats were
then trained to press both the left and right levers to obtain food reward. Either the left or
right lever was randomly presented during a 30 mm session. A response to the inserted
lever resulted in the retraction of the lever, delivery of a food pellet and illumination of
the magazine light. The magazine light remained on until the pellet was retrieved.
[0400] Matching to position training began next. This and all subsequent training was
conducted with the partitions fitted into the operant boxes. The sessions were initially 50
minutes long.    Rats were placed in the operant box and the session began when the
houselight was illuminated.     Following a 30 s intertrial interval (ITI), one of the two
levers (the sample lever) was inserted into the chamber. The lever remained inserted into
the chamber until a lever-press response occurred. A response to the lever resulted in
retraction of the lever and the illumination of the magazine light (but not pellet delivery).
As soon as the magazine flap was pressed the magazine light was extinguished and both
levers were inserted.     A response to the sample lever (i.e., the same lever as was
previously presented) resulted in retraction of both levers, delivery of a food pellet and
the illumination of the magazine light. The magazine light remained on until the flap was
pressed. A response to the incorrect lever (the opposite lever to that presented as the
sample lever) did not produce a food pellet and initiated a 10 s time-out (TO) period
                                          109

during which the houselight was extinguished.          A 30 s ITI was initiated before the
commencement of a new trial. The lever inserted as the sample lever was semi-randomly
determined such that the right and lefthand levers were presented as the sample lever 8
times in a block of 16 trials.
[0401] A correction procedure was used throughout this and all subsequent training. The
lever to be inserted (left or right) as the sample lever was randomly determined by the
computer on non-correction trials (i.e., the first trial of the session and trials that
immediately followed a trial on which a correct choice occurred). Each time an incorrect
response occurred, the lever that was not chosen (i.e., the 'correct' lever) was presented as
the sample on the subsequent 'correction' trial. These correction trials prevented position
habits (i.e., always responding on either the left or right lever and achieving 50% correct).
The number of correction trials was recorded, but only the data collected on the non
correction trials were used to evaluate the percentage of correct choices.
[0402] Following 24 sessions, the animals were performing the matching to position task
with a high degree of accuracy. On Session 25 a variable delay interval was interposed
between the depression of the sample lever and presentation of the levers on the choice
trial. After a response to the sample lever, the choice levers were inserted following the
first flap press occurring after either a 0 s (immediate), 4, 8 or 16 s delay. The order of
the four types of trials (0, 4, 8 or 16 s delay) was semi-randomly determined with the
constraint that in a 16 trial block, each delay occurred 4 times; twice on a left trial and
twice on a right trial. A limited hold was used such that if the rat did not make a choice
response within 30 s of the end of the scheduled delay period, the trial was terminated and
the intertrial interval began.     Such a trial was counted as incomplete and did not
contribute to the data analysis. The same trial was reinstated following the end of the ITI.
From Session 25 onward the time-out period following incorrect choices was omitted and
the session length was increased to 70 minutes.
[0403] Following 26 sessions with the 0-16 s delay (Session 25-50) the intertrial-interval
was decreased to 10 s and, over the next 8 sessions (Session 51-58), a delay of up to 64 s
was used. Due to poor performance at the 64 s delay, however, this delay was not used in
any further sessions. On Session 59, delays of 0, 8, 16 and 32 s were used. These delays
were used in all subsequent sessions. Only 51 of the 56 rats completed more than 24
trials (correction plus non-correction) during Session 59. These rats were selected and
                                          110

semi-randomly assigned to the following 7 groups such that the groups were matched on
performance (percent correct, response latency and number of trials completed):
Vehicle/Vehicle (n=7), Vehicle/Scopolamine (n=), nepicastat 1.0 mg/kg/Scopolamine
(n=7), nepicastat 3.0 mg/kg/Scopolamine (n=7), nepicastat 10.0 mg/kg/Scopolamine
(n=7), nepicastat 30 mg/kg/Scopolamine, and Phys/Scopolamine (n=8).
[0404] At 6:00 am and 6:00 pm of the consecutive days during which Sessions 60-69
were run, the rats received oral administration of either vehicle, physostigmine (Phys) or
nepicastat (1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg). Due to the high degree of choice accuracy displayed by
the vehicle treated animals during sessions 68 and 69, the 0, 8, 16 and 32s delay was also
used during the final test session (Session 70) in which all but the Vehicle/Vehicle treated
group received 0.1 mg/kg of scopolamine HBr administered s.c. 30 minutes prior to
testing. The animals in the Vehicle/Vehicle group received a s.c. injection of saline 30
minutes prior to the final test session.     Thus, the drug treatments administered to the
seven groups during the 11 consecutive days of the present experiment were:
     Group     Session 60-69                 Session 70
               (0, 8, 16, and 32 s delay)    (0, 4, 8, and 32 s delay)
     1         Vehicle                       Vehicle/Vehicle
     2         Vehicle                       Vehicle/Scopolamine
     3         nepicastat 1.0 mg/kg          nepicastat 1.0 mg/kg/Scopolamine
     4         nepicastat 3.0 mg/kg          nepicastat 3.0 mg/kg/Scopolamine
     5         nepicastat 10 mg/kg           nepicastat 10 mg/kg/Scopolamine
     6         nepicastat 30 mg/kg           nepicastat 30 mg/kg/Scopolamine
     7         Physostigmine                 Physostigmine/Scopolamine
[0405] The data collected and analyzed in the present DMTP study include 1) the
percentage of correct responses; 2) the latency between performance of a response to the
sample lever and the performance of the choice response and 3) the total number of
correction and non-correction trials completed. The former two dependent measures were
collected for the non-correction trials only.
                                          111

[0406] In order to increase the power and sensitivity of the statistical analyses, during the
first 10 drug treatment sessions (Session 60-69) the data were collapsed into two-session
blocks (Block 1-5), although figures for the data collected on Day 1-Day 10 of the study
are   included.     Also,   because   the   animals   in  the   Vehicle/Vehicle     and   the
Vehicle/Scopolamine groups received the same treatment for the first 10 days of testing,
the animals in these two groups were combined for the purpose of statistical analysis
during Blocks 1-5.
[0407] Two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with drug treatment as the between
subjects factor and delay (0, 8, 16 or 32s) as the within-subjects factor was used to
analyze percentage of correct choices and response latency.           These analyses were
conducted separately for each block of data. Significant interactions were followed by a
one-way ANOVA which was conducted at each delay. A significant main effect from a
one-way ANOVA was followed by a two-tailed Dunnett's t-test.              One-way ANOVA
followed by a post hoc Dunnett's test, when appropriate, was used to analyze the mean
number of trials completed.
[0408] All the statistical tests were conducted on a Macintosh computer using
SuperAnova software. Alpha was set to 0.05 throughout. Animals which were unable to
complete trials at each of the four delay periods were excluded from analyses of
percentage of correct choices and response latency. The number of animals that were
included in the analysis of percentage of correct choices and latency to respond for each
of the 5 blocks of drug testing and on the scopolamine (scop) test day were recorded. To
assess the overall effects of the drugs on ability to perform the delayed matching to
sample task, all animals were included in the analysis of number of trials completed.
[0409] Physostigmine sulphate (1.0 mg/kg, supplied by RBI) and nepicastat (1, 3, 10 and
30 mg/kg, supplied by Roche) were administered p.o. twice daily starting at 6:00 am and
6:00 pm. Scopolamine HBr (0.1 mg/kg, supplied by Sigma) was administered s.c. 30
minutes prior to the last test session. Physostigmine and nepicastat were dissolved or
suspended in distilled water and injected in a volume of 2.5 ml/kg. Scopolamine HBr
was dissolved in saline and injected in a volume of 1.0 ml/kg.           All drug doses are
expressed as base weight.
                                        112

[0410] During the first block of testing, the drugs had no significant effects on percentage
of correct choices or the latency to perform a choice response in the DMTP task. Drug
treatment also failed to affect the number of trials completed, F(5,45)=0.319, p= 0.899.
[0411] In block 2, nepicastat and physostigmine had no significant effects on any of the
dependent measures during this block of the test. Although the effect was not statistically
significant, F(5,45)=1.717, p=O.150, there was a trend towards a decrease in the number
of trials completed. This apparent effect was slightly more marked in the groups treated
with either 3 or 30 mg/kg of nepicastat, and in the group treated with physostigmine. In
fact, during this block of training only 4 out of 7 of the animals treated with 30.0 mg/kg
of nepicastat were able to complete trials at all of the four delays.
[0412] During block 3 of testing the animals treated with physostigmine displayed a
delay-independent impairment in choice accuracy.          ANOVA on percentage of correct
choices revealed a significant main effect of drug treatment, but the drug treatment X
delay interaction failed to reach statistical significance. A post hoc Dunnett's test on the
main effect of drug treatment revealed that only the physostigmine treated group
significantly differed from the vehicle treated group. Drug treatment did not significantly
affect response latency or number of trials completed, F(5,45)=0.701, p=0.625, during
this block of testing.
[0413] The effects of drug treatment on percentage of correct choices approached, but
failed to reach statistical significance in block 4 (p=0.056). Drug treatment did, however,
significantly impair response latency with the ANOVA revealing a significant drug
treatment X delay interaction. Subsequent one-way ANOVAs conducted at the 0, 8, 16
and 32 s delays found a statistically significant group effect at only the 32 s delay;
F(5,40)=2.115,      p=0.084;       F(5,40)=1.403,    p=0.244;     F(5,40)=2.259,   p=0.067;
F(5,40)=3.325, p=0.01 3, for the 0, 8, 16 and 32 s delays, respectively.         A post hoc
Dunnett's test at the 32 s delay found that only the group treated with 10.0 mg/kg of
nepicastat had a longer latency to perform the choice response than did the vehicle treated
group. Drug treatment did not significantly affect the number of trials completed during
Block 4 of the test, F(5,45)=1 .533, p=O.l 99.
[0414] During block 5 of testing nepicastat induced a marked dose- and delay-dependent
impairment in choice accuracy. Two-way ANOVA revealed a significant drug treatment
                                           113

X delay interaction and subsequent one-way ANOVAs at the 0, 8, 16 and 32 s delays
found a significant group difference in percentage of correct choices at only the 32 s
delay, F(5,39)=0.327,     p=0.894; F(5,39)=0.825,      p=0.539; F(5,39)=1.188,      p=0.333;
F(5,39)=3.018, p=0.021, for the 0, 8, 16 and 32 s delays, respectively.         A post hoc
Dunnett's test conducted at the 32 s delay found that both the 10 and the 30 mg/kg
nepicastat treated groups showed impairments in percentage of correct choices relative to
the vehicle treated animals.
[0415] Nepicastat and physostigmine did not significantly affect response latency or
number of trials completed, F(5,45)=1.692, p=0.156, during Block 5 of the test.
[0416] Many of the animals did not perform the delayed matching to sample test after
administration of scopolamine HBr. Only 1 rat treated with 10.0 mg/kg of nepicastat plus
scopolamine, and only 2 rats treated with 30.0 mg/kg of nepicastat plus scopolamine were
able to complete trials at each of the four delays. In fact n < 4 occurred in all the groups
except for the Vehicle/Vehicle and the Vehicle/Scopolamine in which seven and four rats,
respectively, completed trials at each of the four delays.
[0417] The number of trials completed by the animals in all of the scopolamine treated
groups was significantly reduced, F(6, 16)=8.801, p=0.001.
[0418] Due to the small number of subjects in the scopolamine treated groups, the choice
accuracy and the response latency data were not subjected to ANOVA.         In addition, the
mean percentage of correct choices collapsed across the four delays. A t-test comparing
the choice accuracy in the Vehicle/Scopolamine group to the Vehicle/Vehicle group
found that scopolamine significantly impaired percentage of correct choices, t(9)=4.15,
p=0.003. With fewer than 4 subjects in the other groups, further statistical analyses were
not conducted. It is interesting to note, however, that the two animals in the group given
30.0 mg/kg of nepicastat plus scopolamine performed well compared to the group treated
with scopolamine alone: both of the animals treated with 30.0 mg/kg of nepicastat plus
scopolamine     made    more    correct  choices    than   any  of the    animals    in  the
Vehicle/Scopolamine treated group or any of the animals in the other scopolamine treated
groups.
[0419] Nepicastat when administered alone does not appear to induce memory enhancing
effects in the DMTP test.      It is notable that the delay induced memory impairment
                                         114

observed in the vehicle treated control animals appeared to dissipate across the five
blocks of testing. However, by the fifth block of testing the vehicle treated control
animals were still showing a delay-dependent memory impairment with 100% choice
accuracy at the 0 s delay and 80% choice accuracy at the 32 s delay. Thus, a ceiling
effect in the performance of the vehicle treated animals at the 32 s delay was not
observed.
[0420] Notably, by the fifth block of training nepicastat may have selective memory
disrupting effects. Physostigmine did not improve performance on any of the treatment
days and actually produced a delay-independent impairment in choice accuracy during
Block 3 of testing (Days 5 & 6). The results from a scopolamine challenge test on day 11
in which the animals were co-administered scopolamine HBr (0.1 mg/kg) and nepicastat
or physostigmine could not be analyzed due to the small number of subjects in the
nepicastat and physostigmine treated groups that were able to perform the DMTP task.
However, two rats receiving 30.0 mg/kg of nepicastat and scopolamine that were able to
perform the DMTP task displayed a higher choice accuracy than any of the other
scopolamine treated animals. It is possible that nepicastat is capable of reversing some of
the cognitive disruption induced by scopolamine, an effect that may be masked by other
"non-cognitive" actions of the compound.
[0421] Nepicastat induced significant dose- and delay-dependent impairments in choice
accuracy.    The animals treated with 10.0 mg/kg of nepicastat showed absolutely no
impairments in choice accuracy at the 0, 8 and 16 s delays. In contrast, at the 32 s delay,
the animals in the 10.0 mg/kg nepicastat group were impaired relative to the vehicle
treated group.    The group treated with the highest dose of 30.0 mg/kg of nepicastat
showed no impairments in choice accuracy at the 0 s delay, a tendency to impaired choice
accuracy at the 8 and 16 s delays and a significant impairment in choice accuracy relative
to the vehicle treated groups at the 32 s delay. The delay-dependent nature of these drug
induced impairments in choice accuracy suggests that the compound may be acting
directly on short-term or working memory. The animals are sufficiently motivated and
able to accurately perform the DMTP task at the shorter delays and show impairments
only when the retention interval is long. Few compounds that have been tested in this
model have shown this profile. Many compounds which have been claimed to impair
memory typically induce impairments in choice accuracy which is observed at all delays
(e.g., MK-801, scopolamine). Nepicastat had a small effect on latency to complete trials
                                         115

which was apparent on the fourth block of training, during which the animals treated with
10.0 mg/kg of nepicastat took longer to completed the 32 s delay trials than the vehicle
treated animals. This effect was not dose-dependent and was not observed in the group
treated with 30.0 mg/kg. There was also a trend for the animals treated with nepicastat to
complete fewer trials than the vehicle treated animals: trends for reductions in number of
trials completed were observed during the last two blocks of training.           Due to the
variability in the data, however, these trends did not reach statistical significance.  This
variability in the data was unexpected. It appears likely that the initial stress induced by
the chronic oral dosing regime may have disrupted the performance of these food
deprived animals, particularly during the first few blocks of the experiment. All of the
groups showed reductions in the number of trials completed between the first and second
block of training.    The animals recovered from this initial decline and showed more
consistent performance across the next three blocks of training.
[0422] We found that some of the animals in this study began to lose weight, in some
cases in excess of 5% of total body weight. Animals which were showing weight loss
were separated and given additional food at the end of their daily training session. This
extra feeding may have contributed to the variability in number of trials completed.
Although systematic recordings were not made, casual observation suggested that more
animals in the 30 mg/kg group than in the other groups had to be given additional food.
This observation is consistent with the results of a pilot study in which daily
administration of 100 mg/kg p.o. of nepicastat induced a marked loss of body weight.
[0423] Physostigmine did not improve performance of the rats in the DMTP test. In fact,
the animals treated with physostigmine showed a significant impairment in percentage of
correct choices during Block 3 of training.      In contrast to the effects obtained with
nepicastat, the impairment in choice accuracy induced by physostigmine was delay
independent: the interaction term from the analysis of variance did not approach statistical
significance.   Thus, the effects of physostigmine on response accuracy are likely to be
secondary to behaviorally toxic effects of the drug when it is administered at this dose.
The animals appeared to develop tolerance to these effects over the last two blocks of
training during which the impairments in choice accuracy induced by physostigmine no
longer reached statistical significance.
                                         116

[0424] Finally, physostigmine did not appear to reverse the effects of scopolamine during
the scopolamine test. It is possible that a different dose of physostigmine may have been
effective against scopolamine. We have not previously attempted to reverse scopolamine
with physostigmine using the present dosing regime and therefore have no historical data
to compare with the present results. This lack of effect of physostigmine may be due to
the fact that, compared with acute administration, a lower dose of physostigmine had to
be employed for chronic administration. The animals would not have tolerated repeated
administration of a higher dose of physostigmine (see results of the pilot study) which
may be required to reverse the effects of scopolamine.       In addition, nepicastat did not
appear to reverse the effects of scopolamine although it is interesting that the two animals
treated with 30.0 mg/kg of nepicastat that were able to perform during the scopolamine
test showed higher choice accuracy than any of the animals in any of the other
scopolamine     treated groups.     Further research would be needed to            determine
unequivocally whether acute or chronic treatment with nepicastat can reverse the effects
of scopolamine in this test.
[0425] Nepicastat appears to have specific memory-disrupting effects which are apparent
after 8 days of dosing.      Physostigmine did not improve performance on any of the
treatment days and actually produced a delay-independent impairment in choice accuracy
during Block 3 of testing (Days 5 & 6). The results from a scopolamine challenge test on
day 11 in which the animals were co-administered scopolamine HBr (0.1 mg/kg) and
nepicastat or physostigmine could not be analyzed due to the small number of subjects in
the nepicastat and physostigmine treated groups that were able to perform the DMTP
task. However, two rats receiving 30.0 mg/kg of nepicastat and scopolamine that were
able to perform the DMTP task displayed a higher choice accuracy than any of the other
scopolamine treated animals. It is possible that nepicastat is capable of reversing some of
the cognitive disruption induced by scopolamine, an effect that may be masked by other
"non-cognitive" actions of the compound.         On the final block of training, nepicastat
induced dose- and delay-dependent impairments in choice accuracy.                 This is an
unexpected finding given that many other memory disrupting drugs, such as scopolamine
and MK-801, induce delay-independent impairments in choice accuracy that are probably
due to impairments in attention and/or motor/motivational factors.         In contrast, it is
unlikely, that changes in attention or motor/motivation performance could account for the
present results with nepicastat.      If this drug is selective for a novel receptor or
                                         117

pharmacological mechanism, these results suggest an important role for this substrate in
working memory.
Example 30
[0426] Recently we have demonstrated that nepicastat, a selective dopamine               p
hydroxylase inhibitor, exhibited an effective antihypertensive activity in acute studies in
SHRs. The antihypertensive effects of nepicastat were examined chronically in the same
strain of rats. Furthermore, we also explored the possible potentiation effects of the co
administration of the compound with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor
enalapril.     Effects of the treatments on the cardiac hypertrophy in SHRs were also
examined.
[0427] Male SHRs/NCrl BR rats (22-28 weeks old at the onset of dosing), and weight
matched WKY/NCrI BR rats were used.           Four series of experiments were conducted
sequentially:
     Series I
             Vehicle
             Enalapril       10 mg/kg
             nepicastat      3 mg/kg
             nepicastat      10 mg/kg
     Series II
             Vehicle
             Enalapril       10 mg/kg
             nepicastat      30 mg/kg
             nepicastat      100 mg/kg
     Series III
             Vehicle
                                         118

             Enalapril     1 mg/kg
             nepicastat    30 mg/kg
             nepicastat    30 mg/kg + enalapril 1 mg/kg
     Series IV
             Enalapril     1 mg/kg (El)
             nepicastat    15 mg/kg + El
             nepicastat    30 mg/kg + El
             nepicastat    60 mg/kg + El
[0428] In each series, 24 SHRs were chronically implanted with telemetry implants for
measurement of arterial blood pressure, heart rate and motor activity.         The rat was
anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium (60 mg/kg, i.p.) and its abdomen shaved. Under
aseptic conditions, an incision was made on midline. The abdominal aorta was exposed,
and cannulated with the catheter of a telemetry transmitter unit. After the transmitter was
sutured to the abdominal musculature, the skin was closed.        Each rat was allowed to
recover for at least 2 weeks before being subjected to drug administration. The rats were
housed individually in a quiet room with reversed light/dark cycle (08:00-20:00, lights
off.)
[0429] Three days prior to the start of the experiment, the rats were randomly divided
into 4 groups and their systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP),
mean blood pressure (MBP), heart rate (HR), and motor activity (MA) were monitored.
After the predose values for these parameters were established, respective groups of rats
received a 30 day daily treatment of nepicastat and/or enalapril (see below).
[0430] Twenty-four hrs after the last treatment, the rats were sacrificed and the left
ventricles were collected, weighted (wet weight), and lyophilized for at least 24 hr to
obtain dry weights.
[0431] At the start of each experiment, the number of rats in each group undergoing
telemetry monitoring was always 6. In Series I, however, 7 Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats
                                        119

were similarly housed and dosed with vehicle (water), while in Series III and IV an
additional 2 rats in each group were similarly treated (to increase the numbers of animals
for statistical analysis on effects on the hypertrophy of SHRs).            No telemetry
instrumentation or monitoring was conducted on these rats.
[0432] Both nepicastat and enalapril were prepared in water. All doses were given orally
to the rat in 10 ml/kg and were expressed as free base equivalents. Enalapril (Vasotec@)
was obtained commercially from a local pharmacy.
[0433] A computerized data collection system was used to continuously collect data on
SBP, DBP, MBP, HR, and MA. Data on each rat were collected every 5 min. for 10 sec.
These were then averaged hourly and standard errors of the mean (SEM) calculated. At
the end of the treatment, left ventricular mass (dry and wet weights) were obtained. Body
weights were recorded daily.
[0434] All values were expressed as means ± SEM. Statistical significance was defined
as a p level of less than 0.05.
[0435] Data on MBP, HR and MA were analyzed separately. Each analysis was done on
26 time points measured each thy. A two-way ANOVA with main effects for treatment
and time and their interaction was used. If an overall treatment effect or a significant
interaction was detected, a series of one-way ANOVA at each time point would be
performed. The pairwise comparisons at each time point were performed using Dunn's
procedure. If no overall treatment effect was detected, then the pairwise difference from
control would be performed by adjusting the critical value using a Bonferroni adjustment.
[0436] For left ventricular mass, an analysis of covariance with a covariate of final body
weights was used to analyze tissue wet weights and tissue dry weights, while Kruskal
Wallis test was used to analyze ratios of tissue wet weight/body weight and tissue dry
weight/body weights. If an overall treatment effect among all groups was not detected,
Bonferron's adjustment to multiple comparisons was then made.
[0437] For body weight a two-way ANOVA with respect to the changes from pre-dose
was used to analyze overall effects for treatment, day, and treatment by day interaction.
Then a one-way ANOVA was performed for each day, and pairwise comparisons for the
                                          120

drug-treated groups to the vehicle controls were made using Dunn's procedure and
Fisher's LSD strategy to adjust for multiple comparisons.
[0438] For series I and II, Oral administration of nepicastat at 3 and 10 mg/kg (all doses
expressed hereafter are po) did not significantly affect blood pressure on any of the 30
day treatment (data not shown). At 30 mg/kg, nepicastat gradually lowered MBP on day
1 and continued to lower the MBP to a maximal of -20 mmHg on day 3 (p<0.01), with
little recovery within 24 hr. Similar antihypertensive effects were induced throughout the
study.    At 100 mg/kg, the compound induced a peak antihypertensive response of-29
mmHg 21 hr after dosing on day 1 (p<0.01). MBP continued to decrease and reached its
nadir of approximately -42 mmHg on day 3 (p<0.01).               The MBP remained low
throughout the study.
[0439] Enalapril at 10 mg/kg, consistently lowered MBP throughout the study.              A
maximal decrease of -29 mmHg (p<0.01) in MBP was observed within 1 hr after dosing
on day 5.
[0440] In series III, although mono-administration of enalapril at 1 mg/kg (n=6) or
nepicastat at 30 mg/kg (n=6) induced only a small antihypertensive effect, the co
administration of the two compounds (n=6) induced a greater antihypertensive response (
21 mmHg at hr 16 on day 1, p<0.01). The onset of the response was slow and gradual.
With a second administration on day 2, a greater antihypertensive response was observed
most of the day with combined treatment (-25 mmHg at hr 13, p<0.01). The potentiation
was observed throughout the study.
[0441] In series IV, potentiation of the effects of nepicastat by a non-antihypertensive
dose of enalapril was studied further. In the presence of enalapril (1 mg/kg), although
nepicastat at 60 mg/kg initially produced a greater and longer antihypertensive effect than
those induced by the compound at 15 or 30 mg/kg, no greater effect was observed on day
8 through day 30. Thus, the potentiation was not related to the doses of nepicastat tested
(15, 30 and 60 mg/kg). The group that received nepicastat 15 mg/kg and El exhibited
low average mean blood pressure with a large standard error (two rats showed greater
antihypertensive responses than the rest).
[0442] Nepicastat at 3 and 10 mg/kg, did not consistently affect heart rate (HR) in the 30
day studies. The groups treated with nepicastat at 100 mg/kg, however, tended to exhibit
                                         121

lower HR than the vehicle control group, at least in the first few hours after dosing.
Although enalapril at 1 mg/kg did not affect HR, the compound at 10 mg/kg tended to
induce a transient small tachycardia within 2 hr after dosing. In Series III, none of the
treatments, i.e., enalapril (1 mg/kg), nepicastat (30 mg/kg) or the combination,
consistently affected HR. In Series IV, the groups treated with nepicastat (15, 30 and 60
mg/kg) and enalapril (1 mg/kg) tended to exhibit lower HR than the group treated with
enalapril (1 mg/kg) alone.
[0443] Throughout the study, none of the drug treatments showed a significant effect on
motor activity (MA).
[0444] Nepicastat at 3 - 100 mg/kg did not affect the cardiac hypertrophy observed in
SHRs (p>0.05). Enalapril (10 mg/kg) significantly reduced left ventricular mass in Series
II, but not in Series I. In Series III, enalapril at 1 mg/kg did not regress the hypertrophy,
but the co-administration of enalapril (1 mg/kg) and nepicastat (30 mg/kg) significantly
decreased the left ventricular mass of the SHRs (p<0.01). In Series IV, however, effects
of co-administration of enalapril (1 mg/kg) and nepicastat at 15, 30 and 60 mg/kg on the
left ventricular mass were not different from enalapril alone (p>0.05).
[0445] Compared to that treated with vehicle, treatment of the SHRs with nepicastat at 3
and 10 mg/kg did not have any effect on body weights in SHRs (p>0.05). Treatment with
the compound at 30 and 100 mg/kg, however, induced greater increases in body weight
(p<0.05).
[0446] In comparison, enalapril at 10 mg/kg significantly decreased (p<0.05) or had no
effect on the body weights of the rat. Although treatment with enalapril at 1 mg/kg
slightly decreased body weight, co-administration of enalapril (1 mg/kg) and nepicastat
(30 and 60 mg/kg) slightly increased the body weights of the rat.
[0447] The pre-dose body weights of the rats treated with vehicle, enalapril, and
nepicastat at 3 and 10 mg/kg were 387+11, 415+12, 407+4, and 415+12 g, respectively.
[0448] The pre-dose body weights of the rats treated with vehicle, enalapril, and
nepicastat at 30 and 100 mg/kg were 399+10, 389+6, 389+9, and 401+10 g, respectively.
                                           122

[0449] The pre-dose body weights of the rats treated with vehicle, enalapril, and
nepicastat at 30 mg/kg without and with enalapril were 365+9, 371+8, 361+7, and 369+7
g, respectively.
[0450] The pre-dose body weights of the rats treated with enalapril alone and co
administrations of nepicastat at 15, 30, and 60 mg/kg were 357+6, 363+6, 347+8, and
346+8 g, respectively.
[0451] Four deaths were observed in the 4 series of 30-day treatments.      The causes of
these deaths were undetermined, but it appeared unlikely that these deaths were related to
the treatment of nepicastat.
[0452] The effects of 30-day chronic oral administration of nepicastat on blood pressure,
heart rate, motor activity and left ventricular mass were evaluated in four series of
experiments in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) with radio-telemetry implants.
Daily treatment of nepicastat at 3 and 10 mg/kg (n=6) did not affect blood pressure.
Nepicastat at 30 mg/kg (n=6) induced a peak antihypertensive effect of -20 mmHg on day
3 (p<0.01).    The antihypertensive effect was modest but were detected throughout the
study. At 100 mg/kg, nepicastat (n=5) induced a greater antihypertensive effect. The
effect was gradual and reached its peak of -42 mmHg on day 3 (p<0.01). Comparable
magnitudes of antihypertensive effects were observed for the rest of the study.         In
comparison, the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril (10 mg/kg, n=6)
induced an antihypertensive effect of-20 to -30 mmHg throughout the study. Although
mono-administration of enalapril (1 mg/kg) did not induce significant antihypertensive
effects, the co-administration with nepicastat (30 mg/kg; n=6) induced a greater and long
lasting antihypertensive effect (p<0.01).    The potentiation was observed throughout the
30-day study. The potentiation of the antihypertensive effects of nepicastat by enalapril
(1 mg/kg) was also seen at doses of 15, 30, and 60 mg/kg, although these effects were not
dose dependent.
[0453] In groups treated with nepicastat at 3-10 mg/kg or enalapril at 1 mg/kg, no
significant effects on heart rate were observed. The groups that received nepicastat at 30
or 100 mg/kg, however, exhibited slight bradycardia during the awake hours of the rat. In
contrast, enalapril at 10 mg/kg induced a transient tachycardia.     Co-administration of
nepicastat (15, 30, and 60 mg/kg) and enalapril (1 mg/kg) tended to exhibit slower heart
                                         123

rate than enalapril (1 mg/kg) alone. In any of the treatment groups, no significant effect
on motor activity was detected.
[0454] Treatment with nepicastat at 30 (n=6) and 100 (n=5) mg/kg did not have
significant effects on the left ventricular hypertrophy observed in SHRs.         Although
enalapril (1 mg/kg, n=8) or nepicastat (30 mg/kg, n=7) alone did not regress the
hypertrophy, the co-administration of the two compounds (n=8) significantly decreased
the left ventricular mass of the SHRs. The effect of co-administration on left ventricular
mass, however, was not dose related to nepicastat (15, 30 and 60 mg/kg) and was not
statistically different from that of enalapril (1 mg/kg) alone.
[0455] In the four series of experiments, four deaths occurred during the course of the 30
day treatments.     Three rats were found in groups treated with nepicastat and one with
vehicle. The causes of death were undetermined, but appeared unrelated to the treatment
of nepicastat.
[0456] Nepicastat significantly reduced blood pressure in SHRs over the 30-day period at
30 and 100 mg/kg without causing any reflex tachycardia.               Co-administration of
nepicastat (30 mg/kg) with a non-antihypertensive dose of enalapril (1 mg/kg) had a
greater anti- hypertensive effect and a greater effect on regression of hypertrophy in
SHRs than nepicastat treatment alone. These effects, however, were not dose related to
nepicastat (15, 30 and 60 mg/kg).
Example 31
[0457] A study was conducted to evaluate the effects of nepicastat on responses to
autonomic agents in anesthetized, instrumented dogs.
[0458] Beagle dogs were administered single intraduodenal doses of 0 (vehicle) or 60
mg/kg of nepicastat through an intraduodenal cannula.            The vehicle-control group
consisted of 1 male and 1 female, and the nepicastat-treatment group consisted of 2 males
and 2 females.        Each animal was surgically instrumented while anesthetized with
isoflurane gas. Before dosing with test formulation, the average blood pressure responses
to intravenous doses of autonomic agents, norepinephrine (3 gg/kg), isoproterenol (0.3
gg/kg), and acetylcholine (10 gg/kg), were evaluated.           A single bolus dose of test
formulation was then administered to each animal and the blood pressure responses to the
                                           124

autonomic agents were evaluated approximately 1, 2, and 3 hours after dosing. At the
completion of the experiment, each dog was euthanatized and removed from the study.
[0459] The dog was selected because it is commonly used to evaluate the effects of test
compounds on hemodynamic parameters.           Beagle dogs were obtained from Marshall
Farms, Inc., North Rose, New York. Each dog was identified uniquely by an ear tattoo
applied by the vendor. The animals were acclimated to laboratory conditions at least 3
weeks before dosing. During the acclimation period, the general condition of each animal
was evaluated and those considered healthy were used.            The dogs were randomly
assigned to treatment groups; males were assigned odd numbers and females were
assigned even numbers.
[0460] After assignment to the study, the dogs were housed individually in stainless steel
cages identified with the study number, animal number, and tattoo number. The room
housing the dogs was environmentally controlled. The cages were cleaned daily and the
animals were transferred into sanitized cages every other week. Purina Certified Canine
Chow@ was offered once daily and water was provided ad libitum.
[0461] On the day of treatment, the dogs were approximately 14 to 16 months old. Males
weighed 10.3 to 12.9 kg and females weighed 8.5 to 11.2 kg.
[0462] At the time of dosing, a 60-mg/ml suspension was prepared by mixing nepicastat
powder with vehicle. The constituted 60-mg/ml nepicastat formulation retained potency
for the duration of use. On each day of dosing, aqueous solutions of norepinephrine (60
gg/ml), isoproterenol (6 gg/ml), and acetylcholine (200 gg/ml) were prepared in sterile
water.
[0463] A vehicle-control group of 1 male and 1 female were administered 1 ml/kg of
vehicle and a nepicastat-treatment group of 2 males and 2 females were administered 1
ml/kg of a 60 mg/ml nepicastat solution. The total dose of nepicastat administered to
each animal was 60 mg/kg.
[0464] Dose selection was based on data from two studies with nepicastat. In an acute
toxicity study in dogs, a single oral dose of 400 mg/kg resulted in transient clinical signs
of toxicity. In a 1-month study, doses of 5, 20, or 80 mg/kg were administered to dogs
orally once daily. Clinical signs of toxicity were present at 80 mg/kg/day.
                                         125

[0465] A single intraduodenal dose of vehicle or nepicastat formulation was administered
directly into the duodenum through an intraduodenal cannula. The intraduodenal route
was selected because the oral route is a proposed clinical route of administration of
nepicastat.   Dose volumes were calculated on the basis of individual body weights
recorded before dosing (data not tabulated in this report). At the end of each experiment,
the dog being evaluated was euthanatized by an overdose of sodium pentobarbital (300
mg/kg, IV) and removed from the study.
[0466] The dogs were surgically instrumented according to procedures described in the
protocol. Food was withheld from the animals overnight before surgical instrumentation.
Each animal being evaluated was initially anesthetized by injecting (IV) a mixture of
ketamine (10 mg/kg) and diazepam (0.5 mg/kg). Each animal was placed on a surgical
table on top of a circulating warm- water pad to maintain body temperature and
mechanically ventilated throughout the experiment. A surgical plane of anesthesia was
maintained with isoflurane gas (1.5% to 2% of tidal volume delivered in oxygen at a flow
rate of approximately 1.5 L/minute). Rectal body temperature was monitored only for
use in measuring blood gas levels and the data are not presented in this report. External
needle electrodes were placed subcutaneously to monitor a standard limb lead II
electrocardiogram (ECG) for assessing anesthesia.
[0467] The left femoral vein was cannulated and the tip of the polyethylene tubing was
advanced into the vena cava for administration of autonomic agents. The left femoral
artery was cannulated using a polyethylene tube filled with 50 U/ml of heparin-saline
solution. The tip of the arterial cannula was advanced into the thoracic aorta and coupled
to an external pressure transducer and systolic and diastolic aortic pressure were recorded.
Arterial blood samples were withdrawn from the arterial cannula for blood pH, PCO 2 , and
PO 2 analyses.
[0468] A midline laparotomy was performed and the duodenum was isolated just caudal
to the pyloric sphincter. A needle was inserted into the duodenum and the tip of a saline
filled cannula was advanced through the needle and into the lumen for test formulation
administration.   The needle was withdrawn from the incision site, the cannula was
anchored into position, the cannula's stopcock was exteriorized outside of the abdomen,
and the skin of the abdominal incision was reapposed.
                                         126

[0469] Following surgical instrumentation, ventilatory         adjustments were made, if
necessary, to bring arterial blood pH and PCO 2 levels within approximately normal
physiological ranges (pH    = 7.43 to 7.50 and PCO 2  = 22 to 27 mmHg).
[0470] The autonomic agents, norepinephrine (3 gg/kg), isoproterenol (0.3 gg/kg), and
acetylcholine (10 gg/kg), were administered intravenously by bolus injection (over
approximately 15 seconds) using the femoral vein cannula with approximately 10 minutes
between each dose. Following each administration of an agent, the cannula was flushed
with 3 ml of water. Administration of the agents was repeated approximately 20 minutes
after the first administration of acetylcholine.
[0471] Approximately 30 minutes after the second administration of acetylcholine, each
animal was dosed with vehicle or nepicastat. The dose volume was 1 ml/kg given as a
bolus directly into the duodenum using the intraduodenal cannula.         Immediately after
dosing, the intraduodenal       cannula was flushed with 3 ml of vehicle solution.
Approximately 50, 110, and 170 minutes after dosing, administration of the autonomic
agents was repeated with approximately 10 minutes between administration of each
agent.
[0472] Aortic blood pressure, heart rate, and ECG parameters were continuously recorded
directly on a polygraph recorder. The blood pH, PCO 2 , and PO 2 values from the blood
gas analyzer were manually recorded onto the polygraph chart at the approximate time at
which the blood samples were withdrawn. Heart rate, ECG, and blood gas parameters
were used only for assessing the level of anesthesia and the stability of the animal
preparation; these data are not presented in this report.
[0473] Systolic, diastolic, and mean aortic blood pressures were evaluated just before
administration (baseline) and at the time of peak response to each agent (maximum
change from baseline).      Systolic, diastolic, and mean aortic blood pressures, and blood
pH, PCO 2 , and PO 2 were evaluated before dosing and approximately 50, 110, and 170
minutes after dosing with test formulation.
[0474] The responses to norepinephrine were characterized by evaluating the mean aortic
blood pressure just before and at the time of peak pressure increase for each
norepinephrine administration.       The responses to isoproterenol and acetylcholine were
                                           127

characterized by evaluating the diastolic aortic blood pressure just before and at the time
of peak pressure decrease for each isoproterenol and acetylcholine administration.
[0475] At the end of the experiment, each dog was euthanatized by an overdose of
sodium pentobarbital (approximately 300 mg/kg, IV) and removed from the study.
[0476] No treatment-related differences between predose and postdose responses to
norepinephrine were present.      In vehicle-control dogs, the postdose responses to
norepinephrine were of lesser magnitude than the predose responses; this was considered
incidental. No treatment-related differences between predose and postdose responses to
isoproterenol were present.     No treatment-related differences between predose and
postdose responses to acetylcholine were present.
[0477] Surgically instrumented, anesthetized beagle dogs were administered a single
intraduodenal dose of 60 mg/kg of nepicastat. Blood pressure responses to intravenous
doses of autonomic agents (norepinephrine, isoproterenol, and acetylcholine) were
evaluated before dosing and approximately 1, 2, and 3 hours after dosing. No treatment
related differences between predose and postdose responses to autonomic agents were
present.
Example 32
[0478] The effects of acute intraperitoneal administration of nepicastat, a DBH inhibitor
(DBHI), on locomotor activity in mice. It has been suggested that compounds of this
class have effects on locomotor activity.
[0479] Adult male CD-i (ICR) mice (30-40 g on study day ) were housed in groups of
eight under a normal light/dark cycle with lights on between 0900 hr and 2100 hr. Food
and water were allowed ad libitum.        All animals were naive to drug treatment and
behavioral testing. Each animal was only used once.
[0480] Locomotor activity was monitored in an automated 14 station activity monitoring
system (San Diego Instrument Co.). Each station consisted of a clear perspex cage (25
cm x 45 cm x 20 cm; w x 1 x h) placed within a metal frame containing 3 photoemmitors
and 3 photodetectors spaced equally along the length of the wall. The bottom of each
cage was lightly covered in clean cedar bedding.
                                        128

[0481] The mice were placed in the testing room at least 1 hr prior to testing. The mice
were placed individually into one of the activity cages and allowed to explore for 30 min.
Following this habituation period, the mice were dosed intraperitoneally with either
nepicastat (10, 30 and 100 mg/kg), SKF-102698 (30 and 100 mg/kg), cocaine (30 mg/kg)
or vehicle and returned immediately to same cage. Following a 60 minute pre-treatment
period, motor activity was monitored for 180 minutes. Activity counts and ambulations
(defined as a break of 2 consecutive photobeams) for each animal were recorded every 30
minutes.
[0482] A repeated measures two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed
using the overall ranked data (nonparametric technique) to test for the overall effects of
treatment, time interval and treatment by time interval interaction. At each time interval,
a one-way ANOVA was performed to see at which of the intervals, in any, treatment
effects existed. Pairwise comparisons were then performed at each time interval using
Dunn's procedure and Fisher's LSD strategy to adjust for the problem of multiple
comparisons.
[0483] For nepicastat, the dose range was 3-100 mg/kg and was dissolved in dH 20 and
sonicated.     For SKF-102698, the dose range was 30-100 mg/kg.                   For cocaine
hydrochloride, the dose was 30 mg/kg. Compounds were administered in a volume of 1
ml/100 g. All doses reported are represented as the free base, except for cocaine in which
the salt weight was used.
[0484] In the overall model, there was a significant effect for both treatment and time
(both p<0.01) while the treatment by time interaction was not significant. The analysis at
each time point revealed that there were significant overall treatment effects at time
intervals 1 - 4 (i.e., the first 120 minutes of testing; all p<0.01) while no overall
significant treatment effect was detected at time intervals 5 and 6 (i.e., the last 60 minutes
of testing).
[0485] When comparing the cocaine to the vehicle group with respect to both activity
counts and ambulations, there was a significant overall effects for treatment and time
(both p<0.01) while the treatment by time interaction was not significant. The analysis at
each time interval revealed the cocaine group had significantly greater total activity
                                         129

counts and a significantly greater number of ambulations at time intervals 1-4, but not 5
and 6 (all p<0.05).
[0486] In contrast, there were no significant differences in either the total activity counts
or the ambulations for any of the nepicastat-treated groups or the SKF-102698-treated
groups compared to vehicle control at any time interval.
[0487] Cocaine was effectively demonstrated as a locomotor stimulant at the dose of 30
mg/kg. In contrast, acute administration of nepicastat at doses of 3, 10, 30 or 100 mg/kg
did not cause any significant change in total activity or the ambulations at any time
interval, as compared to vehicle control. Similarly, SKF-102698 at doses of 30 and 100
mg/kg had no significant effects on total activity or ambulations at any time interval
examined. These data suggest that these DBHI are devoid of motoric actions in mice.
Example 33
[0488] Acute dosing with the dopamine-p-hydroxylase inhibitor nepicastat has been
shown to inhibit the enzyme in the mesenteric artery and left ventricle in spontaneously
hypertensive rats. Changes in norepinephrine and dopamine levels in the spontaneous
hypertensive rat brain cortex and mesenteric artery after 7 and 25 days of oral
administration of 1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg nepicastat were examined.
[0489] Nepicastat at 1 and 10 mg/kg was prepared in terms of the free base.              The
weighings were dissolved in vehicle (dH 2O) to yield oral doses that could be administered
in a volume of 10.0 ml/kg.
[0490] Male spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHRs), 16-17 weeks old at the onset of the
study, were used.    Animals were allowed food and water ad libitum.          Animals were
randomly assigned to one of the following treatment groups: oral administration of
nepicastat at 10 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg, or a vehicle group of deionized water at 10 ml/kg. Rats
were dosed orally once a day for 7 or 25 days with vehicle, 1 mg//kg or 10 mg/kg
nepicastat (n=8) except for day 25, where n=9.      On day 7, four hours after compound
administration, animals were anesthetized with halothane, decapitated and the cortex and
mesenteric artery were harvested, weighed, and analyzed from 24 rats (n=8/treatment
group). The remaining 31 rats continued receiving oral administration with one of the
three treatments for the following 18 days.       At 4 hours after the last treatment the
                                        130

mesenteric artery and cortex from this group were harvested, weighed, and analyzed for
catecholamine levels.
[0491] The    animals   sacrificed on day 25       were also used for blood pressure
measurements. The last blood pressure measurement was made on day 22.
[0492] Statistically, the three treatments were compared at each time period (7 or 25
days) using a non-parametric one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA).                Pairwise
comparisons of each treatment with control were performed using Fisher's LSD strategy
on the means, adjusted for differences in sample size, to control the experiment-wise error
rate. Each variable was analyzed separately. For figures 6-11, *, p<0.05 and **, P<0.01.
[0493] In the cerebral cortex, after seven days of treatment, the 10 mg/kg dose group had
significantly (p<O. 1) lower norepinephrine levels and a significantly (p<0.05) higher
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio compared to the vehicle group. There were no significant
(p>0.05) differences in dopamine levels compared to vehicle in either of the two
treatment groups (1 or 10 mg/kg nepicastat), or in the norepinephrine levels or the
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio of the 1 mg/kg nepicastat dose group, after seven days of
treatment (Figures 6-8).   There was a slight significant (p<0.05) increase in the cortex
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio at day 7 with the 10 mg/kg nepicastat dose.
[0494] After 25 days of treatment, cortex levels of dopamine in the 1 mg/kg nepicastat
dose group were significantly (p<0.05) higher compared to the vehicle group. The cortex
dopamine/norepinephrine ratio in this group was also significantly (p<0.01) greater than
the vehicle ratio.   The ratio of the 10 mg/kg nepicastat dose group was significantly
greater (p<0.05) compared to vehicle. Norepinephrine levels in either dose group were
not significantly (p.>0.05) different than control, nor were the dopamine levels in the 10
mg/kg dose group (Figures 6-8).
[0495] In the mesenteric artery, after both 7 days (p<0.05) and 25 days (p<0.01) of
dosing, the 10 mg/kg dose group had significantly higher dopamine levels and
dopamine/norepinephrine ratios compared to the vehicle group, but there were no
differences in norepinephrine levels. None of the parameters measured were significantly
(p<0.05) different than control in the 1 mg/kg nepicastat dose group (Figures 9-11).
                                         131

[0496] Nepicastat, administered orally for 7 and 25 days, significantly (p<0.05) inhibited
dopamine-p-hydroxylase       in  the  cortex  and    mesenteric   artery  of spontaneously
hypertensive rats (SHRs). Greater inhibition was seen with administration of 10 mg/kg
nepicastat compared to 1 mg/kg, therefore the effects observed were dose dependent.
[0497] It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts that other
suitable modifications and adaptations to the methods and applications described herein
are suitable and may be made without departing from the scope of the invention or any
embodiment thereof. While the invention has been described in connection with certain
embodiments, it is not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms set forth, but
on the contrary, it is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications and equivalents as
may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following
claims.
                                         132

CLAIMS
1.      A method of treating a patient suffering from or susceptible to at least one symptom
of abuse of, dependence on, or withdrawal from at least one substance, the method
comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of Compound A.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance is selected from a drug of
abuse and a medication.
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the drug of abuse is selected from a psychostimulant
agent, an opioid, a hallucinogen, an inhalant, a sedative, a tranquilizer, a hypnotic, an
anxiolytic, and an illicit substance.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the psychostimulant agent is a beta
phenylisopropylamine derivative.
5.      The method of claim 4, wherein the beta-phenylisopropylamine derivative is selected
from amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, and methamphetamine.
6.      The method of claim 3, wherein the psychostimulant agent is selected from ecstasy,
phenmetrazine, methylphenidate, diethylpropion, pemoline, mazindol, (-) cathione, and
fenfluramine.
7.      The method of claim 3, wherein the opioid is selected from Lortab, Tramadol, heroin,
methadone, hydrocodone, and oxycodone.
8.      The method of claim 3, wherein the hallucinogen is selected from psilocybin, a
hallucinogenic mushroom, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), phencyclidine (PCP), and
ketamine.
9.      The method of claim 3, wherein the inhalant is selected from benzene, toluene, o
xylene, m-xylene, p-xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene, 1,3,5
triflurobenzene, 1,2,4-trifluorobenzene, pentafluorotoluene, pentafluorobenzene, and
perfluorobenzene.
                                             133

10.     The method of claim 2, wherein the medication is selected from an anesthetic, an
analgesic, an anticholinergic agent, an antihistamine, a muscle relaxant, a nonsteroidal anti
inflammatory medication, an over the counter medication, and an antidepressant medication.
11.     The method of claim 2, wherein the drug of abuse is cocaine, alcohol, caffeine,
opium, cannabinoid, cannabis, benzodiazapine carisprodol, tobacco, nicotine, Vicodin,
Lorcet, Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox.
12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the drug of abuse is cocaine and the Compound A
reduces at least one symptom of cocaine abuse and dependence in the patient selected from
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; euphoria; increased energy, excitement and
sociability; less hunger and fatigue; a marked feeling of physical and mental strength;
decreased sensation of pain; bronchitis; shortness of breath; chest pain; heart palpitations;
arrhythmia; cardiomyopathy; heart attack; dilated pupils; nausea; vomiting; headache;
vertigo; dizziness; anxiety; pychosis; confusion; nasal irritation; nasal crusting; recurrent
nosebleeds; nasal stuffiness; facial pain; dysphoria; and craving for cocaine.
13.     The method of claim 11, wherein the drug of abuse is cocaine and the Compound A
increases at least one negative subjective symptom of cocaine abuse and dependence.
14.     The method of claim 11, wherein the drug of abuse is cocaine and the Compound A
reduces at least one symptom of cocaine withdrawal selected from fatigue, lack of pleasure,
depression, irritability, sleep disorders, increased appetite, pyschomotor retardation, agitation,
extreme suspicion, and craving for cocaine.
15.     The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from a selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), a
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI), a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor
(NDRI), a serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5HT1A) antagonist, a dopamine P-hydroxylase
inhibitor, an adenosine receptor antagonist, an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, a
monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), a monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, a sodium channel
blocker, a calcium channel blocker, a central and peripheral alpha adrenergic receptor
antagonist, a central alpha adrenergic agonist, a central or peripheral beta adrenergic receptor
antagonist, a NK-1 receptor antagonist, a corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) antagonist, an
atypical antidepressant/antipsychotic, a tricyclic, an anticonvulsant, a glutamate antagonist, a
                                               134

gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, a GABA metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a GABA
synthesis activator, a partial dopamine D2 agonist, a dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor,
a catechol-O-methyl-transferase inhibitor, an opioid receptor antagonist, a mood stabilizer, a
direct or indirect dopamine agonist, a partial 5HT1 agonist, a serotonin 5HT2 antagonist, an
opioid, a carboxylase inhibitor, a partial opioid agonist, a partial nicotinic agonist, and an
inhalant.
16.     The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from benzodiazepine,
levodopa, carisprodol, modafenil, acamprosate, gamma-butyrolactone, gamma
hydroxybutyrate, opium, psilopcybin, hallucinogenic mushroom, tobacco, and nicotine.
17.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Compound A is administered to the patient after a
18.     A method of treating at least one phase of substance dependence on at least one
substance in a patient, wherein the at least one phase of substance dependence is selected
from acquisition, maintenance, extinction, and relapse, comprising administering to the
patient a therapeutically effective amount of Compound A.
19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the Compound A inhibits the development of the
acquisition phase in the patient.
20.     The method of claim 18, wherein the Compound A promotes the development of the
extinction phase in the patient.
21.     The method of claim 18, wherein the Compound A reduces the frequency of relapse
in the patient.
22.     The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one substance is selected from a drug of
abuse and a medication.
23.     The method of claim 22, wherein the drug of abuse is selected from a psychostimulant
agent, an opioid, a hallucinogen, an inhalant, a sedative, a tranquilizer, a hypnotic, an
anxiolytic, and an illicit substance.
24.     The method of claim 23, wherein the psychostimulant agent is a beta
phenylisopropylamine derivative.
                                              135

25.     The method of claim 24, wherein the beta-phenylisopropylamine derivative is
selected from amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, and methamphetamine.
26.     The method of claim 23, wherein the psychostimulant agent is selected from ecstasy,
phenmetrazine, methylphenidate, diethylpropion, pemoline, mazindol, (-) cathione, and
fenfluramine.
27.     The method of claim 23, wherein the opioid is selected from Lortab, Tramadol,
heroin, methadone, hydrocodone, and oxycodone.
28.     The method of claim 23, wherein the hallucinogen is selected from psilocybin, a
hallucinogenic mushroom, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), phencyclidine (PCP), and
ketamine.
29.     The method of claim 23, wherein the inhalant is selected from benzene, toluene, o
xylene, m-xylene, p-xylene, ethylbenzene, fluorobenzene, o-difluorobenzene, 1,3,5
triflurobenzene, 1,2,4-trifluorobenzene, pentafluorotoluene, pentafluorobenzene, and
perfluorobenzene.
30.     The method of claim 22, wherein the medication is selected from an anesthetic, an
analgesic, an anticholinergic agent, an antihistamine, a muscle relaxant, a nonsteroidal anti
inflammatory medication, an over the counter medication, and an antidepressant medication.
31.     The method of claim 22, wherein the drug of abuse is alcohol, caffeine, opium,
cannabinoid, cannabis, benzodiazapine, carisprodol, tobacco, nicotine, Vicodin, Lorcet,
Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox.
32.     The method of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from a selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), a
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI), a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor
(NDRI), a serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5HT1A) antagonist, a dopamine P-hydroxylase
inhibitor, an adenosine receptor antagonist, an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, a
monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), a monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, a sodium channel
blocker, a calcium channel blocker, a central and peripheral alpha adrenergic receptor
antagonist, a central alpha adrenergic agonist, a central or peripheral beta adrenergic receptor
antagonist, a NK-1 receptor antagonist, a corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) antagonist, an
                                             136

atypical antidepressant/antipsychotic, a tricyclic, an anticonvulsant, a glutamate antagonist, a
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, a GABA metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a GABA
synthesis activator, a partial dopamine D2 agonist, a dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor,
a catechol-O-methyl-transferase inhibitor, an opioid receptor antagonist, a mood stabilizer, a
direct or indirect dopamine agonist, a partial 5HT1 agonist, a serotonin 5HT2 antagonist, an
opioid, a carboxylase inhibitor, a partial opioid agonist, a partial nicotinic agonist, and an
inhalant.
33.      A method of treating at least one phase of cocaine dependence in a patient, wherein
the at least one phase is selected from acquisition, maintenance, extinction, and relapse,
comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of Compound A.
34.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A inhibits the development of the
acquisition phase in the patient.
35.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A promotes development of the
extinction phase in the patient.
36.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A reduces the frequency of relapse
in the patient.
37.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A reduces in the patient at least one
symptom of abuse of, dependence on, or withdrawal from cocaine.
38.      The method of claim 37, wherein the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of
cocaine abuse in the patient selected from recurrent cocaine use resulting in a failure to fulfill
major role obligations at work, school, or home; recurrent cocaine use in situations in which
it is physically hazardous; recurrent cocaine-related legal problems; and continued cocaine
use despite having persistent or recurrent social or interpersonal problems caused or
exacerbated by the effects of the cocaine.
39.      The method of claim 37, wherein the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of
cocaine dependence in the patient selected from tolerance; withdrawal; the cocaine is often
taken in larger amounts or over a longer period then was intended; there is a persistent desire
or unsuccessful efforts to cut down or control cocaine use; a great deal of time is spent in
activities to obtain the cocaine, use the cocaine, or recover from its effects; important social,
occupational or recreational activities are given up or reduced because of cocaine use; and the
                                              137

cocaine use is continued despite knowledge of having a persistent or recurrent physical or
psychological problem that is likely to have been caused or exacerbated by the cocaine.
40.      The method of claim 37, wherein the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of
cocaine abuse and dependence selected from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder;
euphoria; increased energy, excitement and sociability; less hunger and fatigue; a marked
feeling of physical and mental strength; decreased sensation of pain; bronchitis; shortness of
breath; chest pain; heart palpitations; arrhythmia; cardiomyopathy; heart attack; dilated
pupils; nausea; vomiting; headache; vertigo; dizziness; anxiety; pychosis; confusion; nasal
irritation; nasal crusting; recurrent nosebleeds; nasal stuffiness; facial pain; dysphoria; and
craving for cocaine.
41.      The method of claim 37, wherein the Compound A increases at least one negative
subjective symptom of cocaine abuse and dependence.
42.      The method of claim 37, wherein the Compound A reduces at least one symptom of
cocaine withdrawal selected from fatigue, lack of pleasure, depression, irritability, sleep
disorders, increased appetite, pyschomotor retardation, agitation, extreme suspicion, and
craving for cocaine.
43.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A improves a score of the patient on
at least one of ADHD-IV, HAM-D, HAM-A, BDI, apathy scale from Neuropsychiatric
Inventory, and a cognitive function rating scale.
44.      The method of claim 43, wherein the cognitive function rating scale is selected from
WAIS-R, WMS-R, RAVLT, Trials I-VII, RCFT, and TMT, Parts A and B.
45.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A reduces at least one of the amount
and frequency of cocaine use by the patient.
46.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A promotes remission in the patient.
47.      The method of claim 46, wherein the remission is characterized by at least one of
early full remission, early partial remission, sustained full remission, and sustained partial
remission.
48.      The method of claim 33, wherein the Compound A prolongs a period of remission in
the patient.
                                              138

49.     The method of claim 33, wherein the method further comprises treatment with at least
one of contingency management and cognitive behavioral therapy.
50.     The method of claim 33, wherein the method further comprises co-administering a
therapeutically effective amount of least one other agent selected from a selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), a
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI), a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor
(NDRI), a serotonin 5-hydroxytryptaminelA (5HTlA) antagonist, a dopamine            p-hydroxylase
inhibitor, an adenosine receptor antagonist, an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, a
monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), a monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, a sodium channel
blocker, a calcium channel blocker, a central and peripheral alpha adrenergic receptor
antagonist, a central alpha adrenergic agonist, a central or peripheral beta adrenergic receptor
antagonist, a NK-1 receptor antagonist, a corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) antagonist, an
atypical antidepressant/antipsychotic, a tricyclic, an anticonvulsant, a glutamate antagonist, a
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, a GABA metabolism enzyme inhibitor, a GABA
synthesis activator, a partial dopamine D2 agonist, a dopamine metabolism enzyme inhibitor,
a catechol-O-methyl-transferase inhibitor, an opioid receptor antagonist, a mood stabilizer, a
direct or indirect dopamine agonist, a partial 5HT1 agonist, a serotonin 5HT2 antagonist, an
opioid, a carboxylase inhibitor, a partial opioid agonist, a partial nicotinic agonist, and an
inhalant.
                                    Biotie Therapies, Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                              139

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
