ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        Rinse aid compositions, methods of use, and methods of making said composition are
disclosed. The rinse aid compositions can be solid or liquid. The rinse aid compositions
comprise a defoamer, a sheeting agent, and a terpolyer of of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl
acrylate. Preferred sheeting agents include one or more alcohol ethyoxylates. Preferred
defoamer components include a polymer compound including one or more ethylene oxide
groups. The solid rinse aid compositions are preferably substantially free of sulfate and
sulfate-containing compounds.

TITLE:           RINSE AID COMPOSITION COMPRISING A TERPOLYMER OF
                 MALEIC, VINYL ACETATE AND ETHYL ACRYLATE
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 62/100,517 filed
on January 7, 2015, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
The present application is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, the entire specification of which is
incorporated herein by cross-reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The invention relates to rinse aids. In particular, rinse aid compositions comprising a
defoamer, sheeting agent, and a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         Mechanical warewashing machines including dishwashers have been common in the
institutional and household environments for many years. Such automatic warewashing
machines clean dishes using two or more cycles which can include initially a wash cycle
followed by a rinse cycle. Such automatic warewashing machines can also utilize other
cycles, for example, a soak cycle, a pre-wash cycle, a scrape cycle, additional wash cycles,
additional rinse cycles, a sanitizing cycle, and/or a drying cycle. Any of these cycles can be
repeated, if desired and additional cycles can be used. Rinse aids are conventionally used in
warewashing applications to promote drying and to prevent the formation of spots on the
ware being washed.
         In order to reduce the formation of spotting, rinse agents have commonly been added
to water to form an aqueous rinse that is sprayed on the dishware after cleaning is complete.
The precise mechanism through which rinse agents work is not established. One theory holds
that the surfactant in the rinse agent is absorbed on the surface at temperatures at or above its
cloud point, and thereby reduces the solid-liquid interfacial energy and contact angle. This
leads to the formation of a continuous sheet which drains evenly from the surface and
minimizes the formation of spots. Generally, high foaming surfactants have cloud points
above the temperature of the rinse water, and, according to this theory, would not promote
sheet formation, thereby resulting in spots. Moreover, high foaming materials are known to
interfere with the operation of warewashing machines.
                                             1

            In some cases, defoaming agents have been used in an attempt to promote the use
   of high foaming surfactants in rinse aids. In theory, the defoaming agents can include
   surfactants with a cloud point at or below the temperature of the rinse water, and would
   thereby precipitate out and modify the air/liquid interface and destabilize the presence of
 5 foam that may be created by the high foaming surfactants in the rinse water. However, in
   many cases, it has been difficult to provide suitable combinations of high foaming
   surfactants and defoamers to achieve desired results. For example, for certain high
   foaming surfactants, it has often been necessary to provide defoaming agents that are
   chemically quite complicated. For example, Published International Patent Application
10 No. W089/11525 discloses an ethoxylate defoamer agent that is capped with an alkyl
   residue.
            A number of rinse aids are currently known, each having certain advantages and
   disadvantages. There is an ongoing need for alternative rinse aid compositions, especially
   alternative rinse aid compositions that are environmentally friendly (e.g., biodegradable),
15 and that essentially include components that are suitable for use in food service industries,
   e.g. GRAS ingredients (generally recognized as safe by the USFDA, partial listing
   available at 21 C.F.R. §§ 184).
            In order to reduce the formation of spotting, rinse aids have commonly been added
   to water to form an aqueous rinse that is sprayed on the ware after cleaning is complete. A
20 number of rinse aids are currently known, each having certain advantages and
   disadvantages. There is an ongoing need for alternative rinse aid compositions.
            Objects, advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent
   from the following specification taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
            While multiple embodiments are disclosed, still other embodiments of the present
25 invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed
   description, which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention.
   Accordingly, the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in
   nature and not restrictive.
30 BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            A solid rinse aid composition, methods of use, and methods of making said
   composition are disclosed. The solid rinse aid compositions provide improved rinsing
   properties and compositions that are considered GRAS.
                                                  2

           An embodiment of the invention is a rinse aid composition comprising a defoamer,
   a sheeting agent, and a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate. The rinse
   aid compositions can be in solid or liquid form.
           In an embodiment of the invention, the rinse aid composition is a liquid and
 5 comprises: a defoamer present in an amount between about 0.01 wt.% and about 60 wt.%
   of the composition, a sheeting agent present in an amount between about 0.01 wt.% and
   about 60 wt.% of the composition, a solidification agent present in an amount between
   about 10 wt.% and about 80 wt.%, a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate
   present between about 0.01 wt.% and about 35 wt.% of the composition, and water present
10 in an amount between about 0 wt.% and about 98 wt.%.
           In an embodiment of the invention, the rinse aid composition is a solid and
   comprises: a defoamer present in an amount between about 0.01 wt.% and about 60 wt.%
   of the composition, a sheeting agent present in an amount between about 0.01 wt.% and
   about 45 wt.% of the composition, a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate
15 present between about 0.01 wt.% and about 40 wt.% of the composition.
           Embodiment of this invention also include methods for making the rinse aid
   compositions and methods of using the rinse aid compositions.
           The solid rinse aid compositions are preferably substantially free of sulfate and
   sulfate-containing compounds.
20
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
           FIG. 1 shows a graph of the total light box scores of the three different
   formulations. The values shown are the sum of six independent measurements for glass,
   one independent measurement for plastic, and the sum of the glass and plastic
25 measurements for the combined representation.
           Various embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with
   reference to the figures, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts throughout
   the several views. Reference to various embodiments does not limit the scope of the
   invention. Figures represented herein are not limitations to the various embodiments
30 according to the invention and are presented for exemplary illustration of the invention.
                                                  3

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
            The present invention relates to rinse aid compositions. The rinse aid compositions
   have many advantages over existing rinse aids. For example, they provide improved
   rinsing properties and compositions that are considered GRAS.
 5          The embodiments of this invention are not limited to use with particular detergents
   or cleaning apparatuses, which can vary and are understood by skilled artisans. It is
   further to be understood that all terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing
   particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting in any manner or scope.
   For example, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a,"
10 "an" and "the" can include plural referents unless the content clearly indicates otherwise.
   Further, all units, prefixes, and symbols may be denoted in its SI accepted form.
            Numeric ranges recited within the specification are inclusive of the numbers
   defining the range and include each integer within the defined range. Throughout this
   disclosure, various aspects of this invention are presented in a range format. It should be
15 understood that the description in range format is merely for convenience and brevity and
   should not be construed as an inflexible limitation on the scope of the invention.
   Accordingly, the description of a range should be considered to have specifically disclosed
   all the possible sub-ranges as well as individual numerical values within that range. For
   example, description of a range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have
20 specifically disclosed sub-ranges such as from 1 to 3, from 1 to 4, from 1 to 5, from 2 to 4,
   from 2 to 6, from 3 to 6 etc., as well as individual numbers within that range, for example,
   1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. This applies regardless of the breadth of the range.
            So that the present invention may be more readily understood, certain terms are
   first defined. Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
25 the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which
   embodiments of the invention pertain. Many methods and materials similar, modified, or
   equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice of the embodiments of the
   present invention without undue experimentation, the preferred materials and methods are
   described herein. In describing and claiming the embodiments of the present invention,
30 the following terminology will be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.
            The term "about," as used herein, refers to variation in the numerical quantity that
   can occur, for example, through typical measuring and liquid handling procedures used for
   making concentrates or use solutions in the real world; through inadvertent error in these
   procedures; through differences in the manufacture, source, or purity of the ingredients
                                                   4

   used to make the compositions or carry out the methods; and the like. The term "about"
   also encompasses amounts that differ due to different equilibrium conditions for a
   composition resulting from a particular initial mixture. Whether or not modified by the
   term "about", the claims include equivalents to the quantities.
 5          The term "actives" or "percent actives" or "percent by weight actives" or "actives
   concentration" are used interchangeably herein and refers to the concentration of those
   ingredients involved in cleaning expressed as a percentage minus inert ingredients such as
   water or salts.
            As used herein, the term "alkyl" or "alkyl groups" refers to saturated hydrocarbons
10 having one or more carbon atoms, including straight-chain alkyl groups (e.g., methyl,
   ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, etc.), cyclic alkyl groups (or
   "cycloalkyl" or "alicyclic" or "carbocyclic" groups) (e.g., cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl,
   cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, etc.), branched-chain alkyl groups (e.g., isopropyl,
   tert-butyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl, propyheptyl, etc.), and alkyl-substituted alkyl groups (e.g.,
15 alkyl-substituted cycloalkyl groups and cycloalkyl- substituted alkyl groups).
            Unless otherwise specified, the term "alkyl" includes both "unsubstituted alkyls"
   and "substituted alkyls." As used herein, the term "substituted alkyls" refers to alkyl
   groups having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more carbons of the
   hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents can include, for example, alkenyl, alkynyl,
20 halogeno, hydroxyl, alkylcarbonyloxy, arylcarbonyloxy, alkoxycarbonyloxy, aryloxy,
   aryloxycarbonyloxy, carboxylate, alkylcarbonyl, arylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
   aminocarbonyl, alkylaminocarbonyl, dialkylaminocarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl, alkoxyl,
   phosphate, phosphonato, phosphinato, cyano, amino (including alkyl amino, dialkylamino,
   arylamino, diarylamino, and alkylarylamino), acylamino (including alkylcarbonylamino,
25 arylcarbonylamino, carbamoyl and ureido), imino, sulfhydryl, alkylthio, arylthio,
   thiocarboxylate, sulfates, alkylsulfinyl, sulfonates, sulfamoyl, sulfonamido, nitro,
   trifluoromethyl, cyano, azido, heterocyclic, alkylaryl, or aromatic (including
   heteroaromatic) groups.
            In some embodiments, substituted alkyls can include a heterocyclic group. As
30 used herein, the term "heterocyclic group" includes closed ring structures analogous to
   carbocyclic groups in which one or more of the carbon atoms in the ring is an element
   other than carbon, for example, nitrogen, sulfur or oxygen. Heterocyclic groups can be
   saturated or unsaturated. Exemplary heterocyclic groups include, but are not limited to,
   aziridine, ethylene oxide (epoxides, oxiranes), thiirane (episulfides), dioxirane, azetidine,
                                                   5

   oxetane, thietane, dioxetane, dithietane, dithiete, azolidine, pyrrolidine, pyrroline, oxolane,
   dihydrofuran, and furan.
           An "antiredeposition agent" refers to a compound that helps keep suspended in
   water instead of redepositing onto the object being cleaned. Antiredeposition agents are
 5 useful in the present invention to assist in reducing redepositing of the removed soil onto
   the surface being cleaned.
           As used herein, the term "cleaning" refers to a method used to facilitate or aid in
   soil removal, bleaching, microbial population reduction, and any combination thereof. As
   used herein, the term "microorganism" refers to any noncellular or unicellular (including
10 colonial) organism. Microorganisms include all prokaryotes. Microorganisms include
   bacteria (including cyanobacteria), spores, lichens, fungi, protozoa, virinos, viroids,
   viruses, phages, and some algae. As used herein, the term "microbe" is synonymous with
   microorganism.
           As used herein, the phrase "food processing surface" refers to a surface of a tool, a
15 machine, equipment, a structure, a building, or the like that is employed as part of a food
   processing, preparation, or storage activity. Examples of food processing surfaces include
   surfaces of food processing or preparation equipment (e.g., slicing, canning, or transport
   equipment, including flumes), of food processing wares (e.g., utensils, dishware, wash
   ware, and bar glasses), and of floors, walls, or fixtures of structures in which food
20 processing occurs. Food processing surfaces are found and employed in food anti
   spoilage air circulation systems, aseptic packaging sanitizing, food refrigeration and cooler
   cleaners and sanitizers, ware washing sanitizing, blancher cleaning and sanitizing, food
   packaging materials, cutting board additives, third-sink sanitizing, beverage chillers and
   warmers, meat chilling or scalding waters, autodish sanitizers, sanitizing gels, cooling
25 towers, food processing antimicrobial garment sprays, and non-to-low-aqueous food
   preparation lubricants, oils, and rinse additives.
           The term "generally recognized as safe" or "GRAS," as used herein refers to
   components classified by the Food and Drug Administration as safe for direct human food
   consumption or as an ingredient based upon current good manufacturing practice
30 conditions of use, as defined for example in 21 C.F.R. Chapter 1, §170.38 and/or 570.38.
           The term "hard surface" refers to a solid, substantially non-flexible surface such as
   a counter top, tile, floor, wall, panel, window, plumbing fixture, kitchen and bathroom
   furniture, appliance, engine, circuit board, and dish. Hard surfaces can include for
   example, health care surfaces and food processing surfaces.
                                                   6

            As used herein, the term "phosphorus-free" or "substantially phosphorus-free"
   refers to a composition, mixture, or ingredient that does not contain phosphorus or a
   phosphorus-containing compound or to which phosphorus or a phosphorus-containing
   compound has not been added. Should phosphorus or a phosphorus-containing compound
 5 be present through contamination of a phosphorus-free composition, mixture, or
   ingredients, the amount of phosphorus shall be less than 0.5 wt-%. More preferably, the
   amount of phosphorus is less than 0.1 wt-%, and most preferably the amount of
   phosphorus is less than 0.01 wt-%.
            As used herein, the term "polymer" generally includes, but is not limited to,
10 homopolymers, copolymers, such as for example, block, graft, random and alternating
   copolymers, terpolymers, and higher "x"mers, further including their derivatives,
   combinations, and blends thereof. Furthermore, unless otherwise specifically limited, the
   term "polymer" shall include all possible isomeric configurations of the molecule,
   including, but are not limited to isotactic, syndiotactic and random symmetries, and
15 combinations thereof. Furthermore, unless otherwise specifically limited, the term
   "polymer" shall include all possible geometrical configurations of the molecule.
            As used herein, the term "soil" or "stain" refers to a non-polar oily substance
   which may or may not contain particulate matter such as mineral clays, sand, natural
   mineral matter, carbon black, graphite, kaolin, environmental dust, etc.
20          As used herein, the term "substantially free" refers to compositions completely
   lacking the component or having such a small amount of the component that the
   component does not affect the performance of the composition. The component may be
   present as an impurity or as a contaminant and shall be less than 0.5 wt-%. In another
   embodiment, the amount of the component is less than 0.1 wt-% and in yet another
25 embodiment, the amount of component is less than 0.01 wt-%.
            The term "water conditioning agent" refers to a compound that inhibits
   crystallization of water hardness ions from solution or disperses mineral scale including
   but not limited to calcium carbonate. Water conditioning agents include but are not
   limited to polyacrylic acids, polymethacrylic acids, olefin/maleic copolymers, polyacrylate
30 alkali metal salts, polymethacrylate alkali metal salts and olefin/maleate alkali metal salts
   and the like.
            As used herein, the term "ware" refers to items such as eating and cooking utensils,
   dishes, and other hard surfaces such as showers, sinks, toilets, bathtubs, countertops,
   windows, mirrors, transportation vehicles, and floors. As used herein, the term
                                                   7

   "warewashing" refers to washing, cleaning, or rinsing ware. Ware also refers to items
   made of plastic. Types of plastics that can be cleaned with the compositions according to
   the invention include but are not limited to, those that include polycarbonate polymers
   (PC), acrilonitrile-butadiene-styrene polymers (ABS), and polysulfone polymers (PS).
 5 Another exemplary plastic that can be cleaned using the compounds and compositions of
   the invention include polyethylene terephthalate (PET).
           The terms "water soluble" and "water dispersible" as used herein, means that the
   polymer is soluble or dispersible in water in the inventive compositions. In general, the
   polymer should be soluble or dispersible at 25'C at a concentration of 0.0001% by weight
10 of the water solution and/or water carrier, preferably at 0.001%, more preferably at 0.01%
   and most preferably at 0.1%.
           The term "weight percent," "wt-%," "percent by weight," "%by weight," and
   variations thereof, as used herein, refer to the concentration of a substance as the weight of
   that substance divided by the total weight of the composition and multiplied by 100. It is
15 understood that, as used here, "percent," "%," and the like are intended to be synonymous
   with "!weight percent," "wt-%," etc.
           The methods, systems, apparatuses, and compositions of the present invention can
   comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of the components and ingredients of the
   present invention as well as other ingredients described herein. As used herein, "consisting
20 essentially of" means that the methods, systems, apparatuses and compositions may
   include additional steps, components or ingredients, but only if the additional steps,
   components or ingredients do not materially alter the basic and novel characteristics of the
   claimed methods, systems, apparatuses, and compositions.
           It should also be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims,
25 the term "configured" describes a system, apparatus, or other structure that is constructed
   or configured to perform a particular task or adopt a particular configuration. The term
   "configured" can be used interchangeably with other similar phrases such as arranged and
   configured, constructed and arranged, adapted and configured, adapted, constructed,
   manufactured and arranged, and the like.
30         Compositions
           The rinse aid compositions include a defoamer component, a sheeting agent, and a
   terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts
   thereof. In some embodiments, the rinse aid compositions can include a
   hydroxycarboxylic acid, a preservative, and water. Additional functional ingredients can
                                                   8

   be added to the composition to achieve desired properties and suitable for particular uses.
   The rinse aid compositions are substantially free of sulfates and/or sulfate containing
   compounds. In a preferred embodiment the rinse aid compositions do not contain any
   sulfates and/or sulfate containing compounds, except in trivial amounts as a contaminant.
 5         In an aspect, the compositions can include from about 0.01 wt-% to about 60 wt-%
   defoamer, from about 0.01 wt-% to about 40 wt-% a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate,
   and ethyl acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts thereof, and from about 0.01 wt-% to
   about 60 wt-% sheeting agent. Preferably the compositions include from about 0.5 wt-% to
   about 50 wt-% defoamer, from about 0.05 wt-% to about 20wt-% a terpolymer of maleic,
10 vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts thereof or alkali metal salts
   thereof, and from about 0.1 wt-% to about 45 wt-% sheeting agent. In a most preferred
   embodiment the compositions include from about 1 wt-% to about 35 wt-% defoamer,
   from about 0.5 wt-% to about 10 wt-% a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl
   acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts thereof, and from about 1 wt-% to about 25 wt-%
15 sheeting agent. Without being limited according to the invention, all ranges recited are
   inclusive of the numbers defining the range and include each integer within the defined
   range.
           Defoamer Component
           The rinse aid composition can also include an effective amount of defoamer
20 component configured for reducing the stability of foam that may be created by the
   alcohol ethoxylate sheeting agent in an aqueous solution. Any of a broad variety of
   suitable defoamers may be used, for example, any of a broad variety of nonionic ethylene
   oxide (EO) containing surfactants. Many nonionic ethylene oxide derivative surfactants
   are water soluble and have cloud points below the intended use temperature of the rinse
25 aid composition, and therefore may be useful defoaming agents. In addition, where the
   rinse aid composition is preferred to be biodegradable, the defoamers are also selected to
   be biodegradable.
           While not wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that suitable nonionic EO
   containing surfactants are hydrophilic and water soluble at relatively low temperatures, for
30 example, temperatures below the temperatures at which the rinse aid will be used. It is
   theorized that the EO component forms hydrogen bonds with the water molecules, thereby
   solubilizing the surfactant. However, as the temperature is increased, these hydrogen
   bonds are weakened, and the EO containing surfactant becomes less soluble, or insoluble
   in water. At some point, as the temperature is increased, the cloud point is reached, at
                                                 9

   which point the surfactant precipitates out of solution, and functions as a defoamer. The
   surfactant can therefore act to defoam the sheeting agent component when used at
   temperatures at or above this cloud point.
            The cloud point of nonionic surfactant of this class is defined as the temperature at
 5 which a 1 wt.-% aqueous solution. Therefore, the surfactant and/or surfactants chosen for
   use in the defoamer component can include those having appropriate cloud points that are
   below the intended use temperature of the rinse aid. A nonionic surfactant with an
   unacceptably high cloud point temperature or an unacceptably high molecular weight
   would either produce unacceptable foaming levels or fail to provide adequate defoaming
10 capacity in a rinse aid composition. Thus, surfactants with appropriate cloud points can be
   selected for use as defoamers based on the intended use temperature of the rinse aid.
            For example, there are two general types of rinse cycles in commercial
   warewashing machines. A first type of rinse cycle can be referred to as a hot water
   sanitizing rinse cycle because of the use of generally hot rinse water (about 1800 F). A
15 second type of rinse cycle can be referred to as a chemical sanitizing rinse cycle and it
   uses generally lower temperature rinse water (about 1200 F). A surfactant useful as a
   defoamer in these two conditions is one having a cloud point less than the rinse water
   temperature. Accordingly, in this example, the highest useful cloud point, measured using
   a 1 wt.-% aqueous solution, for the defoamer is approximately 1800 F or less. It should be
20 understood, however, that the cloud point can be lower or higher, depending on the use
   locus water temperature. For example, depending upon the use locus water temperature,
   the cloud point may be in the range of about 0 to about 1000 C. Some examples of
   common suitable cloud points may be in the range of about 50' C to about 800 C, or in the
   range of about 600 C to about 700 C.
25          Some examples of ethylene oxide derivative surfactants that may be used as
   defoamers include polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block copolymers, alcohol
   alkoxylates, low molecular weight EO containing surfactants, or the like, or derivatives
   thereof. Some examples of polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block copolymers include
   those having the following formulae:
30                                       (EO)x(PO)y(EO)x
                                         (PO)y(EO)x(PO)y
                                   (PO)y(EO)x(PO)y(EO) x(PO)      y
                                                 10

                                     (EO)x(PO)y      (PO)y(EO)x
                                               \      /
                                                N-N
 5                                             /      \
                                      (EO)x(PO)y     (PO)y(EO)x
                                     (PO)y(EO)X      (EO)X(PO)y
                                               \      /
10                                              N-N
                                               /      \
                                      (PO)y(EO)x     (EO)x(PO)y
   wherein EO represents an ethylene oxide group, PO represents a propylene oxide group,
15 and x and y reflect the average molecular proportion of each alkylene oxide monomer in
   the overall block copolymer composition. In some embodiments, x is in the range of
   about I to about 130, y is in the range of about 5 to about 70, and x plus y is in the range
   of about 5 to about 200. It should be understood that each x and y in a molecule can be
   different. In some embodiments, the total polyoxyethylene component of the block
20 copolymer can be in the range of at least about 20 mol-% of the block copolymer and in
   some embodiments, in the range of at least about 30 mol-% of the block copolymer. In
   some embodiments, the material can have a molecular weight greater than about 400, and
   in some embodiments, greater than about 500. For example, in some embodiments, the
   material can have a molecular weight in the range of about 500 to about 7000 or more, or
25 in the range of about 950 to about 4000 or more, or in the range of about 1000 to about
   3100 or more, or in the range of about 2100 to about 6700 or more.
           Although the exemplary polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block copolymer
   structures provided above have 3-8 blocks, it should be appreciated that the nonionic
   block copolymer surfactants can include more or less than 3-8 blocks. In addition, the
30 nonionic block copolymer surfactants can include additional repeating units such as
   butylene oxide repeating units. Furthermore, the nonionic block copolymer surfactants
   that can be used according to the invention can be characterized hetero-polyoxyethylene
   polyoxypropylene block copolymers. Some examples of suitable block copolymer
   surfactants include commercial products such as PLURONIC* and TETRONIC*
                                                  11

   surfactants, commercially available from BASF. For example, PLURONIC* 25-R4 is one
   example of a useful block copolymer surfactant commercially available from BASF, that
   is biodegradable and GRAS.
           Generally, embodiments of the compositions the defoamer component can
 5 comprise in the range of 0.01 to about 60 wt.-% of the total composition, in some
   embodiments in the range of about 0.5 to about 50 wt.-% of the total composition, in some
   embodiments in the range of about 1 to about 35 wt.-% of the total composition.
           In solid embodiments, the defoamer component can comprise in the range of 1 to
   about 60 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 3 to
10 about 50 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 5 to
   about 35 wt.-% of the total composition.
           In liquid embodiments, the defoamer component can comprise in the range of 0.1
   to about 60 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 0.5
   to about 40 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 1
15 to about 20 wt.-% of the total composition.
           The amount of defoamer component present in the composition can also be
   dependent upon the amount of sheeting agent present in the composition. For example,
   the less sheeting agent present in the composition may provide for the use of less
   defoamer component. In some example embodiments, the ratio of weight-percent
20 sheeting agent component to weight-percent defoamer component may be in the range of
   about 1:5 to about 5:1, or in the range of about 1:3 to about 3:1. Those of skill in the art
   will recognize that the ratio of sheeting agent component to defoamer component may be
   dependent on the properties of either and/or both actual components used, and these ratios
   may vary from the example ranges given to achieve the desired defoaming effect.
25 Defoamer components are also described in U.S. Patent No. 7,279,455, assigned to
   Ecolab, herein incorporated by reference.
           Hydroxycarboxylic Acid
           The rinse aid composition can also include a hydroxycarboxylic acid or salt of
   thereof. Suitable hydroxycarboxylic acids and their salts for use in the rinse aid
30 compositions include, citric, lactic, gluconic and acetic acids and combinations and/or
   alkali metal salts thereof. The hydroxycarboxylic acids or alkali metal salts thereof may
   be added to or be present in the composition in either the anhydrous or hydrated form or
   combinations thereof. When a hydroxycarboxylic acid is included in the rinse aid
                                                  12

   compositions, it can be present from about 0.1 to about 20 wt.%; preferably from about 1
   to about 18 wt.%; more preferably from about 5 to about 15 wt.%; and even more
   preferably from about 8 to about 12 wt.%.
           Preservative
 5         The rinse aid composition can also include effective amount of a preservative.
   Often, overall acidity and/or acids in the rinse aid composition can provide a preservative
   and stabilizing function. Some embodiments of the inventive rinse aid composition also
   include a GRAS preservative system for acidification of the rinse aid including sodium
   bisulfate and organic acids. In at least some embodiments, the rinse aid has pH of 2.0 or
10 less and the use solution of the rinse aid has a pH-of at least pH-4.0. In some embodiments,
   sodium bisulfate is included in the rinse aid composition as an acid source. In other
   embodiments, an effective amount of sodium bisulfate and one or more other acids are
   included in the rinse aid composition as a preservative system. Suitable acids include for
   example, inorganic acids, such as HCI and organic acids. In certain further embodiments,
15 an effective amount of sodium bisulfate and one or more organic acids are included in the
   rinse aid composition as a preservative system. Suitable organic acids include sorbic acid,
   benzoic acid, ascorjic acid, erythorbic acid, citric acid, etc. Preferred organic acids include
   benzoic and ascorbic acid. Generally, effective amounts of sodium bisulfate with or
   without additional acids are included such that a use solution of the rinse aid composition
20 has a pH that shall be less than pH 4.0, often less pH 3.0, and may be even less than pH
   2.0.
           Preferred preservatives for use in the rinse aid compositions include,
   methylchloroisothiazolinone, methylisothiazolinone, or a blend of the same. A blend of
   methylchloroisothiazolinone and methylisothiazolinone is available from Dow Chemical
25 under the trade name KATHONTM CG. Additional preferred preservatives include salts of
   pyrithione, including, for example sodium pyrithione.
           When a preservative is included in the rinse aid compositions, it can be present
   from about 0.01 to about 10 wt.%; preferably from about 0.05 to about 5 wt.%; more
   preferably from about 0.1 to about 2 wt.%; and even more preferably from about 0.1 to
30 about 1 wt.%.
           Sheeting Agent
           The rinse aid composition includes sheeting agent. The sheeting agent of the rinse
   aid composition includes an effective amount of one or more alcohol ethoxylate
                                                  13

   compounds. Typically, the sheeting agent of the rinse aid composition includes an
   effective amount of one or more alcohol ethoxylate compounds that include an alkyl
   group that has 20 or fewer carbon atoms. Typically, the blend of one or more alcohol
   ethoxylate compounds in the sheeting agent is a solid at room temperature, for example by
 5 having a melting point equal to or greater than 100 'F, often greater than 1100 F, and
   frequently in the range of 110' F to 1200 F. In at least some embodiments, alcohol
   ethoxylate compounds may each independently have structure represented by Formula I:
                                      R-O-(CH 2CH 20),-H               (I)
10
   wherein R is a linear or branched (C 1 -C18 ) alkyl group and n is an integer in the range of 1
   to 100. In some embodiments, R may be a linear or branched (Cs-C 15 ) alkyl group, or may
   be a (Cs-Cio) alkyl group. Similarly, in some embodiments, n is an integer in the range of
   I to 50, or in the range of 1 to 35, or in the range of I to 25. In some embodiments, the one
15 or more alcohol ethoxylate compounds are straight chain hydrophobes.
           In at least some embodiments, the sheeting agent includes at least two different
   alcohol ethoxylate compounds each having structure represented by Formula I. In other
   words, the R and/or n variables of Formula I, or both, may be different in the two or more
   different alcohol ethoxylate compounds present in the sheeting agent. For example, the
20 sheeting agent in some embodiments may include a first alcohol ethoxylate compound in
   which R is a linear or branched (Cs-Cio) alkyl group, and a second alcohol ethoxylate
   compound in which R is a linear or branched (Cio-C 12 ) alkyl group.
           In some embodiments where, for example, the sheeting agent includes at least two
   different alcohol ethoxylate compounds, the ratio of the different alcohol ethoxylate
25 compounds can be varied to achieve the desired characteristics of the final composition.
   For example, in some embodiments including a first alcohol ethoxylate compound and a
   second alcohol ethoxylate compound, the ratio of weight-percent first alcohol ethoxylate
   compound to weight-percent second compound may be in the range of about 1:1 to about
   10:1 or more. For example, in some embodiments, the sheeting agent can include in the
30 range of about 50 weight percent or more of the first compound, and in the range of about
   50 weight percent or less of the second compound, and/or in the range of about 75 weight
   percent or more of the first compound, and in the range of about 25 weight percent or less
   of the second compound, and/or in the range of about 85 weight percent or more of the
   first compound, and in the range of about 15 weight percent or less of the second
                                                    14

   compound. Similarly, the range of mole ratio of the first compound to the second
   compound may be about 1:1 to about 10:1, and in some embodiments, in the range of
   about 3:1 to about 9:1.
           In some embodiments, the alcohol ethoxylates used in the sheeting agent can be
 5 chosen such that they have certain characteristics, for example, are environmentally
   friendly, are suitable for use in food service industries, and/or the like. For example, the
   particular alcohol ethoxylates used in the sheeting agent may meet environmental or food
   service regulatory requirements, for example, biodegradability requirements.
           Some specific examples of suitable sheeting agents that may be used include an
10 alcohol ethoxylate combination including a first alcohol ethoxylate wherein R is a linear
   or branched CIO alkyl group and n is 21 (i.e. 21moles ethylene oxide) and a second alcohol
   ethoxylate wherein R is a C 12 alkyl group and again, n is 21 (i.e. 21 moles ethylene oxide).
   Such a combination can be referred to as an alcohol ethoxylate Cio- 12 , 21 moles EO. In
   some particular embodiments, the sheeting agent may include in the range of about 85 wt.
15 % or more of the CIO alcohol ethoxylate and about 15 wt. % or less of the C 12 alcohol
   ethoxylate. For example, the sheeting agent may include in the range of about 90 wt. % of
   the CIO alcohol ethoxylate and about 10 wt. % of the C 12 alcohol ethoxylate. One example
   of such an alcohol ethoxylate mixture is commercially available from Sasol under the
   trade name NOVEL 111012-21. Alcohol ethoxylate surfactants are also described in U.S.
20 Pat. No. 7,279,455, assigned to Ecolab, herein incorporated by reference.
           In embodiments, the sheeting agent can comprise a broad range of weight percent
   of the entire composition, depending upon the desired properties. Generally, embodiments
   of the compositions the sheeting agent can comprise in the range of 0.01 to about 60 wt.
   % of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 0.1 to about 45
25 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 1 to about 25
   wt.-% of the total composition.
           In solid embodiments, the sheeting agent can comprise in the range of 1 to about
   45 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 1 to about
   35 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 1 to about
30 25 wt.-% of the total composition.
           In concentrated liquid embodiments, the sheeting agent can comprise in the range
   of 0.01 to about 60 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of
   about 0.1 to about 45 wt.-% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range
   of about 1 to about 25 wt.-% of the total composition.
                                                  15

           Terpolymer
           The rinse aid compositions include a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl
   acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts thereof. Exemplary terpolymers are sold under the
   name Belclene 810 by BWA Water Additives. The terpolymer or alkali metal salt thereof
 5 may be added to the rinse aid composition as an aqueous solution, powder, granular, solid
   or paste.
           Generally, embodiments of the compositions the terpolymer can comprise in the
   range of 0.01 to about 40 wt.% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the
   range of about 0.05 to about 20 wt.% of the total composition, in some embodiments in
10 the range of about 0.5 to about 10 wt.% of the total composition.
           In solid embodiments, the terpolymer can comprise in the range of 0.01 to about
   40 wt.% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 0.1 to about
   20 wt.% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of about 1 to about
   10 wt.% of the total composition.
15         In concentrated liquid embodiments, the terpolymer can comprise in the range of
   0.01 to about 35 wt.% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range of
   about 0.05 to about 25 wt.% of the total composition, in some embodiments in the range
   of about 0.5 to about 10 wt.% of the total composition.
           Water
20         The rinse aid can include water, in both liquid and solid rinse aid formulations.
   Water can be independently added to the rinse aid composition or can be provided in the
   rinse aid composition as a result of its presence in an aqueous material that is added to the
   rinse aid composition. For example, materials added to the rinse aid composition include
   water or can be prepared in an aqueous premix available for reaction with a solidification
25 agent. In a preferred embodiment, the water can be provided as deionized water or as
   softened water.
           In solid embodiments, water is typically introduced into the rinse aid composition
   to provide the detergent composition with a desired viscosity prior to solidification, and/or
   to provide a desired rate of solidification, and/or as a processing aid. Water introduced in
30 the rinse aid composition during formation of a solid rinse aid composition can be
   removed or become water of hydration. The components used to form a solid
   composition can include water as hydrates or hydrated forms of the solidification agent,
   hydrates or hydrated forms of any of the other ingredients, and/or added aqueous medium
                                                  16

   as an aid in processing. It is expected that the aqueous medium will help provide the
   components with a desired viscosity for processing. In addition, it is expected that the
   aqueous medium may help in the solidification process when forming the rinse aid
   compositions.
 5          In solid embodiments of the rinse aid composition, the amount of water can be in
   the range of about 0 to about 20 wt. %, often in the range of about 1 to about 14 wt. %, but
   can be about 3 to about 10 wt. % water, or about 10 to about 15 wt. %water.
            In liquid embodiments of the rinse aid composition, the amount of water can be in
   the range of about 0 wt.% to about 98 wt. %, often in the range of about 35 wt. % to about
10 95 wt. %, or about 60 wt. %to about 92 wt.%.
            Additional Functional Ingredients
            In embodiments of the invention, additional functional ingredients can be included
   in the rinse aid compositions. The functional ingredients provide desired properties and
   functionalities to the compositions. For the purpose of this application, the term
15 "functional ingredient" includes a material that provides a beneficial property in a
   particular use. Some particular examples of functional materials are discussed in more
   detail below, although the particular materials discussed are given by way of example
   only, and that a broad variety of other functional ingredients may be used. For example,
   many of the functional materials discussed below relate to materials used in cleaning,
20 specifically ware wash applications. However, other embodiments may include functional
   ingredients for use in other applications. Examples of such a functional material include
   chelating/sequestering agents; bleaching agents or activators; sanitizers/anti-microbial
   agents; activators; builder or fillers; anti-redeposition agents; optical brighteners; dyes;
   odorants or perfumes; preservatives; stabilizers; processing aids; corrosion inhibitors;
25 fillers; solidifiers; hardening agent; solubility modifiers; pH adjusting agents; humectants;
   hydrotropes; or a broad variety of other functional materials, depending upon the desired
   characteristics and/or functionality of the composition. In the context of some
   embodiments disclosed herein, the functional materials, or ingredients, are optionally
   included within the rinse aids for their functional properties. Some more particular
30 examples of functional materials are discussed in more detail below, but it should be
   understood by those of skill in the art and others that the particular materials discussed are
   given by way of example only, and that a broad variety of other functional materials may
   be used.
                                                    17

            Activators
            In some embodiments, the antimicrobial activity or bleaching activity of the rinse
   aid can be enhanced by the addition of a material which, when the composition is placed
   in use, reacts with the active oxygen to form an activated component. For example, in
 5 some embodiments, a peracid or a peracid salt is formed. For example, in some
   embodiments, tetraacetylethylene diamine can be included within the composition to react
   with the active oxygen and form a peracid or a peracid salt that acts as an antimicrobial
   agent. Other examples of active oxygen activators include transition metals and their
   compounds, compounds that contain a carboxylic, nitrile, or ester moiety, or other such
10 compounds known in the art. In an embodiment, the activator includes tetraacetylethylene
   diamine; transition metal; compound that includes carboxylic, nitrile, amine, or ester
   moiety; or mixtures thereof.
            In some embodiments, an activator component can include in the range of up to
   about 75 % by wt. of the composition, in some embodiments, in the range of about 0.01 to
15 about 20% by wt., or in some embodiments, in the range of about 0.05 to 10% by wt. of
   the composition. In some embodiments, an activator for an active oxygen compound
   combines with the active oxygen to form an antimicrobial agent.
            In some embodiments, the rinse aid composition includes a solid, such as a solid
   flake, pellet, or block, and an activator material for the active oxygen is coupled to the
20 solid. The activator can be coupled to the solid by any of a variety of methods for
   coupling one solid cleaning composition to another. For example, the activator can be in
   the form of a solid that is bound, affixed, glued or otherwise adhered to the solid of the
   rinse aid composition. Alternatively, the solid activator can be formed around and
   encasing the rinse aid composition. By way of further example, the solid activator can be
25 coupled to the rinse aid composition by the container or package for the composition, such
   as by a plastic or shrink wrap or film.
            Additional Sheeting Aids
            The rinse aid compositions can optionally include one or more additional rinse aid
   components, for example, an additional wetting or sheeting agent components in addition
30 to the alcohol ethoxylate component discussed above. For example, water soluble or
   dispersible low foaming organic material capable of aiding in reducing the surface tension
   of the rinse water to promote sheeting action and/or to aid in reducing or preventing
   spotting or streaking caused by beaded water after rinsing is complete may also be
   included. Such sheeting agents are typically organic surfactant like materials having a
                                                  18

   characteristic cloud point. Surfactants useful in these applications are aqueous soluble
   surfactants having a cloud point greater than the available hot service water, and the cloud
   point can vary, depending on the use locus hot water temperature and the temperature and
   type of rinse cycle.
 5         Some examples of additional sheeting agents can typically comprise a polyether
   compound prepared from ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, or a mixture in a homopolymer
   or block or hetero-copolymer structure. Such polyether compounds are known as
   polyalkylene oxide polymers, polyoxyalkylene polymers or polyalkylene glycol polymers.
   Such sheeting agents require a region of relative hydrophobicity and a region of relative
10 hydrophilicity to provide surfactant properties to the molecule. Such sheeting agents can
   have a molecular weight in the range of about 500 to 15,000. Certain types of (PO)(EO)
   polymeric rinse aids have been found to be useful containing at least one block of
   poly(PO) and at least one block of poly(EO) in the polymer molecule. Additional blocks
   of poly(EO), poly (PO) or random polymerized regions can be formed in the molecule.
15 Particularly useful polyoxypropylene polyoxyethylene block copolymers are those
   comprising a center block of polyoxypropylene units and blocks of polyoxyethylene units
   to each side of the center block. Such polymers have the formula shown below:
                                        (EO),, -(PO)m -(EO),,
20
   wherein m is an integer of 20 to 60, and each end is independently an integer of 10 to 130.
   Another useful block copolymer are block copolymers having a center block of
   polyoxyethylene units and blocks of polyoxypropylene to each side of the center block.
   Such copolymers have the formula:
25                                     (PO), -(EO)m -(PO),
   wherein m is an integer of 15 to 175, and each end are independently integers of about 10
   to 30. For solid compositions, a hydrotrope may be used to aid in maintaining the
   solubility of sheeting or wetting agents. Hydrotropes can be used to modify the aqueous
30 solution creating increased solubility for the organic material. In some embodiments,
   hydrotropes are low molecular weight aromatic sulfonate materials such as xylene
   sulfonates and dialkyldiphenyl oxide sulfonate materials.
                                                  19

            Anti-Redeposition Agents
            The rinse aid composition can optionally include an anti-redeposition agent
   capable of facilitating sustained suspension of soils in a rinse solution and preventing
   removed soils from being redeposited onto the substrate being rinsed. Some examples of
 5 suitable anti-redeposition agents can include fatty acid amides, fluorocarbon surfactants,
   complex phosphate esters, styrene maleic anhydride copolymers, and cellulosic
   derivatives such as hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, and the like. A rinse
   aid composition can include up to about 10 wt. %, and in some embodiments, in the range
   of about I to about 5 wt. %, of an anti-redeposition agent.
10          Bleaching Agents
            The rinse aid can optionally include bleaching agent. Bleaching agent can be used
   for lightening or whitening a substrate, and can include bleaching compounds capable of
   liberating an active halogen species, such as Cl 2 , Br 2, -OCl- and/or -OBr-, or the like,
   under conditions typically encountered during the cleansing process. Suitable bleaching
15 agents for use can include, for example, chlorine-containing compounds such as a
   chlorine, a hypochlorite, chloramines, of the like. Some examples of halogen-releasing
   compounds include the alkali metal dichloroisocyanurates, chlorinated trisodium
   phosphate, the alkali metal hypochlorites, monochloramine and dichloroamine, and the
   like. Encapsulated chlorine sources may also be used to enhance the stability of the
20 chlorine source in the composition (see, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,618,914 and
   4,830,773, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein). A bleaching
   agent may also include an agent containing or acting as a source of active oxygen. The
   active oxygen compound acts to provide a source of active oxygen, for example, may
   release active oxygen in aqueous solutions. An active oxygen compound can be inorganic
25 or organic, or can be a mixture thereof. Some examples of active oxygen compound
   include peroxygen compounds, or peroxygen compound adducts. Some examples of
   active oxygen compounds or sources include hydrogen peroxide, perborates, sodium
   carbonate peroxyhydrate, phosphate peroxyhydrates, potassium permonosulfate, and
   sodium perborate mono and tetrahydrate, with and without activators such as
30 tetraacetylethylene diamine, and the like. A rinse aid composition may include a minor but
   effective amount of a bleaching agent, for example, in some embodiments, in the range of
   up to about 10 wt. %, and in some embodiments, in the range of about 0.1 to about 6 wt.
            Carriers
                                                 20

           In some embodiments, the rinse aid compositions of the present invention are
   formulated as liquid compositions. Carriers can be included in such liquid formulations.
   Any carrier suitable for use in a rinse aid composition can be used in the present invention.
   Preferably, the carrier is water soluble.
 5         In some embodiments, liquid rinse aid compositions according to the present
   invention can contain between about 0.01 wt.% and about 20 wt.% carrier, preferably
   between about 0.5 wt.% and about 15 wt.% carrier, more preferably between about 1 wt.%
   and about 10 wt. %carrier.
           Chelating/Sequestering Agents
10         The rinse aid composition may also include effective amounts of
   chelating/sequestering agents, also referred to as builders. In addition, the rinse aid may
   optionally include one or more additional builders as a functional ingredient. In general,
   a chelating agent is a molecule capable of coordinating (i.e., binding) the metal ions
   commonly found in water sources to prevent the metal ions from interfering with the
15 action of the other ingredients of a rinse aid or other cleaning composition. The
   chelating/sequestering agent may also function as a water conditioning agent when
   included in an effective amount. In some embodiments, a rinse aid can include in the
   range of up to about 70 wt. %, or in the range of about 1-60 wt. %, of a
   chelating/sequestering agent.
20         Often, the rinse aid composition is also phosphate-free. In embodiments of the
   rinse aid composition that are phosphate-free, the additional functional materials,
   including builders exclude phosphorous-containing compounds such as condensed
   phosphates and phosphonates.
           Suitable additional builders include aminocarboxylates and polycarboxylates.
25 Some examples of aminocarboxylates useful as chelating/sequestering agents, include, N
   hydroxyethyliminodiacetic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA), ethylenediaminetetraacetic
   acid (EDTA), N-hydroxyethyl-ethylenediaminetriacetic acid (HEDTA) (in addition to the
   HEDTA used in the binder), diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), and the like.
   Some examples of polymeric polycarboxylates suitable for use as sequestering agents
30 include those having a pendant carboxylate (--C0 2 ) groups and include, for example,
   polyacrylic acid, maleic/olefin copolymer, acrylic/maleic copolymer, polymethacrylic
   acid, acrylic acid-methacrylic acid copolymers, hydrolyzed polyacrylamide, hydrolyzed
   polymethacrylamide, hydrolyzed polyamide-methacrylamide copolymers, hydrolyzed
                                                  21

   polyacrylonitrile, hydrolyzed polymethacrylonitrile, hydrolyzed acrylonitrile
   methacrylonitrile copolymers, and the like.
            In embodiments of the rinse aid composition which are not phosphate-free, added
   chelating/sequestering agents may include, for example a condensed phosphate, a
 5 phosphonate, and the like. Some examples of condensed phosphates include sodium and
   potassium orthophosphate, sodium and potassium pyrophosphate, sodium
   tripolyphosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, and the like. A condensed phosphate may
   also assist, to a limited extent, in solidification of the composition by fixing the free water
   present in the composition as water of hydration.
10          In embodiments of the rinse aid composition which are not phosphate-free, the
   composition may include a phosphonate such as 1-hydroxyethane-1,1-diphosphonic acid
   CH 3C(OH)[PO(OH) 2         ]2; aminotri(methylenephosphonic acid) N[CH 2 PO(OH) 2 ];
   aminotri(methylenephosphonate), sodium salt
                                        ONa
                                        POCH 2 N[CH 2PO(ONa)2]2
                                        OH
15          2-hydroxyethyliminobis(methylenephosphonic acid) HOCH 2 CH 2 NICH 2 PO(OH) 2
   ]2; diethylenetriaminepenta(methylenephosphonic acid) (HO) 2 POCH 2 N[CH 2 CH 2 N[CH 2
   PO(OH) 2 ] 2  ]2; diethylenetriaminepenta(methylenephosphonate), sodium salt C 9 H( 2 8 -x)N 3
   NaxO 15 P5 (x=7); hexamethylenediamine(tetramethylenephosphonate), potassium salt CIo
   H(2 8-x)N 2 KxO 12 P 4 (x=6); bis(hexamethylene)triamine(pentamethylenephosphonic      acid)
20 (HO 2)POCH 2N[(CH 2)6 N[CH 2 PO(OH) 2 ] 2] 2 ; and phosphorus acid H3 PO3 . In some
   embodiments, a phosphonate combination such as ATMP and DTPMP may be used. A
   neutralized or alkaline phosphonate, or a combination of the phosphonate with an alkali
   source prior to being added into the mixture such that there is little or no heat or gas
   generated by a neutralization reaction when the phosphonate is added can be used.
25          For a further discussion of chelating agents/sequestrants, see Kirk-Othmer,
   Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Third Edition, volume 5, pages 339-366 and
   volume 23, pages 319-320, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
            Dyes/Odorants
            Various dyes, odorants including perfumes, and other aesthetic enhancing agents
30 may also be included in the rinse aid. Dyes may be included to alter the appearance of the
                                                    22

   composition, as for example, FD&C Blue 1 (Sigma Chemical), FD&C Yellow 5 (Sigma
   Chemical), Direct Blue 86 (Miles), Fastusol Blue (Mobay Chemical Corp.), Acid Orange
   7 (American Cyanamid), Basic Violet 10 (Sandoz), Acid Yellow 23 (GAF), Acid Yellow
    17 (Sigma Chemical), Sap Green (Keyston Analine and Chemical), Metanil Yellow
 5 (Keystone Analine and Chemical), Acid Blue 9 (Hilton Davis), Sandolan Blue/Acid Blue
    182 (Sandoz), Hisol Fast Red (Capitol Color and Chemical), Fluorescein (Capitol Color
   and Chemical), Acid Green 25 (Ciba-Geigy), and the like.
            Fragrances or perfumes that may be included in the rinse aid compositions include,
   for example, terpenoids such as citronellol, aldehydes such as amyl cinnamaldehyde, a
10 jasmine such as CIS-jasmine or jasmal, vanillin, and the like.
            Fillers
            The rinse aid can optionally include a minor but effective amount of one or more
   of a filler which does not necessarily perform as a rinse and/or cleaning agent per se, but
   may cooperate with a rinse agent to enhance the overall capacity of the composition.
15 Some examples of suitable fillers may include sodium chloride, starch, sugars, C1 -Cio
   alkylene glycols such as propylene glycol, and the like. In some embodiments, a filler can
   be included in an amount in the range of up to about 20 wt. %, and in some embodiments,
   in the range of about 1-15 wt. %.
            Functional Polydimethylsiloxones
20          The rinse aid composition can also optionally include one or more functional
   polydimethylsiloxones. For example, in some embodiments, a polyalkylene oxide
   modified polydimethylsiloxane, nonionic surfactant or a polybetaine-modified
   polysiloxane amphoteric surfactant can be employed as an additive.       Both, in some
   embodiments, are linear polysiloxane copolymers to which polyethers or polybetaines
25 have been grafted through a hydrosilation reaction. Some examples of specific siloxane
   surfactants are known as SILWET* surfactants available from Union Carbide or ABIL*
   polyether or polybetaine polysiloxane copolymers available from Goldschmidt Chemical
   Corp., and described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,654,161 which patent is incorporated herein by
   reference. In some embodiments, the particular siloxanes used can be described as having,
30 e.g., low surface tension, high wetting ability and excellent lubricity. For example, these
   surfactants are said to be among the few capable of wetting polytetrafluoroethylene
   surfaces. The siloxane surfactant employed as an additive can be used alone or in
   combination with a fluorochemical surfactant. In some embodiments, the fluorochemical
   surfactant employed as an additive optionally in combination with a silane, can be, for
                                                  23

   example, a nonionic fluorohydrocarbon, for example, fluorinated alkyl polyoxyethylene
   ethanols, fluorinated alkyl alkoxylate and fluorinated alkyl esters.
           Further description of such functional polydimethylsiloxones and/or
   fluorochemical surfactants are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,880,088; 5,880,089; and
 5 5,603,776, all of which patents are incorporated herein by reference. We have found, for
   example, that the use of certain polysiloxane copolymers in a mixture with hydrocarbon
   surfactants provides excellent rinse aids on plastic ware. We have also found that the
   combination of certain silicone polysiloxane copolymers and fluorocarbon surfactants
   with conventional hydrocarbon surfactants also provide excellent rinse aids on plastic
10 ware. This combination has been found to be better than the individual components except
   with certain polyalkylene oxide-modified polydimethylsiloxanes and polybetaine
   polysiloxane copolymers, where the effectiveness is about equivalent. Therefore, some
   embodiments encompass the polysiloxane copolymers alone and the combination with the
   fluorocarbon surfactant can involve polyether polysiloxanes, the nonionic siloxane
15 surfactants. The amphoteric siloxane surfactants, the polybetaine polysiloxane copolymers
   may be employed alone as the additive in the rinse aids to provide the same results.
            In some embodiments, the composition may include functional
   polydimethylsiloxones in an amount in the range of up to about 10 wt.-%. For example,
   some embodiments may include in the range of about 0.1 to 10 wt.-% of a polyalkylene
20 oxide-modified polydimethylsiloxane or a polybetaine-modified polysiloxane, optionally
   in combination with about 0.1 to 10 wt.-% of a fluorinated hydrocarbon nonionic
   surfactant.
           Humectant
           The rinse aid composition can also optionally include one or more humectants. A
25 humectant is a substance having an affinity for water. The humectant can be provided in
   an amount sufficient to aid in reducing the visibility of a film on the substrate surface.
   The visibility of a film on substrate surface is a particular concern when the rinse water
   contains in excess of 200 ppm total dissolved solids. Accordingly, in some embodiments,
   the humectant is provided in an amount sufficient to reduce the visibility of a film on a
30 substrate surface when the rinse water contains in excess of 200 ppm total dissolved solids
   compared to a rinse agent composition not containing the humectant. The terms "water
   solids filming" or "filming" refer to the presence of a visible, continuous layer of matter
   on a substrate surface that gives the appearance that the substrate surface is not clean.
                                                  24

           Some example humectants that can be used include those materials that contain
   greater than 5 wt. % water (based on dry humectant) equilibrated at 50% relative humidity
   and room temperature. Exemplary humectants that can be used include glycerin,
   propylene glycol, sorbitol, alkyl polyglycosides, polybetaine polysiloxanes, and mixtures
 5 thereof. In some embodiments, the rinse agent composition can include humectant in an
   amount in the range of up to about 75% based on the total composition, and in some
   embodiments, in the range of about 5 wt. % to about 75 wt. %based on the weight of the
   composition. In some embodiments, where humectant is present, the weight ratio of the
   humectant to the sheeting agent can be in the range of about 1:3 or greater, and in some
10 embodiments, in the range of about 5:1 and about 1:3.
           Sanitizers/Anti-Microbial Agents
           The rinse aid can optionally include a sanitizing agent. Sanitizing agents also
   known as antimicrobial agents are chemical compositions that can be used in a solid
   functional material to prevent microbial contamination and deterioration of material
15 systems, surfaces, etc. Generally, these materials fall in specific classes including
   phenolics, halogen compounds, quaternary ammonium compounds, metal derivatives,
   amines, alkanol amines, nitro derivatives, analides, organosulfur and sulfur-nitrogen
   compounds and miscellaneous compounds.
           It should also be understood that active oxygen compounds, such as those
20 discussed above in the bleaching agents section, may also act as antimicrobial agents, and
   can even provide sanitizing activity. In fact, in some embodiments, the ability of the active
   oxygen compound to act as an antimicrobial agent reduces the need for additional
   antimicrobial agents within the composition. For example, percarbonate compositions
   have been demonstrated to provide excellent antimicrobial action. Nonetheless, some
25 embodiments incorporate additional antimicrobial agents.
           The given antimicrobial agent, depending on chemical composition and
   concentration, may simply limit further proliferation of numbers of the microbe or may
   destroy all or a portion of the microbial population. The terms "microbes" and
   "microorganisms" typically refer primarily to bacteria, virus, yeast, spores, and fungus
30 microorganisms. In use, the antimicrobial agents are typically formed into a solid
   functional material that when diluted and dispensed, optionally, for example, using an
   aqueous stream forms an aqueous disinfectant or sanitizer composition that can be
   contacted with a variety of surfaces resulting in prevention of growth or the killing of a
   portion of the microbial population. A three log reduction of the microbial population
                                                  25

   results in a sanitizer composition. The antimicrobial agent can be encapsulated, for
   example, to improve its stability.
            Some examples of common antimicrobial agents include phenolic antimicrobials
   such as pentachlorophenol, orthophenylphenol, a chloro-p-benzylphenol, p-chloro-m
 5 xylenol. Halogen containing antibacterial agents include sodium trichloroisocyanurate,
   sodium dichloro isocyanate (anhydrous or dihydrate), iodine-poly(vinylpyrolidinone)
   complexes, bromine compounds such as 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol, and quaternary
   antimicrobial agents such as benzalkonium chloride, didecyldimethyl ammonium chloride,
   choline diiodochloride, tetramethyl phosphonium tribromide. Other antimicrobial
10 compositions such as hexahydro-1,3,5-tris(2-hydroxyethyl)-s- -triazine, dithiocarbamates
   such as sodium dimethyldithiocarbamate, and a variety of other materials are known in the
   art for their antimicrobial properties.
            In embodiments of the rinse aid composition which are phosphate-free, and also
   include an anti-microbial agent, the anti-microbial is selected to meet those requirements.
15 Embodiments of the rinse aid composition which include only GRAS ingredients, may
   exclude or omit anti-microbial agents described in this section.
            In some embodiments, the rinse aid composition comprises, an antimicrobial
   component in the range of up to about 10 % by wt. of the composition, in some
   embodiments in the range of up to about 5 wt. %, or in some embodiments, in the range of
20 about 0.01 to about 3 wt. %, or in the range of 0.05 to 1% by wt. of the composition.
            Solidification Agent/Hardening Agent/Solubility Modifier
            In some embodiments, one or more solidification agents may be included in the
   rinse aid composition. Examples of hardening agents include urea, an amide such stearic
   monoethanolamide or lauric diethanolamide or an alkylamide, and the like; sulfate salts or
25 sulfated surfactants, and aromatic sulfonates, and the like; a solid polyethylene glycol, or a
   solid EO/PO block copolymer, and the like; starches that have been made water-soluble
   through an acid or alkaline treatment process; various inorganics that impart solidifying
   properties to a heated composition upon cooling, and the like. Such compounds may also
   vary the solubility of the composition in an aqueous medium during use such that the rinse
30 aid and/or other active ingredients may be dispensed from the solid composition over an
   extended period of time.
            Suitable aromatic sulfonates include, but are not limited to, sodium xylene
   sulfonate, sodium toluene sulfonate, sodium cumene sulfonate, potassium toluene
   sulfonate, ammonium xylene sulfonate, calcium xylene sulfonate, sodium alkyl
                                                 26

   naphthalene sulfonate, and/or sodium butyl naphthalene. Preferred aromatic sulfonates
   include sodium xylene sulfonate and sodium cumene sulfonate
            The amount of solidification agent included in a rinse aid composition can be
   dictated by the desired effect. In general, an effective amount of solidification agent is
 5 considered an amount that acts with or without other materials to solidify the rinse aid
   composition. In embodiments seeking only to modify the viscosity and not solidify the
   rinse aid composition, an effective amount is considered an amount that acts with or
   without other materials to achieve the desired viscosity. Typically, for solid
   embodiments, the amount of solidification agent in a rinse aid composition is in a range of
10 about 10 to about 80% by weight of the rinse aid composition, preferably in the range of
   about 20 to about 75% by weight more preferably in the range of about 20 to about 70%
   by weight of the rinse aid composition. In an aspect of the invention, the solidification
   agent is substantially free of sulfate. For example, the rinse aid may have less than 1 wt.%
   sulfate, preferably less than 0.5 wt.%, more preferably less than 0.1wt.%. In a preferred
15 embodiment the rinse aid is free of sulfate.
            In certain embodiments it can be desirable to have a secondary solidification agent.
   In compositions containing secondary solidification the composition may include a
   secondary solidification agent in an amount in the range of up to about 30 wt. %. In some
   embodiments, secondary hardening agents are may be present in an amount in the range of
20 about 5 to about 25 wt.%, often in the range of about 10 to about 25 wt.%, and sometimes
   in the range of about 5 to about 15 wt.-%.
            The solidification process can last from a few minutes to about four hours,
   depending, for example, on the size of the cast,extruded or pressed composition, the
   ingredients of the composition, the temperature of the composition, and other like factors.
25 Typically, the rinse aid composition of the present disclosure exhibits extended mix time
   capability. Often, the cast, extruded or pressed composition "sets up" or begins to harden
   to a solid form within 1 minute to about 3 hours. For example, the cast or extruded
   composition "sets up" or begins to harden to a solid form within a range of 1 minute to 2
   hours. In some instances, the cast or extruded composition "sets up" or begins to harden
30 to a solid form with a range of 1 minute to about 20 minutes.
            Additional Hardening/Solidification Agents/Solubility Modifiers
            In some embodiments, one or more additional hardening agents may be included
   in the solid rinse aid composition if desired. Examples of hardening agents include an
   amide such stearic monoethanolamide or lauric diethanolamide, or an alkylamide, and the
                                                  27

   like; a solid polyethylene glycol, or a solid EO/PO block copolymer, and the like; starches
   that have been made water-soluble through an acid or alkaline treatment process; various
   inorganics that impart solidifying properties to a heated composition upon cooling, and the
   like. Such compounds may also vary the solubility of the composition in an aqueous
 5 medium during use such that the rinse aid and/or other active ingredients may be
   dispensed from the solid composition over an extended period of time. The composition
   may include a secondary hardening agent in an amount in the range of up to about 30
   wt.%. In some embodiments, secondary hardening agents are may be present in an
   amount in the range of about 5 to about 25 wt.%, often in the range of about 10 to about
10 25 wt.%, and sometimes in the range of about 5 to about 15 wt.%.
            Surfactants
            In some embodiments, the compositions of the present invention include a
   surfactant. Surfactants suitable for use with the compositions of the present invention
   include, but are not limited to, nonionic surfactants, semipolar nonionic surfactants,
15 cationic surfactants, amphoteric surfactants, and zwitterionic surfactants. In an aspect of
   the invention, the rinse aid compositions are free or substantially free of anionic
   surfactants.   In some embodiments, the compositions of the present invention include
   about 0.01 wt.% to about 50 wt.% of a surfactant. In other embodiments the compositions
   of the present invention include about 1 wt.% to about 40 wt.% of a surfactant. In still yet
20 other embodiments, the compositions of the present invention include about 10 wt.% to
   about 30 wt.% of a surfactant.
           Nonionic Surfactants
            Useful nonionic surfactants are generally characterized by the presence of an
   organic hydrophobic group and an organic hydrophilic group and are typically produced
25 by the condensation of an organic aliphatic, alkyl aromatic or polyoxyalkylene
   hydrophobic compound with a hydrophilic alkaline oxide moiety which in common
   practice is ethylene oxide or a polyhydration product thereof, polyethylene glycol.
   Practically any hydrophobic compound having a hydroxyl, carboxyl, amino, or amido
   group with a reactive hydrogen atom can be condensed with ethylene oxide, or its
30 polyhydration adducts, or its mixtures with alkoxylenes such as propylene oxide to form a
   nonionic surface-active agent. The length of the hydrophilic polyoxyalkylene moiety
   which is condensed with any particular hydrophobic compound can be readily adjusted to
   yield a water dispersible or water soluble compound having the desired degree of balance
   between hydrophilic and hydrophobic properties. Useful nonionic surfactants include:
                                                  28

            1.      Block polyoxypropylene-polyoxyethylene polymeric compounds based
   upon propylene glycol, ethylene glycol, glycerol, trimethylolpropane, and ethylenediamine
   as the initiator reactive hydrogen compound. Examples of polymeric compounds made
   from a sequential propoxylation and ethoxylation of initiator are commercially available
 5 under the trade names Pluronic * and Tetronic* manufactured by BASF Corp. Pluronic*
   compounds are difunctional (two reactive hydrogens) compounds formed by condensing
   ethylene oxide with a hydrophobic base formed by the addition of propylene oxide to the
   two hydroxyl groups of propylene glycol. This hydrophobic portion of the molecule
   weighs from about 1,000 to about 4,000. Ethylene oxide is then added to sandwich this
10 hydrophobe between hydrophilic groups, controlled by length to constitute from about
   10% by weight to about 80% by weight of the final molecule. Tetronic compounds are
   tetra-flinctional block copolymers derived from the sequential addition of propylene oxide
   and ethylene oxide to ethylenediamine. The molecular weight of the propylene oxide
   hydrotype ranges from about 500 to about 7,000; and, the hydrophile, ethylene oxide, is
15 added to constitute from about 10% by weight to about 80% by weight of the molecule.
            2.      Condensation products of one mole of alkyl phenol wherein the alkyl chain,
   of straight chain or branched chain configuration, or of single or dual alkyl constituent,
   contains from about 8 to about 18 carbon atoms with from about 3 to about 50 moles of
   ethylene oxide. The alkyl group can, for example, be represented by diisobutylene, di
20 amyl, polymerized propylene, iso-octyl, nonyl, and di-nonyl. These surfactants can be
   polyethylene, polypropylene, and polybutylene oxide condensates of alkyl phenols.
   Examples of commercial compounds of this chemistry are available on the market under
   the trade names Igepal* manufactured by Rhone-Poulenc and Triton® manufactured by
   Union Carbide.
25          3.      Condensation products of one mole of a saturated or unsaturated, straight or
   branched chain alcohol having from about 6 to about 24 carbon atoms with from about 3
   to about 50 moles of ethylene oxide. The alcohol moiety can consist of mixtures of
   alcohols in the above delineated carbon range or it can consist of an alcohol having a
   specific number of carbon atoms within this range. Examples of like commercial
30 surfactant are available under the trade names NeodolM manufactured by Shell Chemical
   Co. and Alfonic'm manufactured by Vista Chemical Co.
            4.      Condensation products of one mole of saturated or unsaturated, straight or
   branched chain carboxylic acid having from about 8 to about 18 carbon atoms with from
   about 6 to about 50 moles of ethylene oxide. The acid moiety can consist of mixtures of
                                                29

   acids in the above defined carbon atoms range or it can consist of an acid having a specific
   number of carbon atoms within the range. Examples of commercial compounds of this
   chemistry are available on the market under the trade names Nopalcolm manufactured by
   Henkel Corporation and Lipopegm manufactured by Lipo Chemicals, Inc.
 5          In addition to ethoxylated carboxylic acids, commonly called polyethylene glycol
   esters, other alkanoic acid esters formed by reaction with glycerides, glycerin, and
   polyhydric (saccharide or sorbitan/sorbitol) alcohols have application in this invention for
   specialized embodiments, particularly indirect food additive applications. All of these
   ester moieties have one or more reactive hydrogen sites on their molecule which can
10 undergo further acylation or ethylene oxide (alkoxide) addition to control the
   hydrophilicity of these substances. Care must be exercised when adding these fatty ester or
   acylated carbohydrates to compositions of the present invention containing amylase and/or
   lipase enzymes because of potential incompatibility.
            Examples of nonionic low foaming surfactants include:
15          5.      Compounds from (1) which are modified, essentially reversed, by adding
   ethylene oxide to ethylene glycol to provide a hydrophile of designated molecular weight;
   and, then adding propylene oxide to obtain hydrophobic blocks on the outside (ends) of
   the molecule. The hydrophobic portion of the molecule weighs from about 1,000 to about
   3,100 with the central hydrophile including 10% by weight to about 80% by weight of the
20 final molecule. These reverse Pluronics TM are manufactured by BASF Corporation under
   the trade name Pluronic      R surfactants. Likewise, the Tetronic  R surfactants are
   produced by BASF Corporation by the sequential addition of ethylene oxide and
   propylene oxide to ethylenediamine. The hydrophobic portion of the molecule weighs
   from about 2,100 to about 6,700 with the central hydrophile including 10% by weight to
25 80% by weight of the final molecule.
            6.      Compounds from groups (1), (2), (3) and (4) which are modified by
   cappingn" or "end blocking" the terminal hydroxy group or groups (of multi-functional
   moieties) to reduce foaming by reaction with a small hydrophobic molecule such as
   propylene oxide, butylene oxide, benzyl chloride; and, short chain fatty acids, alcohols or
30 alkyl halides containing from 1 to about 5 carbon atoms; and mixtures thereof. Also
   included are reactants such as thionyl chloride which convert terminal hydroxy groups to a
   chloride group. Such modifications to the terminal hydroxy group may lead to all-block,
   block-heteric, heteric-block or all-heteric nonionics.
            Additional examples of effective low foaming nonionics include:
                                                  30

           7.     The alkylphenoxypolyethoxyalkanols of U.S. Pat. No. 2,903,486 issued
   Sep. 8, 1959 to Brown et al. and represented by the formula
   in which R is an alkyl group of 8 to 9 carbon atoms, A is an alkylene chain of 3 to 4
 5 carbon atoms, n is an integer of 7 to 16, and m is an integer of I to 10.
           The polyalkylene glycol condensates of U.S. Pat. No. 3,048,548 issued Aug. 7,
   1962 to Martin et al. having alternating hydrophilic oxyethylene chains and hydrophobic
   oxypropylene chains where the weight of the terminal hydrophobic chains, the weight of
   the middle hydrophobic unit and the weight of the linking hydrophilic units each represent
10 about one-third of the condensate.
           The defoaming nonionic surfactants disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3,382,178 issued
   May 7, 1968 to Lissant et al. having the general formula Z[(OR)"OH]z wherein Z is
   alkoxylatable material, R is a radical derived from an alkaline oxide which can be ethylene
   and propylene and n is an integer from, for example, 10 to 2,000 or more and z is an
15 integer determined by the number of reactive oxyalkylatable groups.
           The conjugated polyoxyalkylene compounds described in U.S. Pat. No. 2,677,700,
   issued May 4, 1954 to Jackson et al. corresponding to the formula Y(C 3 H6 O)n (C 2 H 4 0)mH
   wherein Y is the residue of organic compound having from about 1 to 6 carbon atoms and
   one reactive hydrogen atom, n has an average value of at least about 6.4, as determined by
20 hydroxyl number and m has a value such that the oxyethylene portion constitutes about
   10% to about 90% by weight of the molecule.
           The conjugated polyoxyalkylene compounds described in U.S. Pat. No. 2,674,619,
   issued Apr. 6, 1954 to Lundsted et al. having the formula Y[(C 3 H6 O (C 2 H40)mH]x
   wherein Y is the residue of an organic compound having from about 2 to 6 carbon atoms
25 and containing x reactive hydrogen atoms in which x has a value of at least about 2, n has
   a value such that the molecular weight of the polyoxypropylene hydrophobic base is at
   least about 900 and m has value such that the oxyethylene content of the molecule is from
   about 10% to about 90% by weight. Compounds falling within the scope of the definition
                                                 31

   for Y include, for example, propylene glycol, glycerine, pentaerythritol,
   trimethylolpropane, ethylenediamine and the like. The oxypropylene chains optionally, but
   advantageously, contain small amounts of ethylene oxide and the oxyethylene chains also
   optionally, but advantageously, contain small amounts of propylene oxide.
 5         Additional conjugated polyoxyalkylene surface-active agents which are
   advantageously used in the compositions of this invention correspond to the formula:
   P[(C 3H6O). (C 2 H 4 0)mH]x wherein P is the residue of an organic compound having from
   about 8 to 18 carbon atoms and containing x reactive hydrogen atoms in which x has a
   value of 1 or 2, n has a value such that the molecular weight of the polyoxyethylene
10 portion is at least about 44 and m has a value such that the oxypropylene content of the
   molecule is from about 10% to about 90% by weight. In either case the oxypropylene
   chains may contain optionally, but advantageously, small amounts of ethylene oxide and
   the oxyethylene chains may contain also optionally, but advantageously, small amounts of
   propylene oxide.
15         8.       Polyhydroxy fatty acid amide surfactants suitable for use in the present
   compositions include those having the structural formula R 2 CONR1Z in which: RI is H,
   CI-C 4 hydrocarbyl, 2-hydroxy ethyl, 2-hydroxy propyl, ethoxy, propoxy group, or a
   mixture thereof; R 2 is a C5 -C 3 1 hydrocarbyl, which can be straight-chain; and Z is a
   polyhydroxyhydrocarbyl having a linear hydrocarbyl chain with at least 3 hydroxyls
20 directly connected to the chain, or an alkoxylated derivative (preferably ethoxylated or
   propoxylated) thereof. Z can be derived from a reducing sugar in a reductive amination
   reaction; such as a glycityl moiety.
           9.       The alkyl ethoxylate condensation products of aliphatic alcohols with from
   about 0 to about 25 moles of ethylene oxide are suitable for use in the present
25 compositions. The alkyl chain of the aliphatic alcohol can either be straight or branched,
   primary or secondary, and generally contains from 6 to 22 carbon atoms.
           10.      The ethoxylated C6 -C18 fatty alcohols and C6 -C18 mixed ethoxylated and
   propoxylated fatty alcohols are suitable surfactants for use in the present compositions,
   particularly those that are water soluble. Suitable ethoxylated fatty alcohols include the C6
30 C18 ethoxylated fatty alcohols with a degree of ethoxylation of from 3 to 50.
           11.      Suitable nonionic alkylpolysaccharide surfactants, particularly for use in
   the present compositions include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,565,647, Llenado,
   issued Jan. 21, 1986. These surfactants include a hydrophobic group containing from
   about 6 to about 30 carbon atoms and a polysaccharide, e.g., a polyglycoside, hydrophilic
                                                    32

   group containing from about 1.3 to about 10 saccharide units. Any reducing saccharide
   containing 5 or 6 carbon atoms can be used, e.g., glucose, galactose and galactosyl
   moieties can be substituted for the glucosyl moieties. (Optionally the hydrophobic group is
   attached at the 2-, 3-, 4-, etc. positions thus giving a glucose or galactose as opposed to a
 5 glucoside or galactoside.) The intersaccharide bonds can be, e.g., between the one position
   of the additional saccharide units and the 2-, 3-, 4-, and/or 6-positions on the preceding
   saccharide units.
           12.      Fatty acid amide surfactants suitable for use the present compositions
   include those having the formula: R 6 CON(R 7 ) 2 in which R 6 is an alkyl group containing
10 from 7 to 21 carbon atoms and each R 7 is independently hydrogen, C1 - C 4 alkyl,         C1 - C4
   hydroxyalkyl, or -- ( C 2H4O)xH, where x is in the range of from 1 to 3.
           13.      A useful class of non-ionic surfactants includes the class defined as
   alkoxylated amines or, most particularly, alcohol alkoxylated/aminated/alkoxylated
   surfactants. These non-ionic surfactants may be at least in part represented by the general
15 formulae: R20 --(PO)sN--(EO) ,H, R20 --(PO)sN--(EO) ,H(EO),H, and R20 --N(EO) tH; in
   which R 2 0 is an alkyl, alkenyl or other aliphatic group, or an alkyl-aryl group of from 8 to
   20, preferably 12 to 14 carbon atoms, EO is oxyethylene, PO is oxypropylene, s is 1 to 20,
   preferably 2-5, t is 1-10, preferably 2-5, and u is 1-10, preferably 2-5. Other variations on
   the scope of these compounds may be represented by the alternative formula: R 20 -- (PO)v-
20 N[(EO) wH]I[(EO)    zH]  in which R 2 0 is as defined above, v is I to 20 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, or 4
   (preferably 2)), and w and z are independently 1-10, preferably 2-5. These compounds are
   represented commercially by a line of products sold by Huntsman Chemicals as nonionic
   surfactants. A preferred chemical of this class includes Surfonic M PEA 25 Amine
   Alkoxylate. Preferred nonionic surfactants for the compositions of the invention include
25 alcohol alkoxylates, EO/PO block copolymers, alkylphenol alkoxylates, and the like.
           The treatise Nonionic Surfactants, edited by Schick, M. J., Vol. 1 of the Surfactant
   Science Series, Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1983 is an excellent reference on the wide
   variety of nonionic compounds generally employed in the practice of the present
   invention. A typical listing of nonionic classes, and species of these surfactants, is given in
30 U.S. Pat. No. 3,929,678 issued to Laughlin and Heuring on Dec. 30, 1975. Further
   examples are given in "Surface Active Agents and detergents" (Vol. I and II by Schwartz,
   Perry and Berch).
           Semi-PolarNonionic Surfactants
           The semi-polar type of nonionic surface active agents are another class of nonionic
                                                     33

   surfactant useful in compositions of the present invention. Generally, semi-polar nonionics
   are high foamers and foam stabilizers, which can limit their application in CIP systems.
   However, within compositional embodiments of this invention designed for high foam
   cleaning methodology, semi-polar nonionics would have immediate utility. The semi-polar
 5 nonionic surfactants include the amine oxides, phosphine oxides, sulfoxides and their
   alkoxylated derivatives.
           14.     Amine oxides are tertiary amine oxides corresponding to the general
   formula:
10 wherein the arrow is a conventional representation of a semi-polar bond; and, R , R2 , and
   R3 may be aliphatic, aromatic, heterocyclic, alicyclic, or combinations thereof. Generally,
   for amine oxides of detergent interest, R1 is an alkyl radical of from about 8 to about 24
   carbon atoms; R2 and R3 are alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of 1-3 carbon atoms or a mixture
   thereof; R 2 and R3 can be attached to each other, e.g. through an oxygen or nitrogen atom,
15 to form a ring structure; R4 is an alkaline or a hydroxyalkylene group containing 2 to 3
   carbon atoms; and n ranges from 0 to about 20.
           Useful water soluble amine oxide surfactants are selected from the coconut or
   tallow alkyl di-(lower alkyl) amine oxides, specific examples of which are
   dodecyldimethylamine oxide, tridecyldimethylamine oxide, etradecyldimethylamine
20 oxide, pentadecyldimethylamine oxide, hexadecyldimethylamine oxide,
   heptadecyldimethylamine oxide, octadecyldimethylaine oxide, dodecyldipropylamine
   oxide, tetradecyldipropylamine oxide, hexadecyldipropylamine oxide,
   tetradecyldibutylamine oxide, octadecyldibutylamine oxide, bis(2
   hydroxyethyl)dodecylamine oxide, bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-dodecoxy-1
25 hydroxypropylamine oxide, dimethyl-(2-hydroxydodecyl)amine oxide, 3,6,9
   trioctadecyldimethylamine oxide and 3-dodecoxy-2-hydroxypropyldi-(2
   hydroxyethyl)amine oxide.
           Useful semi-polar nonionic surfactants also include the water soluble phosphine
                                                  34

   oxides having the following structure:
           wherein the arrow is a conventional representation of a semi-polar bond; and, R, is
   an alkyl, alkenyl or hydroxyalkyl moiety ranging from 10 to about 24 carbon atoms in
 5 chain length; and, R 2 and R3 are each alkyl moieties separately selected from alkyl or
   hydroxyalkyl groups containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms.
           Examples of useful phosphine oxides include dimethyldecylphosphine oxide,
   dimethyltetradecylphosphine oxide, methylethyltetradecylphosphone oxide,
   dimethylhexadecylphosphine oxide, diethyl-2-hydroxyoctyldecylphosphine oxide, bis(2
10 hydroxyethyl)dodecylphosphine oxide, and bis(hydroxymethyl)tetradecylphosphine oxide.
           Semi-polar nonionic surfactants useful herein also include the water soluble
   sulfoxide compounds which have the structure:
           wherein the arrow is a conventional representation of a semi-polar bond; and, R 1 is
15 an alkyl or hydroxyalkyl moiety of about 8 to about 28 carbon atoms, from 0 to about 5
   ether linkages and from 0 to about 2 hydroxyl substituents; and R 2 is an alkyl moiety
   consisting of alkyl and hydroxyalkyl groups having 1 to 3 carbon atoms.
           Useful examples of these sulfoxides include dodecyl methyl sulfoxide; 3-hydroxy
   tridecyl methyl sulfoxide; 3-methoxy tridecyl methyl sulfoxide; and 3-hydroxy-4
20 dodecoxybutyl methyl sulfoxide.
           Semi-polar nonionic surfactants for the compositions of the invention include
   dimethyl amine oxides, such as lauryl dimethyl amine oxide, myristyl dimethyl amine
   oxide, cetyl dimethyl amine oxide, combinations thereof, and the like. Useful water
   soluble amine oxide surfactants are selected from the octyl, decyl, dodecyl, isododecyl,
25 coconut, or tallow alkyl di-(lower alkyl) amine oxides, specific examples of which are
   octyldimethylamine oxide, nonyldimethylamine oxide, decyldimethylamine oxide,
   undecyldimethylamine oxide, dodecyldimethylamine oxide, iso-dodecyldimethyl amine
   oxide, tridecyldimethylamine oxide, tetradecyldimethylamine oxide,
                                                35

   pentadecyldimethylamine oxide, hexadecyldimethylamine oxide,
   heptadecyldimethylamine oxide, octadecyldimethylaine oxide, dodecyldipropylamine
   oxide, tetradecyldipropylamine oxide, hexadecyldipropylamine oxide,
   tetradecyldibutylamine oxide, octadecyldibutylamine oxide, bis(2
 5 hydroxyethyl)dodecylamine oxide, bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-dodecoxy-1
   hydroxypropylamine oxide, dimethyl-(2-hydroxydodecyl)amine oxide, 3,6,9
   trioctadecyldimethylamine oxide and 3-dodecoxy-2-hydroxypropyldi-(2
   hydroxyethyl)amine oxide.
           Suitable nonionic surfactants suitable for use with the compositions of the present
10 invention include alkoxylated surfactants. Suitable alkoxylated surfactants include EO/PO
   copolymers, capped EO/PO copolymers, alcohol alkoxylates, capped alcohol alkoxylates,
   mixtures thereof, or the like. Suitable alkoxylated surfactants for use as solvents include
   EO/PO block copolymers, such as the Pluronic and reverse Pluronic surfactants; alcohol
   alkoxylates, such as Dehypon LS-54 (R-(EO) 5 (PO) 4 ) and Dehypon LS-36 (R-(EO) 3 (PO)6 );
15 and capped alcohol alkoxylates, such as Plurafac LF221 and Tegoten EC11; mixtures
   thereof, or the like.
           Cationic Surfactants
           Surface active substances are classified as cationic if the charge on the hydrotrope
   portion of the molecule is positive. Surfactants in which the hydrotrope carries no charge
20 unless the pH is lowered close to neutrality or lower, but which are then cationic (e.g.
   alkyl amines), are also included in this group. In theory, cationic surfactants may be
   synthesized from any combination of elements containing an "onium" structure RnX+Y-
   and could include compounds other than nitrogen (ammonium) such as phosphorus
   (phosphonium) and sulfur (sulfonium). In practice, the cationic surfactant field is
25 dominated by nitrogen containing compounds, probably because synthetic routes to
   nitrogenous cationics are simple and straightforward and give high yields of product,
   which can make them less expensive.
           Cationic surfactants preferably include, more preferably refer to, compounds
   containing at least one long carbon chain hydrophobic group and at least one positively
30 charged nitrogen. The long carbon chain group may be attached directly to the nitrogen
   atom by simple substitution; or more preferably indirectly by a bridging functional group
   or groups in so-called interrupted alkylamines and amido amines. Such functional groups
   can make the molecule more hydrophilic and/or more water dispersible, more easily water
   solubilized by co-surfactant mixtures, and/or water soluble. For increased water solubility,
                                                 36

   additional primary, secondary or tertiary amino groups can be introduced or the amino
   nitrogen can be quaternized with low molecular weight alkyl groups. Further, the nitrogen
   can be a part of branched or straight chain moiety of varying degrees of unsaturation or of
   a saturated or unsaturated heterocyclic ring. In addition, cationic surfactants may contain
 5 complex linkages having more than one cationic nitrogen atom.
           The surfactant compounds classified as amine oxides, amphoterics and zwitterions
   are themselves typically cationic in near neutral to acidic pH solutions and can overlap
   surfactant classifications. Polyoxyethylated cationic surfactants generally behave like
   nonionic surfactants in alkaline solution and like cationic surfactants in acidic solution.
10         The simplest cationic amines, amine salts and quaternary ammonium compounds
   can be schematically drawn thus:
   in which, R represents an alkyl chain, R', R", and R.' may be either alkyl chains or aryl
   groups or hydrogen and X represents an anion. The amine salts and quaternary ammonium
15 compounds are preferred for practical use in this invention due to their high degree of
   water solubility.
           The majority of large volume commercial cationic surfactants can be subdivided
   into four major classes and additional sub-groups known to those or skill in the art and
   described in "Surfactant Encyclopedia", Cosmetics & Toiletries, Vol. 104 (2) 86-96
20 (1989). The first class includes alkylamines and their salts. The second class includes alkyl
   imidazolines. The third class includes ethoxylated amines. The fourth class includes
   quaternaries, such as alkylbenzyldimethylammonium salts, alkyl benzene salts,
   heterocyclic ammonium salts, tetra alkylammonium salts, and the like. Cationic
   surfactants are known to have a variety of properties that can be beneficial in the present
25 compositions. These desirable properties can include detergency in compositions of or
   below neutral pH, antimicrobial efficacy, thickening or gelling in cooperation with other
   agents, and the like.
           Cationic surfactants useful in the compositions of the present invention include
                                1 21
   those having the formula R    mR XYLZ  wherein each R is an organic group containing a
30 straight or branched alkyl or alkenyl group optionally substituted with up to three phenyl
                                                 37

   or hydroxy groups and optionally interrupted by up to four of the following structures:
   or an isomer or mixture of these structures, and which contains from about 8 to 22 carbon
 5 atoms. The R 1 groups can additionally contain up to 12 ethoxy groups. m is a number from
   1 to 3. Preferably, no more than one R group in a molecule has 16 or more carbon atoms
   when m is 2 or more than 12 carbon atoms when m is 3. Each R 2 is an alkyl or
   hydroxyalkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a benzyl group with no more
   than one R 2 in a molecule being benzyl, and x is a number from 0 to 11, preferably from 0
10 to 6. The remainder of any carbon atom positions on the Y group are filled by hydrogens.
   Y is can be a group including, but not limited to:
             ..........
                 .......
   or a mixture thereof. Preferably, L is 1 or 2, with the Y groups being separated by a moiety
   selected from R 1 and R 2 analogs (preferably alkylene or alkenylene) having from 1 to
15 about 22 carbon atoms and two free carbon single bonds when L is 2. Z is a water soluble
   anion, such as a halide, sulfate, methylsulfate, hydroxide, or nitrate anion, particularly
   preferred being chloride, bromide, iodide, sulfate or methyl sulfate anions, in a number to
   give electrical neutrality of the cationic component.
           Amphoteric Surfactants
20         Amphoteric, or ampholytic, surfactants contain both a basic and an acidic
   hydrophilic group and an organic hydrophobic group. These ionic entities may be any of
                                                  38

   anionic or cationic groups described herein for other types of surfactants. A basic nitrogen
   and an acidic carboxylate group are the typical functional groups employed as the basic
   and acidic hydrophilic groups. In a few surfactants, sulfonate, sulfate, phosphonate or
   phosphate provide the negative charge.
 5          Amphoteric surfactants can be broadly described as derivatives of aliphatic
   secondary and tertiary amines, in which the aliphatic radical may be straight chain or
   branched and wherein one of the aliphatic substituents contains from about 8 to 18 carbon
   atoms and one contains an anionic water solubilizing group, e.g., carboxy, sulfo, sulfato,
   phosphato, or phosphono. Amphoteric surfactants are subdivided into two major classes
10 known to those of skill in the art and described in "Surfactant Encyclopedia" Cosmetics &
   Toiletries, Vol. 104 (2) 69-71 (1989), which is herein incorporated by reference in its
   entirety. The first class includes acyl/dialkyl ethylenediamine derivatives (e.g. 2-alkyl
   hydroxyethyl imidazoline derivatives) and their salts. The second class includes N
   alkylamino acids and their salts. Some amphoteric surfactants can be envisioned as fitting
15 into both classes.
            Amphoteric surfactants can be synthesized by methods known to those of skill in
   the art. For example, 2-alkyl hydroxyethyl imidazoline is synthesized by condensation
   and ring closure of a long chain carboxylic acid (or a derivative) with dialkyl
   ethylenediamine. Commercial amphoteric surfactants are derivatized by subsequent
20 hydrolysis and ring-opening of the imidazoline ring by alkylation -- for example with
   chloroacetic acid or ethyl acetate. During alkylation, one or two carboxy-alkyl groups
   react to form a tertiary amine and an ether linkage with differing alkylating agents yielding
   different tertiary amines.
            Long chain imidazole derivatives having application in the present invention
25 generally have the general formula:
   (MONO)ACETATE                           (DI)PROPIONATE
                       CH 2 COO                          CH 2 COO
    RCONHCH 2CH2T }H                   RCONHCH 2CH 2T +CH 2CH 2COOH
                       CH 2 CH 2 OH                      CH 2 CH 2OH
30
                                                  39

   Neutral pH Zwitternion
   AMPHOTERIC SULFONATE
                               OH
                         7 CH 2CHCH 2 SO 3 NA
   RCONHCH 2CH 2N
 5
   wherein R is an acyclic hydrophobic group containing from about 8 to 18 carbon atoms
   and M is a cation to neutralize the charge of the anion, generally sodium. Commercially
   prominent imidazoline-derived amphoterics that can be employed in the present
   compositions include for example: Cocoamphopropionate, Cocoamphocarboxy
10 propionate, Cocoamphoglycinate, Cocoamphocarboxy-glycinate, Cocoamphopropyl
   sulfonate, and Cocoamphocarboxy-propionic acid. Amphocarboxylic acids can be
   produced from fatty imidazolines in which the dicarboxylic acid functionality of the
   amphodicarboxylic acid is diacetic acid and/or dipropionic acid.
           The carboxymethylated compounds (glycinates) described herein above frequently
15 are called betaines. Betaines are a special class of amphoteric discussed herein below in
   the section entitled, Zwitterion Surfactants.
           Long chain N-alkylamino acids are readily prepared by reaction RNH 2, in which
   R=C8 -Ci8 straight or branched chain alkyl, fatty amines with halogenated carboxylic acids.
   Alkylation of the primary amino groups of an amino acid leads to secondary and tertiary
20 amines. Alkyl substituents may have additional amino groups that provide more than one
   reactive nitrogen center. Most commercial N-alkylamine acids are alkyl derivatives of
   beta-alanine or beta-N(2-carboxyethyl) alanine. Examples of commercial N-alkylamino
   acid ampholytes having application in this invention include alkyl beta-amino
   dipropionates, RN(C 2 H 4 COOM) 2 and RNHC 2H 4 COOM. In an embodiment, R can be an
25 acyclic hydrophobic group containing from about 8 to about 18 carbon atoms, and M is a
   cation to neutralize the charge of the anion.
           Suitable amphoteric surfactants include those derived from coconut products such
   as coconut oil or coconut fatty acid. Additional suitable coconut derived surfactants
   include as part of their structure an ethylenediamine moiety, an alkanolamide moiety, an
30 amino acid moiety, e.g., glycine, or a combination thereof; and an aliphatic substituent of
                                                 40

   from about 8 to 18 (e.g., 12) carbon atoms. Such a surfactant can also be considered an
   alkyl amphodicarboxylic acid. These amphoteric surfactants can include chemical
   structures represented as: C12-alkyl-C(O)-NH-CH 2-CH 2-N*(CH 2-CH 2-CO 2Na) 2-CH 2
   CH 2-OH or C12-alkyl-C(O)-N(H)-CH 2-CH 2-N*(CH 2-CO 2Na) 2-CH 2-CH 2-OH. Disodium
 5 cocoampho dipropionate is one suitable amphoteric surfactant and is commercially
   available under the tradename MiranolTM FBS from Rhodia Inc., Cranbury, N.J. Another
   suitable coconut derived amphoteric surfactant with the chemical name disodium
   cocoampho diacetate is sold under the tradename MirataineTM JCHA, also from Rhodia
   Inc., Cranbury, N.J.
10          A typical listing of amphoteric classes, and species of these surfactants, is given in
   U.S. Pat. No. 3,929,678 issued to Laughlin and Heuring on Dec. 30, 1975. Further
   examples are given in "Surface Active Agents and Detergents" (Vol. I and II by Schwartz,
   Perry and Berch). Each of these references is herein incorporated by reference in their
   entirety.
15          Zwitterionic Surfactants
            Zwitterionic surfactants can be thought of as a subset of the amphoteric surfactants
   and can include an anionic charge. Zwitterionic surfactants can be broadly described as
   derivatives of secondary and tertiary amines, derivatives of heterocyclic secondary and
   tertiary amines, or derivatives of quaternary ammonium, quaternary phosphonium or
20 tertiary sulfonium compounds. Typically, a zwitterionic surfactant includes a positive
   charged quaternary ammonium or, in some cases, a sulfonium or phosphonium ion; a
   negative charged carboxyl group; and an alkyl group. Zwitterionics generally contain
   cationic and anionic groups which ionize to a nearly equal degree in the isoelectric region
   of the molecule and which can develop strong" inner-salt" attraction between positive
25 negative charge centers. Examples of such zwitterionic synthetic surfactants include
   derivatives of aliphatic quaternary ammonium, phosphonium, and sulfonium compounds,
   in which the aliphatic radicals can be straight chain or branched, and wherein one of the
   aliphatic substituents contains from 8 to 18 carbon atoms and one contains an anionic
   water solubilizing group, e.g., carboxy, sulfonate, sulfate, phosphate, or phosphonate.
30          Betaine and sultaine surfactants are exemplary zwitterionic surfactants for use
   herein. A general formula for these compounds is:
                                                  41

          ( 2)Ix
        1 +          3
     R-Y-CH2-R-Z
   wherein R 1 contains an alkyl, alkenyl, or hydroxyalkyl radical of from 8 to 18 carbon
   atoms having from 0 to 10 ethylene oxide moieties and from 0 to 1 glyceryl moiety; Y is
   selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, phosphorus, and sulfur atoms; R2 is an
 5 alkyl or monohydroxy alkyl group containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms; x is 1 when Y is a
   sulfur atom and 2 when Y is a nitrogen or phosphorus atom, R3 is an alkylene or hydroxy
   alkylene or hydroxy alkylene of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and Z is a radical selected from
   the group consisting of carboxylate, sulfonate, sulfate, phosphonate, and phosphate
   groups.
10          Examples of zwitterionic surfactants having the structures listed above include: 4
   [N,N-di(2-hydroxyethyl)-N-octadecylammonio] -butane-i -carboxylate; 5-[S-3
   hydroxypropyl-S -hexadecylsulfonio] -3-hydroxypentane- 1-sulfate; 3-[P,P-diethyl-P-3,6,9
   trioxatetracosanephosphonio]-2-hydroxypropane- 1-phosphate; 3-[N,N-dipropyl-N-3
   dodecoxy-2-hydroxypropyl-ammonio] -propane-i -phosphonate; 3-(N,N-dimethyl-N
15 hexadecylammonio)-propane- 1-sulfonate; 3-(N,N-dimethyl-N-hexadecylammonio)-2
   hydroxy-propane-1-sulfonate; 4-[N,N-di(2(2-hydroxyethyl)-N(2
   hydroxydodecyl)ammonio] -butane-i -carboxylate; 3-[S-ethyl-S-(3-dodecoxy-2
   hydroxypropyl)sulfonio] -propane-I-phosphate; 3-[P,P-dimethyl-P-dodecylphosphonio]
   propane-i -phosphonate; and S[N,N-di(3-hydroxypropyl)-N-hexadecylammonio]-2
20 hydroxy-pentane- I-sulfate. The alkyl groups contained in said detergent surfactants can
   be straight or branched and saturated or unsaturated.
            The zwitterionic surfactant suitable for use in the present compositions includes a
   betaine of the general structure:
         R                          R                           R
        I I - 2-CO
     R'-N-CH
                                 I-
                               R-S-CH -C0
                        2                  2      2         R'-P-CH2 -CO2
         R                                                      R
25 These surfactant betaines typically do not exhibit strong cationic or anionic characters at
   pH extremes nor do they show reduced water solubility in their isoelectric range. Unlike
   External" quaternary ammonium salts, betaines are compatible with anionics. Examples
   of suitable betaines include coconut acylamidopropyldimethyl betaine; hexadecyl
                                                  42

   dimethyl betaine; C 12 -14 acylamidopropylbetaine; C 8    14 acylamidohexyldiethyl betaine; 4
   C 14 _16 acylmethylamidodiethylammonio-1-carboxybutane; C16-18
   acylamidodimethylbetaine; C 12 -16 acylamidopentanediethylbetaine; and C12-16
   acylmethylamidodimethylbetaine.
 5           Sultaines useful in the present invention include those compounds having the
   formula (R(R)     2 N+ R2 03  -, in which R is a C6 -C18 hydrocarbyl group, each R 1 is
   typically independently C1 -C 3 alkyl, e.g. methyl, and R 2 is a C 1 -C6 hydrocarbyl group, e.g.
   a C 1 -C 3 alkylene or hydroxyalkylene group.
             A typical listing of zwitterionic classes, and species of these surfactants, is given in
10 U.S. Pat. No. 3,929,678 issued to Laughlin and Heuring on Dec. 30, 1975. Further
   examples are given in "Surface Active Agents and Detergents" (Vol. I and II by Schwartz,
   Perry and Berch). Each of these references is herein incorporated in their entirety.
             Other Ingredients
             A wide variety of other ingredients useful in providing the particular composition
15 being formulated to include desired properties or functionality may also be included. For
   example, the rinse aid may include other active ingredients, such as pH modifiers,
   buffering agents, cleaning enzyme, carriers, processing aids, or others, and the like.
             Additionally, the rinse aid can be formulated such that during use in aqueous
   operations, for example in aqueous cleaning operations, the rinse water will have a desired
20 pH. For example, compositions designed for use in rinsing may be formulated such that
   during use in aqueous rinsing operation the rinse water will have a pH in the range of
   about 3 to about 5, or in the range of about 5 to about 9. Techniques for controlling pH at
   recommended usage levels include the use of buffers, alkali sources, and acids. Such
   techniques can be applied to the rinse aid compositions if desired.
25           Processing and/or Manufacturing of the Composition
             The invention also relates to a method of processing and/or making the rinse aid
   composition. The rinse aid composition can be provided as a liquid or solid (e.g., block).
   In general, it is expected that the rinse aid composition will be diluted with water to
   provide the use solution that is then supplied to the surface of a substrate, for example,
30 during a rinse cycle. The use solution preferably contains an effective amount of active
   material to provide reduced water solids filming in high solids containing water.
             The rinse aid composition can be processed and formulated using conventional
   equipment and techniques. The desired amount of the sheeting agent component, the
   defoamer component, and a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate
                                                    43

   monomers or alkali metal salts thereof is provided, along with any other ingredients such
   as a preservative. The components are vigorously admixed. In solid formulations, the
   components are sometimes heated, typically in the range of 100 to 140 'F. The vigorous
   admixing and heating may be performed in a TAMAR mixer or an extruder system or
 5 other similar equipment. For solid formulations, the complete mixture can be extruded or
   pressed into the desired form or cast into a mold, cooled or chilled. Molded forms may be
   removed from the molds or remain in the container (i.e. mold).
           It should be understood that compositions and methods embodying the invention
   are suitable for preparing a variety of solid compositions, as for example, a cast, extruded,
10 pressed, molded or formed solid pellet, block, tablet, and the like. In some embodiments,
   the solid composition can be formed to have a weight of 50 grams or less, while in other
   embodiments, the solid composition can be formed to have a weight of 50 grams or
   greater, 500 grams or greater, or 1 kilogram or greater. For the purpose of this application
   the term "solid block" includes cast, formed, extruded or pressed materials having a
15 weight of 50 grams or greater. The solid compositions provide for a stabilized source of
   functional materials. In some embodiments, the solid composition may be dissolved, for
   example, in an aqueous or other medium, to create a concentrated and/or use solution.
   The solution may be directed to a storage reservoir for later use and/or dilution, or may be
   applied directly to a point of use.
20         The various liquid materials included in the rinse aid composition can be adapted
   to a solid form by incorporating into the solidification agent, optionally accompanied by
   one or more additional solidification agents. Other examples of casting agents include
   polyethylene glycol, and nonionic polyethylene or polypropylene oxide polymer. In some
   embodiments, polyethylene glycols (PEG) are used in melt type solidification processing
25 by uniformly blending the sheeting agent and other components with PEG at a
   temperature above the melting point of the PEG and cooling the uniform mixture.
           In some embodiments, in the formation of a rinse aid composition, a mixing
   system may be used to provide for continuous mixing of the ingredients at high enough
   shear to form a substantially homogeneous solid or semi-solid mixture in which the
30 ingredients are distributed throughout its mass. In some embodiments, the mixing system
   includes means for mixing the ingredients to provide shear effective for maintaining the
   mixture at a flowable consistency, with a viscosity during processing in the range of about
   1,000-1,000,000 cP, or in the range of about 50,000-200,000 cP. In some example
   embodiments, the mixing system can be a continuous flow mixer or in some
                                                  44

   embodiments, an extruder, such as a single or twin screw extruder apparatus. A suitable
   amount of heat may be applied from an external source to facilitate processing of the
   mixture.
           The mixture is typically processed at a temperature to maintain the physical and
 5 chemical stability of the ingredients. In some embodiments, the mixture is processed at
   temperatures in the range of about 100 to 140 'F. In certain other embodiments, the
   mixture is processed at temperatures in the range of 110-125     0 F. Although limited
   external heat may be applied to the mixture, the temperature achieved by the mixture may
   become elevated during processing due to friction, variances in ambient conditions, and/or
10 by an exothermic reaction between ingredients. Optionally, the temperature of the
   mixture may be increased, for example, at the inlets or outlets of the mixing system.
           An ingredient may be in the form of a liquid or a solid such as a dry particulate,
   and may be added to the mixture separately or as part of a premix with another ingredient,
   as for example, the sheeting agent, the defoamer, an aqueous medium, and additional
15 ingredients such as a hardening agent, and the like. One or more premixes may be added
   to the mixture.
           The ingredients are mixed to form a substantially homogeneous consistency
   wherein the ingredients are distributed substantially evenly throughout the mass. The
   mixture can be discharged from the mixing system through a die or other shaping means.
20 The profiled extrudate then can be divided into useful sizes with a controlled mass.
   Optionally, heating and cooling devices may be mounted adjacent to mixing apparatus to
   apply or remove heat in order to obtain a desired temperature profile in the mixer. For
   example, an external source of heat may be applied to one or more barrel sections of the
   mixer, such as the ingredient inlet section, the final outlet section, and the like, to increase
25 fluidity of the mixture during processing. In some embodiments, the temperature of the
   mixture during processing, including at the discharge port, is maintained in the range of
   about 100 to 140 'F.
           The composition hardens due to the chemical or physical reaction of the requisite
   ingredients forming the solid. The solidification process may last from a few minutes to
30 about six hours, or more, depending, for example, on the size of the cast or extruded
   composition, the ingredients of the composition, the temperature of the composition, and
   other like factors. In some embodiments, the cast or extruded composition "sets up" or
   begins to hardens to a solid form within about 1 minute to about 3 hours, or in the range of
                                                  45

   about 1 minute to about 2 hours, or in some embodiments, within about 1 minute to about
   20 minutes.
            In some embodiments, the extruded solid can be packaged, for example in a
   container or in film. The temperature of the mixture when discharged from the mixing
 5 system can be sufficiently low to enable the mixture to be cast or extruded directly into a
   packaging system without first cooling the mixture. The time between extrusion
   discharge and packaging may be adjusted to allow the hardening of the composition for
   better handling during further processing and packaging. In some embodiments, the
   mixture at the point of discharge is in the range of about 100 to 140 'F. In certain other
10 embodiments, the mixture is processed at temperatures in the range of 110-125 0 F. The
   composition is then allowed to harden to a solid form that may range from a low density,
   sponge-like, malleable, caulky consistency to a high density, fused solid, concrete-like
   solid.
           An example cast solid rinse aid of the present invention may be prepared as
15 follows: solvate the urea in aqueous solution, add sheeting agent(s), defoamer(s), and heat
   while admixing to maintain as a liquid, e.g., 100-140' F. TEKMAR the mixture (e.g.,
   vigorously mix). Cast into a form. Additional ingredients, such as preservatives and dyes
   may be added at any stage prior to final mixing and casting. Chill the form and pop-out
   the solid rinse aid composition.
20         In an alternative example, a liquid premix is prepared by heated admixing of
   water, urea, sheeting agent, terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate, and
   defoamer and separate preparation of urea. The urea admixed into the heated liquid
   premix, for example using an extruder. The final product is extruded and cooled.
           Packaging System
25         The aid compositions can be, but are not necessarily, incorporated into a packaging
   system or receptacle. The packaging receptacle or container may be rigid or flexible, and
   include any material suitable for containing the compositions produced, as for example
   glass, metal, plastic film or sheet, cardboard, cardboard composites, paper, or the like.
   Solid rinse aid compositions may be allowed to solidify in the packaging or may be
30 packaged after formation of the solids in commonly available packaging and sent to
   distribution center before shipment to the consumer.
           For solids, advantageously, in at least some embodiments, since the rinse is
   processed at or near ambient temperatures, the temperature of the processed mixture is
   low enough so that the mixture may be cast or extruded directly into the container or other
                                                  46

   packaging system without structurally damaging the material. As a result, a wider variety
   of materials may be used to manufacture the container than those used for compositions
   that processed and dispensed under molten conditions. In some embodiments, the
   packaging used to contain the rinse aid is manufactured from a flexible, easy opening film
 5 material.
            Dispensing/Use of the Rinse Aid
            The rinse aid can be dispensed as a solid concentrate or as a use solution.  In
   general, it is expected that the concentrate will be dissolved and diluted with water to
   provide the use solution that is then supplied to the surface to be cleaned. In some
10 embodiments, the aqueous use solution may contain about 5 to about 2,000 parts per
   million (ppm), or about 10 ppm to about 1,000 ppm, or about 10 ppm to about 500 ppm of
   active materials, or in the range of about 10 to about 300 ppm, or in the range of about 10
   to 200 ppm.
            The use solution can be applied to the substrate during a rinse application, for
15 example, during a rinse cycle, for example, in a warewashing machine, a car wash
   application, or the like. In some embodiments, formation of a use solution can occur from
   a rinse agent installed in a cleaning machine, for example onto a dish rack. The rinse
   agent can be diluted and dispensed from a dispenser mounted on or in the machine or from
   a separate dispenser that is mounted separately but cooperatively with the dish machine.
20          For example, in some embodiments, liquid rinse agents can be dispensed by
   incorporating compatible packaging containing the liquid material into a dispenser
   adapted to diluting the liquid with water to a final use concentration. Some examples of
   dispensers for the liquid rinse agent of the invention are DRYMASTER-P sold by Ecolab
   Inc., St. Paul, Minn.
25          In other example embodiments, solid products, such as cast or extruded solid
   compositions, may be conveniently dispensed by inserting a solid material in a container
   or with no enclosure into a spray-type dispenser such as the volume SOL-ET controlled
   ECOTEMP Rinse Injection Cylinder system manufactured by Ecolab Inc., St. Paul, Minn.
   Such a dispenser cooperates with a warewashing machine in the rinse cycle. When
30 demanded by the machine, the dispenser directs a spray of water onto the cast solid block
   of rinse agent which effectively dissolves a portion of the block creating a concentrated
   aqueous rinse solution which is then fed directly into the rinse water forming the aqueous
   rinse. The aqueous rinse is then contacted with the dishes to affect a complete rinse. This
   dispenser and other similar dispensers are capable of controlling the effective
                                                  47

   concentration of the active portion in the aqueous rinse by measuring the volume of
   material dispensed, the actual concentration of the material in the rinse water (an
   electrolyte measured with an electrode) or by measuring the time of the spray on the cast
   block. In general, the concentration of active portion in the aqueous rinse is preferably the
 5 same as identified above for liquid rinse agents. Some other embodiments of spray-type
   dispenser are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,826,661, 4,690,305, 4,687,121, 4,426,362 and
   in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re 32,763 and 32,818, the disclosures of which are incorporated by
   reference herein. An example of a particular product shape is shown in FIG. 9 of U.S.
   Patent Application No. 6,258,765, which is incorporated herein by reference.
10         In some embodiments, the rinse aid may be formulated for a particular application.
   For example, in some embodiments, the rinse aid may be particularly formulated for use
   in warewashing machines. As discussed above, there are two general types of rinse cycles
   in commercial warewashing machines. A first type of rinse cycle can be referred to as a
   hot water sanitizing rinse cycle because of the use of generally hot rinse water (about 180
15 F). A second type of rinse cycle can be referred to as a chemical sanitizing rinse cycle and
   it uses generally lower temperature rinse water (about 1200 F).
           In some embodiments, it is believed that the rinse aid composition of the invention
   can be used in a high solids containing water environment in order to reduce the
   appearance of a visible film caused by the level of dissolved solids provided in the water.
20 In general, high solids containing water is considered to be water having a total dissolved
   solids (TDS) content in excess of 200 ppm. In certain localities, the service water
   contains total dissolved solids content in excess of 400 ppm, and even in excess of 800
   ppm. The applications where the presence of a visible film after washing a substrate is a
   particular problem includes the restaurant or warewashing industry, the car wash industry,
25 and the general cleaning of hard surfaces. Exemplary articles in the warewashing industry
   that can be treated with a rinse aid according to the invention include dishware, cups,
   glasses, flatware, and cookware. For the purposes of this invention, the terms "dish" and
   "ware" are used in the broadest sense to refer to various types of articles used in the
   preparation, serving, consumption, and disposal of food stuffs including pots, pans, trays,
30 pitchers, bowls, plates, saucers, cups, glasses, forks, knives, spoons, spatulas, and other
   glass, metal, ceramic, plastic composite articles commonly available in the institutional or
   household kitchen or dining room. In general, these types of articles can be referred to as
   food or beverage contacting articles because they have surfaces which are provided for
   contacting food and/or beverage. When used in these warewashing applications, the rinse
                                                  48

   aid should provide effective sheeting action and low foaming properties. In addition to
   having the desirable properties described above, it may also be useful for the rinse aid to
   be biodegradable, environmentally friendly, and generally nontoxic. A rinse aid of this
   type may be described as being "food grade".
 5         The above description provides a basis for understanding the broad meets and
   bounds of the invention. The following examples and test data provide an understanding
   of certain specific embodiments of the invention. The invention will be further described
   by reference to the following detailed examples. These examples are not meant to limit
   the scope of the invention. Variation within the concepts of the invention is apparent to
10 those skilled in the art.
           Embodiments
           Exemplary ranges of a concentrated liquid rinse aid composition according to the
   invention are shown in Table 1 in weight percentage of the rinse aid compositions.
   TABLE 1
                             First Exemplary   Second Exemplary        Third Exemplary
        Material
                               Range wt- %         Range wt- %           Range wt- %
        Defoamer                  0.01-60             0.5-40                   1-20
        Sheeting Agent            0.01-60             0.1-45                   1-35
        Terpolymer                0.01-35             0.05-25                0.5-10
        Water                       0-98               35-95                  50-92
15
           Exemplary ranges of a concentrated solid rinse aid composition according to the
   invention are shown in Table 2 in weight percentage of the rinse aid compositions.
20
   TABLE 2
                             First Exemplary   Second Exemplary        Third Exemplary
       Material
                               Range wt- %         Range wt- %            Range wt- %
       Defoamer                     1-60               3-50                    5-35
       Sheeting Agent               1-45               1-35                    1-25
                                                49

        Solidification
                                   10-80                 20-75                   20-70
        Agent
        Terpolymer               0.01-40                 0.1-15                   1-10
        Water                      0-15                   1-14                    3-10
            Exemplary ranges of a rinse aid use solution according to the invention are shown
   in Table 3 in weight percentage of the rinse aid compositions.
   TABLE 3
                             First Exemplary       Second Exemplary       Third Exemplary
         Material
                                Range ppm              Range ppm             Range ppm
         Defoamer                   1-200                10-100                  20-75
         Sheeting Agent             1-200                 5-100                  10-50
         Terpolymer                 1-100                  1-50                   1-20
 5
            All publications and patent applications in this specification are indicative of the
   level of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains. All publications and
   patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each
   individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated as
10 incorporated by reference.
   EXAMPLES
            Embodiments of the present invention are further defined in the following non
   limiting Examples. It should be understood that these Examples, while indicating certain
15 embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only. From the above
   discussion and these Examples, one skilled in the art can ascertain the essential
   characteristics of this invention, and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof,
   can make various changes and modifications of the embodiments of the invention to adapt
   it to various usages and conditions. Thus, various modifications of the embodiments of
20 the invention, in addition to those shown and described herein, will be apparent to those
   skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to
   fall within the scope of the appended claims.
            The materials used in the following Examples are provided herein:
            Novel 111012-21: an alcohol ethoxylate, available from Sasol.
                                                   50

           Pluronic 25 R2: a polyethylene oxide-polypropylene oxide block copolymer,
   available from the BASF.
           Belclene 810: a maleic, vinyl acetate, ethyl acrylate terpolymer, available from
   BWA.
 5         The experiments described in the examples were performed using a use solution
   formulations provided in the Table 4.
   TABLE 4
                 Description              Formula 1       Formula 2     Formula 3
                 Water                         92.5           91.1         91.8
                 Novel II                       2.5           2.5           2.5
                 Pluronic 25R2                   5              5            5
                 Belclene 810                    0             1.4          0.7
10         The formulations were dispensed at a rate of 4 mL per cycle. The concentrations
   of the formulation in the use solution as tested are provided in the Table 5.
   TABLE 5
                 Description              Formula 1       Formula 2     Formula 3
                 Novel II (ppm)               27.25          27.25        27.25
                 Pluronic 25R2 (ppm)          54.50          54.50        54.50
                 Belcene 810 (ppm)             0.00           7.63         3.81
15
                                                  51

                                             EXAMPLE 1
                       ONE HUNDRED-CYCLE FILM EVALUATION FOR
                         INSTITUTIONAL WAREWASH DETERGENTS
 5          To determine the ability of various detergent compositions to remove spots and
   film from ware, six Libby 10 oz. glass tumblers were prepared by removing all film and
   foreign material from the surfaces of the glasses. An Apex HT warewash machine was
   then filled with an appropriate amount of water and the water was tested for hardness.
            After recording the hardness value, the tank heaters were turned on. On the day of
10 the experiments, the water hardness was 17 grains. The warewash machine was turned on
   and wash/rinse cycles were run through the machine until a wash temperature of between
   about 150'F and about 160'F and a rinse temperature of between about 175'F and about
   190'F were reached. The controller was then set to dispense an appropriate amount of
   detergent into the wash tank. The detergent was dispensed such that when the detergent
15 was mixed with water during the cycle to form a use solution, the detergent concentration
   in the use solution was 775 parts per million (ppm). The solution in the wash tank was
   titrated to verify detergent concentration. The warewash machine had a washbath volume
   of 30.28 liters, a rinse volume of 3.6 liters, a washtime of 50 seconds, and a rinse time of 9
   seconds.
20          The six clean glass tumblers were placed diagonally in a Raburn rack and one
   Newport 10 oz. plastic tumbler were placed off-diagonally in the Raburn rack (see figure
   below for arrangement) and the rack was placed inside the warewash machine. (P=plastic
   tumbler; G=glass tumbler).
25                                                          G
                                                         G
                                                      G
                                                  G
                                              G          P
30                                       G
            The 100 cycle test was then started. At the beginning of each wash cycle, the
   appropriate amount of detergent was automatically dispensed into the warewash machine
   to maintain the initial detergent concentration. The detergent concentration was controlled
35 by conductivity.
                                                   52

            Upon completion of 100 cycles, the rack was removed from the warewash machine
   and the glass and plastic tumblers were allowed to dry. The glass and plastic tumblers
   were then graded for spot and film accumulation using an analytical light box evaluation.
            The light box test used a digital camera, a light box, a light source, a light meter
 5 and a control computer employing "Spot Advance" and "Image Pro Plus" commercial
   software. A glass to be evaluated was placed on its side on the light box, and the intensity
   of the light source was adjusted to a predetermined value using the light meter. A
   photographic image of the glass was taken and saved to the computer. The software was
   then used to analyze the upper half of the glass, and the computer displayed a histogram
10 graph with the area under the graph being proportional to the thickness of the film.
            Generally, a lower light box score indicates that more light was able to pass
   through the tumbler. Thus, the lower the light box score, the more effective the
   composition was at preventing scale on the surface of the tumbler.
            The results of the 100-Cycle Light Box test are shown in the Table 6 and Figure 1,
15 which corresponds with the data in Table 6..
   TABLE 6
                                                                  Summed      Plastic   Summed
                                                                  Glass       Score     Total
                                                                  Score                 Score
           Gi       G2        G3       G4       G5       G6                   P1
       1   Maxed    Maxed     Maxed    Maxed    Maxed    Maxed    393210      Maxed     458745
           65535    65535     65535)   65535    65535    65535                65535
       2    19632   20015     21827    18561    19845    22235    122115      65535     187650
       3    17737    18464    19707    18307    18691    18232    111138      38494     149632
            The light box data demonstrates that formulas 2 and 3, both of which included, the
20 terpolymer surprisingly had better rinsing performance than formula 1, which included the
   same defoamer and sheeting agent. Without wishing to be bound by the theory, it is
   believed that the termpolymer interacts with the defoamer and sheeting agent
   synergistically to provide the improvement in rinsing.
                                                  53

          The above specification provides a description of the manufacture and use of the
  disclosed compositions and methods. Since many embodiments can be made without
  departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, the invention resides in the claims.
5
                                               54

What is claimed is:
1.      A rinse aid composition comprising:
a sheeting agent comprising one or more alcohol ethoxylates;
a defoamer component comprising a polymer compound including one or more ethylene
        oxide groups;
a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts
        thereof.
2.      The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition is a solid and further
comprises a solidification agent present between about 30 wt.% and about 75 wt.% of the
composition.
3.      The composition according to any of claims 1-2, wherein the sheeting agent is
present between about 0.01 wt.% and about 60 wt.% of the composition, and wherein the
defoamer is present between about 0.01 wt.% and about 60 wt.% of the composition.
4.      The composition according to any of claims 1-3, wherein the a terpolymer of
maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts thereof is present
between about 0.01 wt.% and about 40 wt.% of the composition.
5.      The composition according to any of claims 1-4, further comprising a preservative
and a hydroxycarboxylic acid, wherein the preservative is selected from the group
consisting of methylchloroisothiazolinone, methylisothiazolinone, and mixtures of the
same.
6.      The composition of claim 5, wherein the hydroxycarboxylic acid comprises citric
acid, an anhydrous alkali metal salt of citric acid, a hydrated alkali metal salt of citric acid
and combinations thereof.
7.      The composition of any of claims 5-6, wherein the preservative is present between
about 0.01 wt.% and about 10 wt.% of the composition, and wherein the
hydroxycarboxylic acid is present from about 0.1 wt.% to about 20 wt.% of the
composition.
                                               55

8.      A method of cleaning a surface comprising:
contacting a soiled surface with a detergent and the rinse aid of any claims 1-7.
9.      The method of claim 8, wherein said surface is a ware, wherein said rinse aid
contacts the surface after the detergent and is diluted with water to form a use solution
prior to contacting the soiled surface, and wherein said use solution is at a concentration
less than about 2000 ppm.
10.     A method for making a rinse aid composition comprising:
mixing a sheeting agent comprising one or more alcohol ethoxylates, a defoamer
        component comprising a polymer compound including one or more ethylene oxide
        groups, and a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl acetate, and ethyl acrylate monomers or
        alkali metal salts thereof to form a mixture;
forming a rinse aid composition.
11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the mixture is heated to prior to after forming a
rinse aid composition.
12.     The method of any of claims 10-11, wherein the composition is a solid and further
comprises a solidification agent present between about 20 wt.% and about 75 wt.% of the
composition.
13.     The method of any of claims 10-12, wherein the sheeting agent is present between
about 0.01 wt.% and about 60 wt.% of the composition.
14.     The method of any of claims 10-13, wherein the defoamer is present between
about 0.01 wt.% and about 60 wt.% of the composition.
15.     The method of any of claims 10-14, wherein the a terpolymer of maleic, vinyl
acetate, and ethyl acrylate monomers or alkali metal salts thereof is present between about
0.01 wt.% and about 40 wt.% of the composition.
                                              56

16.      The method of any of claims 10-15, wherein the composition further comprises a
preservative and a hydroxycarboxylic acid.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the preservative is selected from the group
consisting of methylchloroisothiazolinone, methylisothiazolinone, and mixtures of the same.
18.      The method of any of claims 16-17, wherein the hydroxycarboxylic acid comprises
citric acid, an anhydrous alkali metal salt of citric acid, a hydrated alkali metal salt of citric
acid and combinations thereof.
19.      The method of any of claims 16-18, wherein the preservative is present between
about 0.01 wt.% and about 10 wt.% of the composition, and wherein the hydroxycarboxylic
acid is present from about 0.1 wt.% to about 20 wt.% of the composition.
20.      The method of any of claims 10-19, wherein the composition further comprises one
or more additional functional ingredients.
                                        Ecolab USA Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                            57

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
