                                        ABSTRACT
According to one aspect, a system for managing information objects in dynamic
data storage devices including a first data storage device having a plurality of
information  objects, a second data storage device operatively connectable to an
output device for providing at least some of the information objects to at least one
user, and at least one processor operatively coupled to the first data storage device and
the second data storage device. The         at least one     processor   is configured   to
automatically divide the plurality of information objects in the first data storage device
to form at   least one data subdivision based on division criteria, and repeatedly, in
response to a dynamic operating condition determine a relevance value of at least one of
the data subdivisions in the first data storage device and the second data storage
device indicative of the relevance of those data subdivision to the user, and based on
the relevance value, perform at least one of loading those data subdivision to the
second data storage, or unloading those data subdivision from the second data
storage.

                      1/10
                                              10
12                                 14
   FIRST DATA               SECOND
    STORAGE                  DATA
                           STORAGE
              PROCESSOR               OUTPUT
                     -18                     16
                   FIGURE 1

   TITLE: SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING INFORMATION OBJECTS IN
                          DYNAMIC DATA STORAGE DEVICES
     [0001]    The present specification was filed as a divisional application of AU
 5   <removed-apn> which was filed as a divisional application of AU 2011201908 and AU
     2011201908 claims priority to provisional application US 61/330295. The entire
     contents of AU <removed-apn>, AU 2011201908 and US 61/330295 are incorporated
     herein by reference.
      FIELD
 0    [0001a] The embodiments herein relate to the field of memory management, and
     in particular to memory management for use with dynamic data storage devices.
      INTRODUCTION
      [0002]   Computing devices, such as personal computers, laptops, netbooks, etc.
 5   normally use memory or some other storage device to store instructions for use by
     at least one processor to run applications and to store information objects
     referenced by the applications.
      [0003]    In most computing devices, there are different types of memories. For
     example, a computing device may have a persistent memory such as a magnetic
 0   hard drive or flash memory for persistent or longer-term storage of applications and
     information objects in the computer. A computing device may also have dynamic
     memory (e.g. Random-Access Memory (RAM), cache memory, etc.), which will
     typically store the applications and the contents relating to the processes that are
     currently active in the processor. Generally speaking, dynamic memory is often
25   faster than persistent memory, but tends to be more expensive per unit of storage.
     Accordingly, a typical computing device will often have both faster dynamic memory
     and slower persistent memory.
      [0004]   Storing application information in the faster dynamic memory tends to
     result in the application having improved performance (e.g. faster loading and
30   running). However, because there is normally a smaller finite amount of dynamic
                                            - 1-

   memory available on a computing device, it is often impractical to have all
   information associated to an application stored in the faster memory. Accordingly,
   some information may be stored in persistent memory, and moved into and out of
   the dynamic memory at various times as needed.
 5 [0005]    Some applications may require large amounts of memory to display
   information objects. This may be inherent to the application, as the application may
   attach a large overhead to each information object, regardless of the size of the
   information object.    For example, web browser processes may assign a large
   amount of memory as overhead for each information object regardless of the size of
 0 the particular information object. In such cases, it may be desirable to reduce the
   amount of aggregate overhead by only providing information objects that the user
   may currently require.
   [0006]    Furthermore, some computing devices (e.g. mobile devices) may connect
   to a server over a wireless data network such as a 3G or HSPA+ networks. In such
 5 cases, the speed of transmission may be limited such that it would be undesirable
   to transfer a large amount of data that may or may not be used.
   [0007]    In some cases, the cost of data transmission may make it undesirable to
   transfer large amounts of data. In other cases, the size of the output device, such
   as a display screen in the mobile computing device, may be fairly small such that it
 0 is undesirable to load large numbers of information objects in order to improve user
   experience, as the display screen may only be able to display a limited number of
   information objects.
   [0008]    Accordingly, the inventors have identified a need for systems, methods,
   and apparatuses that attempt to address at least some of these challenges.
25
   SUMMARY OF VARIOUS EMBODIMENTS
   [0009]    According to one aspect, there is provided a system for managing
   information objects in dynamic data storage devices comprising a first data storage
   device having a plurality of information objects, a second data storage device
                                          -2-

   operatively connectable to an output device for providing at least some of the
   information objects to at least one user, and at least one processor operatively
   coupled to the first data storage device and the second data storage device, the at
   least one processor configured to: automatically divide the plurality of information
 5 objects in the first data storage device to form at least one data subdivision based
   on division criteria; and repeatedly, in response to a dynamic operating condition:
   determine a relevance value of at least one of the data subdivisions in the first data
   storage device and the second data storage device indicative of the relevance of
   those data subdivision to the user; and based on the relevance value, perform at
 0 least one of loading those data subdivision to the second data storage, or unloading
   those data subdivision from the second data storage.
   [0010]     The at least one processor may be further configured to load the at least
   one of the data subdivisions to the second data storage when the relevance value
   associated with those data subdivisions is outside a threshold.
 5 [0011]      The at least one processor may be further configured to unload the at
   least one of the data subdivisions from the second data storage when the relevance
   value associated with those data subdivisions is outside a threshold.
   [0012]     The at least one processor may be further configured to re-divide the
   plurality of information objects in response to the dynamic operating condition.
 0 [0013]     Each data subdivision may comprise at least one of a subset of the
   plurality of information objects, and metadata associated with at least one of the
   plurality of information objects.
   [0014]     In some embodiments,         whether each     data subdivision    comprises
   metadata associated with at least one of the plurality of information objects, or
25 whether each data subdivision comprises the plurality of information objects is
   based on the quantity of information objects to be displayed.
   [0015]     In some embodiments, the data subdivision comprises metadata, and the
   at least one of the plurality information objects associated with that data subdivision
                                            -3-

   may be loaded to the second data storage device based on the relevance value of
   that subdivision.
   [0016]     The data subdivision may comprise metadata, and the at least one of the
   plurality information objects associated with that data subdivision may be unloaded
 5 from the second data storage device based on the relevance value of that data
   subdivision.
   [0017]     In some embodiments, the division criteria include a memory size value
   indicative of available memory size for the second data storage device.
    [0018]    In some embodiments, when the output device is display device, the
 0 predetermined division criteria include a display size value indicative of the size of
   the output display. In some embodiments, the division criteria include the size of the
   at least one data subdivision.
    [0019]    In some embodiments, the division criteria include the speed of transfer
   between the first data storage device and the second data device.
 5 [0020]     In some embodiments, the division criteria include preference settings, the
   preference settings being indicative of the user's preference as to at least one of the
   data subdivision of the information         objects based on division criteria and
   determination of the relevance value.
   [0021]     In some embodiments, the relevance value of the at least one data
 O subdivision is determined based on interaction frequency value indicative of the
   frequency of user interaction with that data subdivision.
    [0022]    In some embodiments, the relevance value of the at least one data
   subdivision is determined based on preference settings, the preference settings
   being indicative of the user's preference as to at least one of the subdivision of the
25 information objects based on division criteria and determination of the relevance
   value.
                                           -4-

   [0023]    The relevance value of the at least one data subdivision may be
   determined based on a temporal value indicative of the length of time that data
   subdivision has been in the second data storage device.
   [0024]    The relevance value of the at least one data subdivision may be
 5 determined based on speed of transfer between the first data storage device and
   the second data storage device.
   [0025]    The relevance value of the at least one data subdivision may be based on
   the size of the data subdivision.
   [0026]    In some embodiments, the first data storage device is located on a server
 0 computer and the second data storage device is located on a client computer, the
   server computer and client computer being operatively connected.
   [0027]    The first data storage device and the second data storage device may be
   located on a client computer. The first data storage device and the second data
   storage device may be logical partitions of a single data storage device.
 5 [0028]    In some embodiments, the information objects in the first data storage
   device are in a first format, and the data subdivisions in the second data storage
   device are in a second format. The information objects in the first data storage
   device may be compressed, and the data subdivisions in the second data storage
   device may not be compressed.
 0 [0029]    The division criteria may include the processing capabilities of the
   processor.
   [0030]    The division criteria may include the capabilities of software configured to
   run on the processor.
   [0031]    According to another aspect, there is provided a method for managing
25 information objects in dynamic data storage devices comprising automatically
   dividing the plurality of information objects in the first data storage device using at
   least one processor to form at least one data subdivision based on division criteria,
   the processor being operatively coupled to the first data storage device and a
                                           -5-

   second data storage device, the second data storage being connectable to an
   output device for providing at least some of the information objects to at least one
   user, repeatedly, in response to a dynamic operating condition using at least one
   processor to determine a relevance value of at least one of the data subdivisions in
 5 the first data storage device and the second data storage device indicative of the
   relevance of those data subdivisions to the user, and based on the relevance value,
   perform at least one of loading those data subdivisions to the second data storage,
   or unloading those data subdivisions from the second data storage.
 O DRAWINGS
   [0032]     For a better understanding of the embodiments described herein and to
   show more clearly how they may be carried into effect, reference will now be made,
   by way of example only, to the accompanying drawings which show at least one
   exemplary embodiment, and in which:
 5 [0033]     Figure 1 is a block diagram illustrating a system for managing information
   objects in dynamic data storage devices according to one embodiment;
   [0034]     Figures 2A to 2C are schematic diagrams illustrating the information
   objects in the first data storage device in Figure 1;
   [0035]     Figure 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating the information objects in the
 0 first data storage device and the second data storage device in Figure 1;
   [0036]     Figures 4A to 4B are schematic diagrams illustrating the information
   objects being displayed in the output device in Figure 1;
   [0037]     Figures 5A to 5B are schematic diagrams illustrating the information
   objects in the second data storage device and being displayed in the output device
25 in Figure 1;
   [0038]     Figure 6 is a graph representing changes the relevance value of an
   exemplary subdivision over time;
                                           -6-

   [0039]    Figure 7 is a schematic diagram representing the contents of the second
   memory storage device being displayed in the output device of Figure 1;
   [0040]    Figure 8 is a block diagram illustrating a system for managing information
   objects in dynamic data storage devices according to another embodiment;
 5 [0041]    Figure 9 is a block diagram illustrating a system for managing information
   objects in dynamic data storage devices according to yet another embodiment; and
   [0042]    Figure 10 is a block diagram illustrating steps of a method for managing
   information objects in dynamic data storage devices according to yet another
   embodiment.
 0
   DESCRIPTION OF VARIOUS EMBODIMENTS
   [0043]    It will be appreciated that numerous specific details are set forth in order to
   provide a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments described herein.
   However, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the
 5 embodiments described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In
   other instances, well-known methods, procedures and components have not been
   described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments described herein.
   [0044]    Furthermore, this description is not to be considered as limiting the scope
   of the embodiments described herein in any way, but rather as merely describing
 0 the implementation of the various embodiments described herein.
   [0045]    In some cases, the embodiments of the systems and methods described
   herein may be implemented in hardware or software, or a combination of both.
   However, in some cases, these embodiments are implemented in computer
   programs executing on programmable computing device each comprising at least
25 one processor, a data storage device (including volatile and non-volatile memory
   and/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device.
   [0046]    For example and without limitation, the computing device may be a
   mainframe computer, a server, a personal computer, a laptop, a personal data
                                           -7-

   assistant, a tablet computer, a smartphone, or a cellular telephone. Program code
   may be applied to input data to perform the functions described herein and
   generate output information. The output information may be applied to one or more
   output devices, in known fashion.
 5 [0047]    Each program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object
   oriented programming and/or scripting language to communicate with a computer
   system. However, the programs can be implemented in assembly or machine
   language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted
   language. Each such program may be stored on a non-transitory storage media or
 0 a device (e.g. ROM or magnetic diskette) readable by a general or special purpose
   programmable computer, for configuring and operating the computer when the
   storage media or device is read by the computer to perform the procedures
   described herein.
   [0048]    The systems and methods as described herein may also be considered to
 5 be implemented as a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, configured
   with a computer program, where the storage medium so configured causes a
   computer to operate in a specific and predefined manner to perform at least some
   of the functions described herein.
   [0049]    Referring to Figure 1, illustrated therein is a system 10 in an exemplary
 0 embodiment for managing information objects in dynamic data storage devices.
   The system 10 comprises a first data storage device 12 and a second data storage
   device 14. Each of the data storage devices 12 and 14 may include volatile or non
   volatile computer memory such as RAM, flash memory, video memory and
   magnetic computer storage devices.
25 [0050]    In some embodiments, the type of memory for first data storage device 12
   and the second data storage device 14 may differ. For example, the first data
   storage device 12 may include a slower hard disk drive (e.g. a persistent data
   storage device) while the second data storage device 14 may include a faster RAM
   (e.g. a dynamic data storage device).
                                           - 8-

   [0051]    In another example, the first data storage device 12 may be RAM and the
   second data storage 14 may be video RAM.
   [0052]    In other embodiments, the type of memory for the data storage devices 12
   and 14 may be the same.
 5 [0053]    In other embodiments, a single memory unit using logical partitions may
   implement both the data storage devices 12 and 14.
   [0054]    The data storage devices 12 and 14 also have a memory size value
   indicative of the amount of memory available for use. This value is generally lower
   than the total memory capacity since other processes running on the computing
 0 device normally use at least some of the memory.
   [0055]    As shown in Figure 2a, the first data storage device 12 may contain a
   plurality of information objects "a" - "x" associated with an application. Each
   information object "a" - "x" may represent content data such as content on a web
   page . In various embodiments, information objects may represent content data
 5 such as folder and file structures, metadata taxonomy classifications, ePortfolio
   (electronic portfolio) artifacts, presentation objects, quiz questions, learning objects,
   search results, activity log items, RSS feed items, analytics reports and data items,
   emails, pages, instant messages, categorized data, and other objects in electronic
   learning systems.
 0 [0056]    As shown, the system 10 also has an output device 16 operatively
   connected to the second data storage device 14. The output device 16 may be a
   display device or any other device that is capable of conveying information to a
   human user. For example, the output device may be a liquid crystal display (LCD),
   an OLED, and so on.
25 [0057]    If the output device 16 is a display device, there may be an associated
   physical size value of the screen (e.g. 21 inches diagonal with a 16:9 aspect ratio)
   and a resolution value indicative of the number of pixels that display is configured to
   display.
                                             -9-

   [0058]    The resolution value and the size value may indicate the amount of
   information objects that may be displayed at the screen at a single time. The output
   device 16 may be operatively connected to the second data storage 14 as known to
   one skilled in the art.
 5 [0059]    The system 10 also has at least one processor 18 operatively connected
   to the data storage devices 12 and 14. In the embodiment as shown, the system 10
   has only one processor. In other embodiments, the system 10 may have more than
   one processor. The at least one processor 18 is operatively connected to the data
   storage devices 12 and 14 as known to one skilled in the art. In some
 0 embodiments, the two or more processors 18 may be configured to operate at least
   partially in parallel. In other embodiments, two or more processors may be
   configured to operate sequentially in stages.
   [0060]    The processor 18 may transfer data between the first data storage device
   12 and the second data storage device 14. There will generally be a rate of transfer
 5 value indicative of the speed of transfer between the first data storage device 12
   and the second data storage device 14. The speed of transfer may vary depending
   on the configuration of the system 10 in various embodiments. For example, if the
   data storage devices 12 and 14 are located on a same computer and connected by
   an internal bus, the rate of the transfer will tend to be much faster than if the data
 0 storage devices 12 and 14 are located on different computers and connected
   through a communication network.
   [0061]    In the latter case, the speed of transfer between the data storage devices
   12 and 14 may also be highly dependent on the speed of the communication
   network. For example, if the data storage devices 12 and 14 are connected through
25 an IEEE 802.11 "WiFi" network (e.g. a 802.11g or 802.11n network), the speed of
   transfer would likely be faster than if the data storage device 12 and 14 were
   connected by a cellular 3G network.
   [0062]    The processor 18 is configured to automatically divide the plurality of
   information objects "a" - "x" to form at least one data subdivision based on division
                                          - 10-

   criteria. Referring to Figure 2b, illustrated therein is an exemplary division of the
   plurality of information objects "a" - "x" contained in the first data storage device 12
   into data subdivisions 1 - 6.
   [0063]     Each data subdivision may comprise a subset of the plurality of
 5 information objects. In the embodiment as shown in Figure 2b, the subdivision 1
   comprises information objects "a" - "d".
   [0064]     In another embodiment, the data subdivision may comprise metadata
   associated with the information objects within the data subdivision. For example, as
   shown in Figure 2b, the data subdivision 1 includes metadata labeled "a - d", which
 0 indicates that this data subdivision is associated with the information objects "a",
   "b", "c" and "d".
   [0065]     Using metadata to represent data subdivisions may be performed in cases
   where there is a large number information objects in each data subdivision. It may
   also be performed in cases where the size of the contents of each data subdivision
 5 is large. In general, using metadata to represent the contents of the data
   subdivision may be used when it is undesirable to transfer the contents into the
   second memory unless it is necessary to do so.
   [0066]     The division criteria may include the memory size value indicative of
   available memory size for the second data storage device 14. For example, it will
 0 normally not be efficient to subdivide the information objects into data subdivisions
   when each of which is larger than the available memory size of the second data
   storage device.
   [0067]     It may also generally be desirable to divide the information objects into
   data subdivisions sized much less than the available size to provide flexibility such
25 that multiple data subdivisions may be loaded into the second data storage device
   14.
   [0068]     The division criteria may also include the speed of transfer between the
   first data storage device 12 and the second data storage device 14. In cases where
   the transfer speed is relatively low, it may be desirable to have more data
                                           -11  -

   subdivisions with the size of each data subdivision being relatively small. This tends
   to permit a more selective transmission of the data. Similarly, in situations where
   the cost of transmission is relatively expensive, it may be preferable to have more
   data subdivisions with the size of each subdivision being relatively small.
 5 [0069]    The division criteria may also include characteristics of the output device
   connected to the second data storage device 14. For example, if the amount of
   information that can be displayed on a display screen is relatively limited, it may be
   desirable to have smaller data subdivisions.
   [0070]    The division criteria may also include preference settings provided by a
 0 user. For example, the user may wish to have a smaller number of large data
   subdivisions, or a larger number data subdivisions based on personal preference.
   The user may also prefer to have the data subdivisions include metadata instead of
   information objects.
   [0071]    The processor 18 may be further configured to repeatedly (in response to
 5 dynamic operating conditions) determine a relevance value of at least one of the
   data subdivisions in the first data storage device 12 and the second data storage
   device 14 indicative of the relevance of those data subdivision to the user and
   based on the relevance value, either loading those data subdivision to the second
   data storage device 14, or unloading those data subdivision from the second data
 o storage device 14. For example, as shown in Figure 3, subdivisions 2 and 6 are
   currently loaded in the second data storage 14.
   [0072]    Dynamic operating conditions include various factors that may prompt the
   processor to determine the relevance value of the data subdivisions. For example,
   the dynamic operating condition may include user interaction with the information
25 objects that are currently displayed or requested. For example, if a user requests an
   information object, it may prompt the processor to determine the relevance value of
   that information objects and perhaps additional information objects.
                                          - 12-

   [0073]    In another example, the dynamic operating condition may be a time factor
   such that the processor is prompted to re-determine the relevance value of the data
   subdivisions periodically.
   [0074]    In yet another example, the dynamic operating condition may include a
 5 change in the system such as a change in the value of available memory size of the
   second data storage device 14.
   [0075]    In some embodiments, the processor 18 may be configured to re-divide
   the plurality of information objects in the first data storage in response to a dynamic
   operating condition.
 0 [0076]    The relevance value of each of the data subdivisions in the data storage
   devices 12 and 14 may reflect the favorability of loading or unloading respective
   data subdivisions from the data storage devices 12 and 14. For example, the
   system may load data subdivisions that are above a relevance threshold and
   unload data subdivisions that are under a relevance threshold.
 5 [0077]    The relevance value is indicative of the relevance of those data
   subdivisions to the user of the system. By having relevant data subdivisions in the
   second data storage device 14, the system 10 may improve the performance of the
   system.
   [0078]    In some embodiments, the relevance value of each data subdivision may
 0 be determined based on the amount of user interaction with that data subdivision
   and/or the system.
   [0079]    In some embodiments, the value of each data subdivision may be
   determined based on the type of user interaction with that data subdivision and/or
   the system.
25 [0080]    In some embodiments, the value of each subdivision may be determined
   based on the method by which a user interacts with that data subdivision and/or the
   system.
                                           - 13-

   [0081]    In some embodiments, the value of each data subdivision may be
   determined based on the behavioral characteristics of the user interaction with that
   data subdivision and/or the system.
   [0082]    Referring now to Figures 4a and 4b, illustrated therein is a scenario
 5 wherein a user is interested in tab 2 and tab 6 and is flipping back and forth
   between the tabs 2, 6. In Figure 4a, the output device 16 is showing tab 2, and in
   Figure 4b, the output device 16 is showing tab 6. Each of the tab 2 and tab 6 is
   displaying information objects in subdivision 2 and subdivision 6 respectively. The
   user interaction with tabs 2 and 6 will increase the relevance value of the
 0 subdivision containing information objects being displayed in tabs 2 and 6.
   [0083]    In other words, as the user clicks on each tab to view the information
   objects contained therein, the relevance value of the data subdivision containing the
   information objects is increased. The increase in the relevance value will be above
   the threshold such that the data subdivisions 2 and 6 are kept loaded in the second
 5 data storage device 14.
   [0084]    Referring to Figure 5a, data subdivisions 1 - 4 are in the second data
   storage device 14. The output device 16 is displaying information objects "e" to "I",
   which are in data subdivisions 3 and 4. The user may be scrolling or paging
   downwards as indicated. The user interaction with the data subdivision, in this case
 0 the act of scrolling downwards, suggests that the user may be interested in
   information objects contained in data subdivision 4 - 6 in the near future.
   [0085]    The relevance value of data subdivision 1 will be reduced based on this
   user interaction while relevance value of data subdivisions 4 - 6 being increased.
   Depending on relative values of specific relevance values, such amendments to the
25 relevance values may cause data subdivision 1 to be unloaded from the second
   data storage device 14 and data subdivision 5 to be loaded into the second data
   storage 14 as shown in Figure 5b.
   [0086]    The relevance value of each data subdivision may also be determined
   based on user preference settings or system settings. For example, a user may
                                         - 14 -

   prefer to have all subdivisions loaded into the second data storage device 14. In
   such cases, the relevance value of all subdivisions may be modified such that all (or
   at least a substantial portion) of them are above the threshold to load into the
   second data storage device 14.
 5 [0087]     The relevance value of each subdivision may also be affected by a
   temporal value indicative of the length of time the data subdivision has been in the
   second data storage device 14. For example, the relevance value of each data
   subdivision will be decreased as time passes. The processor may unload data
   subdivisions that have been there for an extended period of time based on such a
 O decrease in relevance values. However, if the data subdivision is requested or
   interacted upon by the user, the increase in relevance value due to user interaction
   will more than offset the decrease due to time value, thus keeping the data
   subdivision above the threshold and in the second data storage device 14.
   [0088]     The threshold to load or unload data subdivisions in accordance with their
 5 respective relevance values may also be modified based on user preference
   settings and/or system parameters. For example, if the rate of transmission
   between the first data storage device 12 and the second data storage 14 is
   relatively slow, the threshold may be lowered such that more data subdivisions are
   being loaded into the second data storage device 14. This may reduce wait time if
 0 the user request information objects from the subdivision that has been loaded
   because of the reduction in the threshold. If the user prefers to have all the
   information objects loaded into the second data storage device 14, the threshold
   might be floored such that all data subdivisions are loaded regardless of the
   relevance value.
25 [0089]     In some embodiments, at least some processing and/or transmitting may
   occur in the background while one set of values is being displayed. For example,
   while a user is interacting with one set of data, additional sets of data could be
   loaded in the background. Alternatively, if only metadata was retrieved initially, then
   background processing could be using to grab an entire object associated with the
30 metadata. In some embodiments, predictive pre-fetching of additional data could
                                          - 15-

   also be performed based on recent actions (e.g. actions taken by the user) or
   based on data that has been gathered about the user (or users in general) in order
   to create an improved (e.g. faster, more responsive, etc.) user experience.
   [0090]    In another example, the amount of available memory size in the second
 5 data storage device 14 may also affect the threshold. Generally, it may be possible
   to achieve the same effect as increasing or decreasing of the threshold by
   modifying the relevance values of all (or at least some of) the data subdivisions.
   [0091]    The relevance value may be calculated based on a number of factors. In
   some embodiments, a relevance value may be a numerical value.
 0 [0092]    Referring to Figure 6, illustrated therein is a graph of a relevance value of
   an exemplary data subdivision at different times. At time t1, the data subdivision
   was requested by the user, which increased the relevance value of the data
   subdivision to a maximum of 100. The relevance value then is decreased over time
   between times t1 and t2. At time t2, the relevance value fell below the threshold of
 5 50 and therefore was unloaded from the second data storage device 14.
   [0093]    However, at time t3, the relevance value was increased, for example due
   to a user interaction event. Since the relevance value at time t3 is above the
   threshold, it is loaded to the second data storage device 14. The relevance value
   then decreases again over time, and at time t4, it was unloaded from the second
 0 data storage device 14.
   [0094]    Referring now to Figure 7, illustrated therein is an exemplary display
   screen displaying a combination of metadata about data subdivisions and
   information objects in data subdivisions. As shown, metadata about information
   objects contained in a data subdivision are listed on the left side of the screen. Data
25 subdivisions 2 and 6 are currently selected thus the information objects "e" - "h"
   and "u" - "x" are displayed. In the second data storage device 14, metadata relating
   to all subdivisions 1 - 6 and information objects relating to subdivision 2 and 6 are
   loaded.
                                           - 16-

   [0095]    Whether information objects associated with a data subdivision are loaded
   may be determined by the relevance value of the subdivision. In this case, because
   the user has interacted with the subdivisions 2 and 6 to view the objects, the
   relevance value of these data subdivisions has been increased, such that
 5 information objects associated with the data subdivisions are loaded. If another
   subdivision is selected and expended, the relevance value of the other data
   subdivision will be increased such that the information objects associated with that
   data subdivision is loaded.
   [0096]    If a data subdivision that has been previous loaded is minimized, the user
 0 action of minimizing may reduce the relevance value of the data subdivision. As
   stated above, the temporal factor will also reduce the relevance value of the data
   subdivisions in the second data storage device 14. If the relevance value of the
   data subdivision is reduced to below a certain threshold, the data subdivision will be
   unloaded from the second data storage device 14.
 5 [0097]    Referring now to Figure 8, illustrated therein is a system 30 according to
   another embodiment. The system 30 is similar in some aspects to the system 10,
   and like elements are indicated by like numerals. The system 30 comprises a
   server computer 32 and a client computer 40. The server computer 32 has a first
   data storage device 12 and a first processor 18a operatively connected to the first
 0 processor 18a. The client computer 40 has a second data storage device 14, which
   is operatively connected to a second processor 18b and an output device 16. The
   server computer 32 and the client computer 40 are operatively connected to each
   other such that information objects stored in the first data storage device 12 may be
   transferred to the second data storage device 14.
25 [0098]    The first processor 18a is configured to automatically divide the plurality of
   information objects in the first data storage device to form at least one data
   subdivision based on division criteria (similar to the processor 18 in system 10).
   [0099]    The second processor 18b is configured to repeatedly (in response to a
   dynamic operating condition) determine a relevance value of at least one of the
                                          - 17-

   data subdivisions in the first data storage device and the second data storage
   device indicative of the relevance of those data subdivision to the user, and based
   on the relevance value, perform at least one of (i) loading those data subdivision to
   the second data storage 14, and (ii) unloading those data subdivision from the
 5 second data storage 14. This is similar to the processor 18 in system 10.
   [00100] Referring now to Figure 9, illustrated therein is a system 50 according to
   another embodiment. The system 50 is similar to the system 10 in some aspects,
   and like elements are indicated by like numbers.
   [00101] The system 50 includes one or more general data storage devices 52,
 0 which has been logically partitioned into a first data storage device 12 and a second
   data storage device 14. The system 50 also include a processor 18 and an output
   device 16 operatively connected to the processor 18 and the second data storage
   device 14.
   [00102] The general data storage device 52 may be any type of computer
 5 memory. As shown the data storage device has been partitioned to form the first
   data storage device 12 and the second data storage device 14. This may be a
   physical partition or a logical partition. For example, the information objects located
   in the first data storage device 12 may be compressed such that it is not possible
   for an application to access the information objects without uncompressing, which
 0 may be done as the subdivisions are transferred to the second data storage device
    14. In another example, the information objects located in the first data storage
   device 12 may not be in an appropriate format such that it is not possible for an
   application to access the information objects without pre-formatting, which may be
   done as subdivisions are transferred to the second data storage device 14.
25 [00103] In some embodiments, the system for managing information objects in
   dynamic data storage devices may be performed by a computing device running an
    Internet browser application. The web pages that the browser displays may include
   instructions to program the processor for managing information objects in dynamic
   data storage devices as described above using Java Scripting language.
                                            - 18-

   [00104] In some embodiments, potential implementations could include a flash
   application, a silverlight application, through         a video player with     "ffw/rev",
   "next/prev" and chapter selection as input options, client-server applications (which
   could be implements on a computer, gaming system, mobile device, and so on), or
 5 as a game where options within the game are loaded on demand.
   [00105] Referring now to Figure 10, illustrated therein is a method 100 for
   managing information objects in dynamic data storage devices according to another
   embodiment. The method may be employed in a system such as the systems 10,
   30, and/or 50 as described herein.
 0 [00106] The method 100 starts at step 102 wherein the method automatically
   divide the plurality of information objects in a first data storage device using at least
   one processor to form at least one data subdivision based on division criteria. The
   at least one processor is operatively coupled to the first data storage device and a
   second data storage device, and the second data storage is connectable to an
 5 output device for providing at least some of the information objects to at least one
   user. The division criteria may be similar to the division criteria as described herein
   above.
   [00107] The method 100 then proceeds to step 104, wherein the method 100, in
   response to a dynamic operating condition, uses at least one processor to
 0 determine a relevance value of at least one of the data subdivisions in the first data
   storage device and the second data storage device. The relevance values of the
   data subdivisions are indicative of the relevance of those data subdivisions to the
   user. The dynamic operating condition and the relevance values may be similar to
   the dynamic operating condition and the relevance value as described herein
25 above.
   [00108] The method 100 then proceeds to step 106, wherein the method 100,
   based on the relevance values of the data subdivisions, performs at least one of
   loading those data subdivisions to the second data storage, or unloading those data
   subdivisions from the second data storage.
                                           - 19-

  [00109] While the steps of the above methods have been described sequentially
  hereinabove, it should be noted that sequential performance of the steps may not
  need to occur for successful implementation of the method. As will be evident to
  one skilled in the art, rearranging sequence of performance of the steps, omitting
5 the performance of some steps, or performing the steps in parallel may be possible
  without abandoning the essence of the invention.
  [00110] While certain features have been illustrated and described herein, many
  modifications, substitutions, changes, and equivalents will now occur to those of
  ordinary skill in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims
0 are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit
  of the invention.
                                            - 20 -

CLAIMS:
1. A system for managing information objects in dynamic data storage devices comprising:
   a) a first data storage device having a plurality of information objects;
   b) a second data storage device operatively connectable to an output device for
       providing at least some of the information objects to at least one user; and
   c) at least one processor operatively coupled to the first data storage device and the
      second data storage device, the at least one processor configured to:
       i) automatically divide the plurality of information objects in the first data storage
           device to form at least one data subdivision based on division criteria; and
       ii) repeatedly, in response to a dynamic operating condition:
           (1) determine a relevance value of at least one of the data subdivisions in the first
               data storage device and the second data storage device indicative of the
               relevance of those data subdivision to the user; and
           (2) based on the relevance value, perform at least one of loading those data
               subdivision to the second data storage, or unloading those data subdivision
               from the second data storage.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to load
   the at least one of the data subdivisions to the second data storage when the relevance
   value associated with those data subdivisions is outside a threshold.
                                           - 21 -

3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to
   unload the at least one of the data subdivisions from the second data storage when the
   relevance value associated with those data subdivisions is outside a threshold.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to re
   divide the plurality of information objects in response to the dynamic operating
   condition.
5.  The system of claim 1, wherein each data subdivision comprises at least one of a
   subset of the plurality of information objects, and metadata associated with at least one
   of the plurality of information objects.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the whether each data subdivision comprises metadata
   associated with at least one of the plurality of information objects, or whether each data
   subdivision comprises the plurality of information objects is based on the quantity of
   information objects to be displayed.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein when the data subdivision comprises metadata, the at
   least one of the plurality information objects associated with that data subdivision is
   loaded to the second data storage device based on the relevance value of that
   subdivision.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein when the data subdivision comprises metadata, the at
   least one of the plurality information objects associated with that data subdivision is
                                             - 22 -

   unloaded from the second data storage device based on the relevance value of that
   data subdivision.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the division criteria includes a memory size value
   indicative of available memory size for the second data storage device.
1O.The system of claim 1, wherein when the output device is display device, the
   predetermined division criteria include a display size value indicative of the size of the
   output display.
11.The system of claim 1, wherein the division criteria include the size of the at least one
   data subdivision.
12.The system of claim 1, wherein the division criteria include the speed of transfer
   between the first data storage device and the second data device.
13.The system of claim 1, wherein the division criteria include preference settings, the
   preference settings being indicative of the user's preference as to at least one of the
   data subdivision of the information objects based on division criteria and determination
   of the relevance value.
14.The system of claim 1, wherein the relevance value of the at least one data subdivision
   is determined based on interaction frequency value indicative of the frequency of user
   interaction with that data subdivision.
                                            - 23 -

15.The system of claim 1, wherein the relevance value of the at least one data subdivision
    is determined based on preference settings, the preference settings being indicative of
    the user's preference as to at least one of the subdivision of the information objects
    based on division criteria and determination of the relevance value.
16.The system of claim 1, wherein the relevance value of the at least one data subdivision
    is determined based on a temporal value indicative of the length of time that data
    subdivision has been in the second data storage device.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the relevance value of the at least one data subdivision
    is determined based on speed of transfer between the first data storage device and the
    second data storage device.
18.The system of claim 1, wherein the relevance value of the at least one data subdivision
    is based on the size of the data subdivision.
19.The system of claim 1 wherein the first data storage device is located on a server
    computer and the second data storage device is located on a client computer, the
    server computer and client computer being operatively connected.
20.The system of claim 1 wherein the first data storage device and the second data
    storage device are located on a client computer.
                                             - 24 -

21.The system of claim 14 wherein the first data storage device and the second data
   storage device are logical partitions of a single data storage device.
22.The system of claim 14, wherein the information objects in the first data storage device
   are in a first format, and the data subdivisions in the second data storage device are in
   a second format.
23.The system of claim 14, wherein the information objects in the first data storage device
   are compressed, and the data subdivisions in the second data storage device are not
   compressed.
24.The system of claim 1, wherein the division criteria include the processing capabilities of
   the processor.
25.The system of claim 1, wherein the division criteria include the capabilities of software
   configured to run on the processor that is to interpret the data.
26.A method for managing          information objects in dynamic data storage devices
   comprising:
   automatically dividing the plurality of information objects in the first data storage device
   using at least one processor to form at least one data subdivision based on division
   criteria, the processor being operatively coupled to the first data storage device and a
   second data storage device, the second data storage being connectable to an output
   device for providing at least some of the information objects to at least one user;
                                              - 25 -

repeatedly, in response to a dynamic operating condition using at least one processor
to:
    determine a relevance value of at least one of the data subdivisions in the first data
    storage device and the second data storage device indicative of the relevance of
    those data subdivisions to the user; and
    based on the relevance value, perform at least one of loading those data
    subdivisions to the second data storage, or unloading those data subdivisions from
    the second data storage.
                                         - 26 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
