                                           - 48
                  Improvements in and Relating to Sample Measurement
                                          Abstract
A sampling plate (1) is provided comprising a sample zone (2) for receiving a liquid sample,
and two drive electrodes (3, 4) with separate respective electrode terminals spaced by a
spacing for receiving a the liquid sample within the sample zone for use in driving an
electrical signal through the sample.    Two sensing electrodes (5, 6) are provided with
separate respective electrode terminals spaced between the electrode terminals of the two
drive electrodes for use in sensing an electrical signal generated by the drive electrodes
within a the sample. A sampling apparatus (15) is provided for use with the plate.
[Fig.1]

WO 2013/153406                                                       PCT/GB2013/050957
                                               1/6
                                               5    6
                                                      2
                                 4                    3
                7             8                   9    10
                            11                  12    13      14
                             19                        20    ~17
               16,
                       18                                 21
                                                          23
                -----------    ---------------                   7-j
                        Output (HCT or HbAlc)                    15
                                         FIG. 1
                SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

                                               -1
                   Improvements in and Relating to Sample Measurement
[0001]     The present invention relates to a sample measurement system. In particular, the
present invention relates to the measurement of properties of liquid samples of (or
containing) blood. In particular the invention relates to a sample measurement system for
measuring certain selected properties of a liquid substrate, such as the glucose levels in a
blood sample. The invention also relates to a sampling plate, a measurement device, a data
carrier containing software to operate the measurement device.
[0002]     There is a widespread need for improving the accuracy of sample measurement
systems such as those enabling e.g. a diabetes sufferer to know their blood sugar levels
i.e. the concentration of glucose in their blood.
[0003]     Existing sample measurement systems use a measurement device which receives
and takes measurement readings from a sampling plate spotted with a blood sample from a
user. The sampling plate is often rectangular and is end-loaded with the blood sample. The
blood sample, once loaded, is usually drawn into a sample zone having a number of
sampling zones from which measurements are taken by the system.
[0004]     Each sampling zone typically has its own particular contents. For example, the
first sampling zone may have a glucose oxidase deposit within it, a second deposit
comprising a mixture of glucose oxidase and a predetermined amount of glucose, while a
third sampling zone may contain no deposit. As the blood sample is drawn over all three
sampling zones, chemical reactions occur with the deposits in each sampling zone, resulting
in discrete electrolytes. Each sampling zone bridges a corresponding pair of electrodes. A
potential difference is established across each sampling zone, via the electrodes, when the
sampling plate is inserted into an operating measurement device. Electric current readings
for each sampling zone then provide measurements necessary to assess the blood sugar
(glucose) levels. For instance, the first sampling zone may give the primary measurement,
whereas the second sampling zone may provide a degree of calibration since a known
quantity of glucose was already present there. The third zone may give a final check by
accounting for the non-glucose contribution to the measurements in the first and second
sampling zones.
[0005]     However, in spite of these calibrations and final checks, error margins in such
blood glucose readings are still high. Indeed, blood glucose levels are strongly influenced by
the fluctuating and transient glucose levels in the plasma of the blood sample, which may not

                                                 -2
be representative of the long-term blood glucose levels of the patient and may, rather, simply
indicate a recent transient rise or drop in blood glucose levels within the blood plasma of the
patient e.g. due to recent food consumption of other short-term environmental factors.
[0006]     The preferred embodiments of the present invention aim to address this.
[0007]      Blood plasma is the liquid component of blood in which the blood cells in whole
blood are normally suspended. Blood plasma typically constitutes about 55% of the total
volume of the blood. It is the extracellular fluid part of blood and is mostly water but contains
dissolved glucose and other contents.
[0008]     The volume percentage of red blood cells in blood is known as the haematocrit
(HCT). Other terms for this are the packed cell volume (PCV) or erythrocyte volume fraction
(EVF). Haematocrit is normally about 45% for men and 40% for women. The haematocrit is
typically calculated by multiplying the red blood cell count in a blood sample by the average
cell volume, then dividing the result by the whole blood sample volume.
[0009]      Glycated haemoglobin (a.k.a. haemoglobin Alc, HbAlc, or just Alc) is a form of
haemoglobin measured primarily to identify the average plasma glucose concentration over
prolonged periods of time. It is formed in a non-enzymatic glycation pathway by
hemoglobin's exposure to plasma glucose. Normal levels of glucose produce a normal
amount of glycated hemoglobin. As the average amount of plasma glucose increases, the
fraction of glycated hemoglobin increases. This serves as a marker for average blood
glucose levels over the previous months prior to the measurement. Liquid chromatography
and capillary electrophoresis are two ways of measuring glycated haemoglobin (HbAlc).
Both methods are complex, expensive and wholly unsuited for easy and simple
implementation by a patient.
[0010]     At its most general, the invention in one aspect is a system (method and/or
apparatus) to measure haematocrit of a liquid sample containing blood according to the
electrical impedance (e.g., resistance and reactance) it has in response to an alternating
electrical potential difference applied across the sample. The measured haematocrit maybe
used to improve the accuracy of blood glucose measurements of the blood in another aspect
of the invention. It has been found that applying an alternating potential difference (voltage)
across such a sample results in a resistance and/or a reactance which is surprisingly
responsive to haematocrit. The invention exploits this finding. The presence of red blood
cells within a blood sample complicates the interpretation of blood glucose measurements

                                                   -3
using existing methods. The invention may remove or reduce that complication to enable
more accurate blood glucose measurements to be made. At its most general, the invention
in another aspect is a system (method and/or apparatus) to measure a level of glycated
haemoglobin (HbA1c) in a liquid sample containing blood according to the electrical
impedance (e.g., resistance and reactance) it has in response to an alternating electrical
potential difference applied across the sample. It has been found that applying an
alternating potential difference (voltage) across such a sample results in a resistance and/or
a reactance which is surprisingly responsive to HbA1 c of the sample. The preferred
embodiments of the invention exploit this finding.
[0011]     In a first of its aspects, the invention may provide a sampling plate comprising a
sample zone for receiving a liquid sample. The sampling plate may have two drive
electrodes with separate respective electrode terminals spaced by a spacing for receiving
the liquid sample within the sample zone for use in driving an electrical signal through the
sample. Two sensing electrodes may be provided with separate respective electrode
terminals spaced between the electrode terminals of the two drive electrodes for use in
sensing an electrical signal generated by the drive electrodes within a the sample.
[0012]     Herein, a "sampling plate" may mean any surface capable of receiving a liquid
sample in a sample zone. Preferably, however, the sampling plate is portable. Suitably the
sampling plate may cover an area less than 1 M 2 , preferably less than 50 cm 2 , more
preferably less than 10 cm 2 and most preferably less than 5 cm2 . The sampling plate may
cover an area less than 500 mm 2       - for instance 350 mm 2 where the sampling plate is 10 mm
wide by 35 mm long. Suitably the sampling plate may be rectangular. The sampling plate
may be a strip, and may be a flexible strip. Preferably, however, the sampling plate is an
individual plate, preferably a rigid sampling plate. The thickness of the sampling plate is
preferably less than 1 cm, preferably less than 1 mm, more preferably less than 0.5 mm,
most preferably less than 0.25 mm.
[0013]     The sampling plate is preferably compatible with a measurement device. For
example, the measurement device is preferably operable to communicate with the sampling
plate to measure one or more selected properties of the sample. Preferably the sampling
plate may be inserted into the measurement device to allow measurements to be taken.
[0014]     The two sensing electrode terminals may present to each other opposing sides
which define between them an elongated sensing gap extending along the sample zone for
receiving at least parts of the sample therein. The sensing electrode terminals may be

                                                 -4
substantially flat and side-by-side to define a substantially flat sensing gap. The width of the
two sensing electrode terminals is preferably the same. That width is preferably about
double the size of the sensing gap between them.
[0015]      The two drive electrode terminals may present to each other opposing sides which
define between them an elongated drive gap extending along the sample zone for receiving
at least parts of the sample therein whereby the drive electrodes are adapted to drive
electrical signal transversely across the drive gap. The drive electrode terminals may be
substantially flat and side-by-side to define a substantially flat drive gap.
[0016]      The sensing gap may extend along the drive gap. The sensing gap and/or the
drive gap may preferably have a substantially uniform width along at least a part of its length.
[0017]      A drive electrode terminal and an adjacent sensing electrode terminal may be
arranged in/on the sampling plate so that they present to each other opposing sides which
define between them an elongated partitioning gap. Preferably, this partitioning gap extends
along the sample zone to define a partition between those adjacent terminals within the
sample zone. This may apply to each of the drive electrode terminals and their respective
adjacent/neighbouring sensing electrode terminal.
[0018]      The partitioning gap preferably has a substantially uniform width along at least a
part of its length, preferably substantially all of its length. Each partitioning gap width is
preferably the same size. Preferably the partitioning gap width is about 1 times the width
of the sensing gap.
[0019]      The sensing electrode terminals may be formed on a surface of the sensing plate
within the sample zone. Preferably, the drive electrode terminals are formed on a surface of
the sensing plate in common with the sensing electrode terminals within the sensing zone.
The electrodes may be formed upon the sampling plate by a known printing process.
However, for a better degree of accuracy or consistency a technique known as laser ablating
is preferably used to remove electrode material (e.g. Gold) formed as a sheet/coating onto a
surface of the sampling plate, where the electrode gaps are required. Preferably, in
production, conductive electrode material may be laid down on a surface area on one side of
the sampling plate with no gap features, and the gaps may then be laser ablated to define
the electrodes.
[0020]      The sampling plate is preferably arranged to be detachably attachable electrically
to electrical apparatus adapted for supplying the drive current to the drive electrodes and for

                                                  -5
taking measurements via the sensing electrodes. In this regard, preferably each of the drive
electrodes and each of the sensing electrodes is in electrical communication with respective
electrical contacts provided on the sampling plate which are exposed for electrical
connection simultaneously with an external drive current source and external sensing
circuitry, respectively, of such an apparatus.
[0021]      Preferably, the width of the sensing gap is greater than about 90 microns and less
than about 160 microns. Preferably the width of the partitioning gap is about 1.5 times the
width of the sensing gap. An alternating potential difference is preferably applied across a
gap between two electrodes designed to be bridged by a sample being measured. It has
been found that a careful dimensioning of the sensing gap and the drive gap enhances the
accuracy of haematocrit measurement greatly, and also permits HbA1 c to be measured.
The gap size is preferably substantially smaller than a gap size between electrodes typically
employed in existing systems designed to measure blood glucose. Preferably, the sensing
gap is wider than the average width of a human red blood cell, but less than the average
width of two such cells.
[0022]      It is postulated, but not asserted, that the sensing gap serves to form a generally
linear array of red blood cells along it in which the array is generally one cell in width - this
being constrained by the width of the sensing gap - and that the parts of the sensing gap not
occupied by red blood cells are occupied by blood plasma. Blood plasma is typically more
electrically conductive than are red blood cells at certain electrical signal frequencies. By
applying an oscillating voltage, red blood cells remain mobile (e.g. oscillate) within the gap
and may not coat one or other of the electrodes. The result may be that there is maintained
within the sensing gap a defined linear array of red blood cells mobile within conductive
blood plasma. The proportion of red blood cells within the gap, relative to the quantity of
blood plasma there, influences the quantity of electrically conductive pathways (through
plasma, around blood cells) available to currents applied. This may manifest itself as an
electrical impedance value (e.g. resistance, reactance) determined by a haematocrit value
and/or an HbAlc value, as has been observed.
[0023]      The sample zone may comprise a reagent to react with free glucose in the liquid
sample. This may be so when the sampling plate is intended for use in measuring a value
representing the concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbAlc) in the liquid sample as
described below. The reagent may be a deposit formed on one (e.g. exclusively) of the drive
electrodes in the sample zone (e.g. the one for use as an anode) to be directly accessible to

                                                -6
a sample therein. The deposit may be in the form of an ink or paste. Preferred reagents are
oxidising agents. Most preferred are enzymes and especially preferred are glucose oxidase
(GOx) and glucose dehydrogenase (GDH). Where no such reagent is present, the sampling
plate may be used for measuring haematocrit as described below.
[0024]     The sampling plate may comprise a further sample zone containing a pair of drive
electrodes as described above, and a pair of sensing electrodes as described above. The
further sample zone may be free of any reagent and be intended for use in measuring HCT
of a blood sample, while the other sample zone may contain the reagent and be intended for
concurrent or sequential measurement of HbAlc of the same sample.
[0025]     Alternatively, the drive electrode terminals of the further sample zone may
comprise only one pair of drive electrodes which may present to each other, across a
respective spacing, opposing electrode sides extending along the sample zone. The further
sample zone may contain the reagent and be intended for use in measuring blood glucose
levels within the plasma of a blood sample. These opposing sides may define between them
a drive gap for receiving a sample therein. This spacing may define a gap which is preferably
greater than about 200 microns in width, and may be between 200 microns and 400 microns
in width. This dimensioning has been found to be preferable for the electrodes in sampling
zones containing the reagent to react with free glucose in the liquid sample, and for
measuring a current generated in response to a direct (DC) drive voltage applied across the
drive gap. The measured current may be used to determine a measure of the glucose in the
blood plasma of the sample.
[0026]     The opposing sides in the pair of drive electrodes of the further sample zone may
be of unequal length. They may be curved. One side may be convex and the opposing side
reciprocally concave and of greater length than the convex side. Preferably the electrode
with the longer side is used as the cathode of the pair. This is preferable in view of the
greater gap size in each further pair of electrodes. It has been found that electrical currents
driven across those wider gaps through a blood sample are more prone to diffuse in a
direction along the gap rather than flowing directly across the gap un-deviated. In order to
better capture diffused charges (current) in the blood sample the electrode to which the
charges flow when a direct (DC) voltage is applied between the electrodes, has the longer
edge. The spacing of the drive gap may be substantially uniform along at least a part of its
length.

                                                -7
[0027]      In a second of its aspects, the invention may provide a sampling apparatus for use
in performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample containing blood, including two
current output terminals for outputting an alternating current signal applied therebetween,
and an alternating electrical current unit in electrical communication with the two current
output terminals for applying thereto an alternating electrical current of a given amplitude
and frequency when a liquid sample is in electrical connection between the two current
output terminals.
[0028]      The sampling apparatus may include a voltage unit in electrical communication
with the two current output terminals for applying therebetween a direct (DC), being most
preferably a substantially constant (DC), electrical potential difference of a given magnitude.
A first voltage input terminal may be provided for receiving a first electrical signal externally
input thereto and a separate second voltage input terminal for receiving a second electrical
signal externally input thereto when the liquid sample is in electrical connection between the
first and second voltage input terminals. The apparatus may include voltage detector(s) for
measuring a first voltage and a second voltage using said first and second electrical signals,
respectively.
[0029]      A control unit may be arranged in the sampling apparatus to control the electrical
current unit to apply the alternating electrical current of given frequency and concurrently to
control the voltage unit and the voltage detector(s) to measure the first and second voltages
both when the direct (e.g. substantially constant) DC electrical potential difference is applied
and when the direct DC electrical potential difference is not applied.
[0030]      A calculating unit may be arranged in the sampling apparatus to calculate a first
electrical impedance (e.g. reactance) value using the first and second voltages measured
when the direct (e.g. substantially constant) DC electrical potential difference is applied, and
to calculate a second electrical impedance (e.g. reactance) value measured when the direct
DC electrical potential difference is not applied.
[0031]      The calculating unit may be arranged in the sampling apparatus to generate a
value representing the concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbAlc) in the liquid sample
according to the first electrical reactance value, the second electrical reactance value and a
value representing the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit,
HCT).

                                                  -8
[0032]      The calculating unit may be arranged to generate a value representing the
concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) in the blood within the sample according to
the first electrical reactance value, the second electrical reactance value and a value of the
relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit, HCT) according to the
following formula, and store the result and/or to output the result to the user:
 HbAlc = 1OOx       1-      X
                    SHCT x X 2)
[0033]      The haematocrit value HCT may be a contemporaneously measured value, such
as measured using a sample of the blood on the sampling plate, or may be a predetermined
value which is generated independently of the sampling unit.
[0034]      The quantity X, is considered to represent the reactance of a blood sample due to
glycated red blood cells in the blood within the first sampling zone from which free glucose
has been substantially oxidized by the reagent, whereas X2 is considered to represent the
reactance of the whole blood sample in which both plasma and red blood cells contain
glucose. The proportion of that reactance due to red blood cells is considered to be
represented by the term (HCT)x(X 2) according to the haematocrit of the sample.
[0035]      The given frequency preferably has a value in the range 500KHz to 1.5MHz, e.g.
about 1MHz. More preferably, the given frequency has a value in the range 750KHz to
1.25MHz, yet more preferably the given frequency has a value in the range 850KHz to
1.15MHz, even more preferably the given frequency has a value in the range 900KHz to
1.1 MHz, yet even more the given frequency has a value in the range 970KHz to 1.03MHz. It
has been found that a frequency of about 1MHz works especially well, and frequencies
reasonably close to this value are desirable, though the ranges given above have been
found to be acceptable in terms of accuracy of measurement in implementing the invention.
The value of the direct (DC) voltage may be a value in the range from about 0.01 volts to
about 1.0 volts, or preferably from about 0.1 volts to about 0.5 volts, or more preferably from
about 0.2 volts to about 0.3 volts - e.g. about 0.25 volts.
[0036]      It is postulated, but not asserted, that the presence of a direct (DC) voltage across
the drive gap, and therefore across the sensing gap, has the effect of polarizing or physically
aligning in a common direction those red blood cells that are not glycated, while the glycated
red blood cells are not forced into this alignment and remain largely unaffected by the direct
voltage applied across the sample. The consequence is felt most keenly when an alternating

                                                  -9
(AC) current is applied to the blood sample while the is concurrently subjected to this DC
voltage. The result is believed to be that the un-glycated red blood cells aligned by the
applied DC voltage are far less responsive to the AC current concurrently applied (i.e. less
able to dynamically interact/oscillate in response to it) than are the glycated red blood cells.
The result is that the portion of the impedance (e.g. reactance) of the blood sample arising
from the un-glycated red blood cells falls dramatically, leaving the glycated red blood cells to
dominate the impedance of the sample. By comparing this impedance value to the
impedance value of the same sample measured when no direct (DC) voltage is applied (and
thus, no un-glycated cell alignment occurs) provides a route to determining the proportion of
glycated red blood cells in the sample and, from that, a measurement of HbAlc.
[0037]      Alternatively, or additionally, the calculating unit may be arranged to generate a
value representing the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit)
according to electrical impedance (e.g. resistance and reactance) values measured thereby
from the sample. The calculating unit may be arranged to generate a value representing the
concentration of glycated haemoglobin in the liquid sample according thereto.
[0038]       In a third aspect, the invention may provide a sampling apparatus for use in
performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample containing blood, the apparatus
comprising two current output terminals for outputting an alternating current signal applied
therebetween, and an alternating electrical current unit in electrical communication with the
two current output terminals for applying therebetween an alternating electrical current of a
given amplitude and frequency, when a liquid sample is in electrical connection between the
two current output terminals.
[0039]      This sampling apparatus may include a first voltage input terminal for receiving a
first electrical signal externally input thereto and a separate second voltage input terminal for
receiving a second electrical signal externally input thereto, when said liquid sample is in
electrical connection between the first and second voltage input terminals, and a voltage
detector(s) for measuring a first voltage and a second voltage using said first and second
electrical signals, respectively.
[0040]      A control unit may be arranged in this sampling apparatus to control the electrical
current unit to apply the alternating electrical current at a first frequency and concurrently to
control the voltage detector(s) to measure the first and second voltages, and to further
control the electrical current unit to apply the alternating electrical current at a second
frequency exceeding the first frequency and concurrently to control the voltage detector(s) to

                                               - 10
measure the first and second voltages. The first frequency may be a value (e.g. 50 KHz)
within a first continuous range of values from about 1KHz to about 150 KHz. More
preferably, the first frequency has a value in the range 25KHz to 125KHz, yet more
preferably the first frequency has a value in the range 35KHz to 100KHz, even more
preferably the first frequency has a value in the range 45KHz to 75KHz, yet even more the
first frequency has a value in the range 47KHz to 53KHz. It has been found that a frequency
of about 50KHz works especially well, and frequencies reasonably close to this value are
desirable, though the ranges given above have been found to be acceptable in terms of
accuracy of measurement in implementing the invention.
[0041]     The second frequency may be a value (e.g. 1 MHz) within a second continuous
range of values from about 500KHz to about 1.5 MHz. More preferably, the second
frequency has a value in the range 750KHz to 1.25MHz, yet more preferably the second
frequency has a value in the range 850KHz to 1.15MHz, even more preferably the second
frequency has a value in the range 900KHz to 1.1MHz, yet even more the second frequency
has a value in the range 970KHz to 1.03MHz. It has been found that a second frequency of
about 1MHz works especially well, and frequencies reasonably close to this value are
desirable, though the ranges given above have been found to be acceptable in terms of
accuracy of measurement in implementing the invention.
[0042]      In general, the preferred range of frequencies, and the preferential frequency
within such a range, is influenced to some extent by geometrical considerations of the
sampling process. Factors such as the size of surface area of conductive
elements/electrodes within a test area of a sampling plate, in relation to the size of surface
area of non-conductive/non-electrode parts between electrodes, can influence the position
and extent of the suitable AC signal frequency ranges. These surface areas may typically
be located within a sampling area, well or zone within a sampling plate which is between
about 0.5mm and 5mm in diameter or width, or more preferably between about 1mm and
3mm, such as about 1.6mm in diameter or width. These dimensions enable a sample size
which is large enough to do reliable measurement upon, but does not result in a sampling
size (or sampling plate size) which is too large for these purposes, or for practical use
generally.
[0043]     This sampling apparatus may include a calculating unit arranged to calculate a first
electrical impedance (e.g. resistance and/or reactance) value using the first and second
voltages measured at the first frequency, and a second electrical impedance (e.g. resistance

                                              - 11
and/or reactance) value and a reactance value using the first and second voltages measured
at the second frequency. The first electrical impedance may be a resistance value (R1 ,
ohms). The second impedance may comprise both a resistive part (R2 , ohms) and a
reactive part (X3 , ohms). The calculating unit may be arranged to generate a value
representing the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit, HCT)
according to the first and second electrical resistance values (R1 , R2) and the electrical
reactance value (X3 ).
[0044]    The sampling apparatus may be arranged to calculate HCT according to the
following equation:
 HCT   =  AIn   R + Bn( X 3 + XO)- C|
                R2)
[0045]    The quantities A, B and C are preferably constants associated with a sampling
plate design in use. For example, the values of A, B and C may each typically be within the
range from about 0.05 to about 0.5, or preferably between about 0.1 and 0.25, or more
preferably between about 0.1 and about 0.2. For example, the electrodes of the sampling
sheet may be formed from a conductive material (e.g. a metal such as Gold) having a sheet
resistance of 5 ohms per square, the values in question may be: A = 0.142; B = 0.155; C =
0.157. The value of the term A has been found to be affected by the electrical properties of
the electrodes of the sampling plate (e.g. drive electrode terminals and/or sensing electrode
terminals) within the sampling zone(s). Different properties such as conductivity (e.g. sheet
resistance), the electrical voltages and currents applied to the electrodes in the sampling
zone(s), and the geometry (e.g. widths) of the drive electrode terminals and sensing
electrode terminals. The value of the term B has been found to be affected by the nature of
the interaction and interface between the blood sample and the sampling strip surface in the
sampling zone. For example, the microscopic surface roughness and the "wetting ability" of
the surface affect the value of this term. Also, the aspect ratio of the electrodes within the
sampling zones (e.g. the blood sample "height" as compared to the area of the electrode
surfaces in the sampling zone over which it is arranged) can affect the value of B - thus, the
three-dimensional geometry (e.g. depth) of the sampling zone plays a role. The term C has
been found to be affected by the geometry of the shape of the sample shape determined by
the shape of the sampling zone, in a way similar to its influence on the term B. The
electrodes may have a sheet resistance in the range from about 2 ohms per square to about
15 ohms per square.

                                                -12
[0046]     Actual values, suited to a given sampling zone geometry and electrode structure
and material, may be determined by routine calibration employing commercially available
blood samples of known HCT, as will be apparent to the skilled person. The value of XO may
simply be zero, or may be adjusted if necessary to improve the predictive accuracy of the
equation.
[0047]     The sampling apparatus may be arranged to generate both the value representing
the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit) as described above,
and to generate the value representing the concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbAlc)
in a liquid sample as described above, using that haematocrit.
[0048]     The sampling apparatus may include the sampling plate described above. For
example, each one of the two drive electrodes of the sampling plate may be adapted to
electrically connect to a respective one of the two current output terminals concurrently.
Furthermore, each one of the two sensing electrodes of the plate may be adapted to
electrically connect to a respective one of the first voltage input terminal and the second
voltage input terminal concurrently, thereby to connect the two drive electrodes and the two
sensing electrodes to the sampling apparatus simultaneously for electrical communication
therewith.
[0049]      In another of its aspects, the invention may provide sampling apparatus (e.g.
measurement device) for use in performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample
containing blood, the apparatus comprising: a first output terminal arranged for outputting an
alternating (AC) electrical current; and a second output terminal arranged outputting a direct
electrical voltage applied thereto (most preferably a substantially constant (DC) voltage); and
voltage input terminals (e.g. two) each for receiving an input electrical voltage signal
externally input thereto; and current input terminals (e.g. two) each for receiving an input
electrical current signal externally input thereto. The apparatus may include a control unit
arranged to apply an alternating electrical current to the first output terminal and concurrently
to measure a first electrical voltage at the voltage input terminals resulting therefrom when a
the liquid sample is in electrical series connection between the first output terminal and a
current input terminal, and arranged to apply a direct voltage (most preferably a substantially
constant electrical (DC) voltage) to the second output terminal and concurrently to measure
a second electrical current at a current input terminal resulting therefrom when a liquid
sample is in electrical series connection between the second output terminal and a current
input terminal. A calculating unit of the apparatus may be arranged to calculate electrical

                                                 - 13
resistance and/or reactance values for the sample using a value of the first electrical current
and a value of the concurrently measured first voltage, and arranged to calculate a first
calculated value representing the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample
(haematocrit) according to the calculated electrical resistance and/or reactance values; and
to calculate a second calculated value representing an amount of glucose in the liquid
sample according to both the first calculated value and the measured second electrical
current, and to output the result. The measured second electrical current may be measured
while the direct (DC) voltage is applied to a sample zone of a sampling plate that contains a
deposit of reagent to react with free glucose in a blood sample when applied there for use in
measuring a first value for blood glucose levels within a blood sample when there. The
alternating current may be applied to a sample zone free of such reagent and for use in
measuring haematocrit within a blood sample when there. The haematocrit value may be
used to improve the first value for blood glucose levels within a blood sample.
[0050]      In a fourth of its aspects, the invention may provide sample measurement method
for performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample containing blood, the method
comprising receiving the liquid sample on a sample plate comprising electrode terminals
which are separated by a spacing adapted to be bridged by blood from the liquid sample and
which comprise a reagent to react with free glucose in the liquid sample, and applying to the
electrodes an alternating electrical current having a given frequency to generate a first
alternating potential difference across the spacing between the electrode terminals. The
method may include also applying between the electrode terminals a substantially constant
(DC) electrical potential difference of a given magnitude, and determining a value of a first
electrical reactance of the liquid sample bridging said spacing for said given frequency, then
removing the substantially constant (DC) electrical potential difference from between the two
electrode terminals. The method may include applying to the electrodes the alternating
electrical current having the given frequency, without the DC potential applied, to generate a
second alternating potential difference across the spacing between the electrode terminals,
and determining a value of a second electrical reactance of the liquid sample bridging the
spacing for the given frequency. The method may include generating a value representing
the concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbAlc) in the blood within the sample according
to the first electrical reactance value, the second electrical reactance value and a value of
the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit). The given
frequency preferably has a value in the range 500KHz to 1.5MHz, e.g. about 1MHz. More
preferably, the given frequency has a value in the range 750KHz to 1.25MHz, yet more
preferably the given frequency has a value in the range 850KHz to 1.15MHz, even more

                                                - 14
preferably the given frequency has a value in the range 900KHz to 1.1 MHz, yet even more
the given frequency has a value in the range 970KHz to 1.03MHz.
[0051]      In a fifth aspect, the invention may provide a sample measurement method for
performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample containing blood, the method
comprising receiving the liquid sample on a sample plate comprising electrode terminals
which are separated by a spacing adapted to be bridged by blood from the liquid sample,
and applying to the electrodes an alternating electrical current having a first signal frequency
to generate a first alternating potential difference across the spacing between the electrode
terminals. This method may include determining a value of a first electrical resistance of the
liquid sample bridging the spacing for the first signal frequency. The method may include
applying to the electrodes an alternating electrical current having a second signal frequency
exceeding the first signal frequency to generate a second alternating potential difference
across the spacing between the electrode terminals, and determining a value of a second
electrical resistance and a value of a reactance of the liquid sample bridging the spacing for
the second signal frequency. This method may include generating a value for the relative
volume of red blood cells (haematocrit) in the liquid sample according to the first electrical
impedance value and the second electrical impedance value. The first frequency preferably
has a value in the range 1KHz to 150KHz, e.g. about 50 KHz. More preferably, the first
frequency has a value in the range 25KHz to 125KHz, yet more preferably the first frequency
has a value in the range 35KHz to 100KHz, even more preferably the first frequency has a
value in the range 45KHz to 75KHz, yet even more the first frequency has a value in the
range 47KHz to 53KHz. The second frequency preferably has a value in the range 500KHz
to 1.5MHz, e.g. about 1MHz. More preferably, the second frequency has a value in the
range 750KHz to 1.25MHz, yet more preferably the second frequency has a value in the
range 850KHz to 1.15MHz, even more preferably the second frequency has a value in the
range 900KHz to 1.1MHz, yet even more the second frequency has a value in the range
970KHz to 1.03MHz.
[0052]     The invention in its fourth aspect may comprise generating a value representing
the concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbAlc) in the blood within the sample using the
value representing the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit)
as generated according to the invention in its fifth aspect.
[0053]      In accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
sampling plate comprising:

                                               -15
            a sample zone for receiving a liquid sample;
            two drive electrodes with separate respective electrode terminals spaced by a
spacing for receiving a said liquid sample within the sample zone for use in driving an
electrical signal through the sample;
            two sensing electrodes with separate respective electrode terminals spaced
between the electrode terminals of the two drive electrodes for use in sensing an electrical
signal generated by the drive electrodes within a said sample.
[0054]     In accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention, there is
provided a sampling apparatus for use in performing electrical measurements on a liquid
sample containing blood, the apparatus comprising:
            two (or more) current output terminals for outputting an alternating current signal
applied therebetween;
            an alternating electrical current unit in electrical communication with the two (or
more) current output terminals for applying thereto an alternating electrical current of a given
amplitude and frequency when a said liquid sample is in electrical connection between the
two (or more) current output terminals;
            a voltage unit in electrical communication with the two (or more) current output
terminals for applying therebetween a direct (DC) electrical potential difference of a given
magnitude;
            a first voltage input terminal for receiving a first electrical signal externally input
thereto and a separate second voltage input terminal for receiving a second electrical signal
externally input thereto when said liquid sample is in electrical connection between the first
and second voltage input terminals;
            voltage detector(s) for measuring a first voltage and a second voltage using said
first and second electrical signals, respectively;
            a control unit arranged to control the electrical current unit to apply a said
alternating electrical current of said given frequency and concurrently to control the voltage
unit and the voltage detector(s) to measure said first and second voltages both when said
direct electrical potential difference is applied and when said direct electrical potential
difference is not applied;
            a calculating unit arranged to calculate a first electrical reactance value using the
first and second voltages measured when said direct electrical potential difference is applied,
and to calculate a second electrical reactance value measured when said direct electrical
potential difference is not applied;

                                               -16
            wherein the calculating unit is arranged to generate a value representing the
concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbAlc) in the liquid sample according to the first
electrical reactance value, the second electrical reactance value and a value representing
the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit).
[0055]     In accordance with a third embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
sampling apparatus for use in performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample
containing blood, the apparatus comprising:
            two (or more) current output terminals for outputting an alternating current signal
applied therebetween;
            an alternating electrical current unit in electrical communication with the two (or
more) current output terminals for applying therebetween an alternating electrical current of
a given amplitude and frequency, when a said liquid sample is in electrical connection
between the two (or more) current output terminals;
            a first voltage input terminal for receiving a first electrical signal externally input
thereto and a separate second voltage input terminal for receiving a second electrical signal
externally input thereto, when said liquid sample is in electrical connection between the first
and second voltage input terminals;
            voltage detector(s) for measuring a first voltage and a second voltage using said
first and second electrical signals, respectively;
            a control unit arranged to control the electrical current unit to apply a said
alternating electrical current at a first frequency and concurrently to control the voltage
detector(s) to measure said first and second voltages, and to further control the electrical
current unit to apply said alternating electrical current at a second frequency exceeding the
first frequency and concurrently to control the voltage detector(s) to measure said first and
second voltages;
            a calculating unit arranged to calculate a first electrical resistance value using the
first and second voltages measured at said first frequency, and a second electrical
resistance value and a reactance value using said first and second voltages measured at
said second frequency;
            wherein the calculating unit is arranged to generate a value representing the
relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit) according to the first and
second electrical resistance values and the electrical reactance value.

                                              -17
[0056]     In accordance with a fourth embodiment of the present invention, there is provided
a sample measurement method for performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample
containing blood, the method comprising:
           receiving the liquid sample on a sample plate comprising electrode terminals
which are separated by a spacing adapted to be bridged by blood from the liquid sample and
which comprise a reagent to react with free glucose in the liquid sample; and
           applying to the electrodes an alternating electrical current having a given
frequency to generate a first alternating potential difference across the spacing between the
electrode terminals;
           applying between the electrode terminals a substantially direct (DC) electrical
potential difference of a given magnitude;
           determining a value of a first electrical reactance of the liquid sample bridging said
spacing for said given frequency;
           removing the substantially direct (DC) electrical potential difference from between
the two electrode terminals;
           applying to the electrodes the alternating electrical current having said given
frequency to generate a second alternating potential difference across the spacing between
the electrode terminals;
           determining a value of a second electrical reactance of the liquid sample bridging
said spacing for said given frequency;
           generating a value representing the concentration of glycated haemoglobin
(HbAlc) in the blood within the sample according to the first electrical reactance value, the
second electrical reactance value and a value of the relative volume of red blood cells in the
liquid sample (haematocrit).
[0057]     In accordance with a fifth embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
sample measurement method for performing electrical measurements on a liquid sample
containing blood, the method comprising:
           receiving the liquid sample on a sample plate comprising electrode terminals
which are separated by a spacing adapted to be bridged by blood from the liquid sample;
and
           applying to the electrodes an alternating electrical current having a first signal
frequency to generate a first alternating potential difference across the spacing between the
electrode terminals;
           determining a value of a first electrical resistance of the liquid sample bridging said
spacing for said first signal frequency;

                                                 -18
            applying to the electrodes an alternating electrical current having a second signal
frequency exceeding said first signal frequency to generate a second alternating potential
difference across the spacing between the electrode terminals;
            determining a value of a second electrical resistance and a value of a reactance of
the liquid sample bridging said spacing for said second signal frequency;
            generating a value for the relative volume of red blood cells (haematocrit) in the
liquid sample according to the first electrical impedance value and the second electrical
impedance value.
[0058]     To better illustrate the invention there now follows a non-limiting examples of
embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings of which:
             Figure 1 illustrates schematically a sampling plate attached to a sampling unit;
             Figure 2 illustrates the electrode terminals of the sampling plate in more detail;
             Figure 3 illustrates the sampling plate in isolation, in the form of a disposable
sampling strip;
             Figure 4 illustrates schematically a sampling plate and sampling apparatus
according to another embodiment of the invention, comprising two sample zones and
electrode groupings;
             Figure 5 schematically illustrates equivalent circuit diagrams;
             Figure 6 schematically shows a sampling plate and sampling unit containing an
ASIC comprising circuitry components adapted to implement signal generation and reception
to and from a sampling plate;
             Figure 7 schematically shows a sampling plate and sampling unit containing an
ASIC comprising circuitry components adapted to implement signal generation and reception
to and from a sampling plate.
[0059]      In the drawings, like items are assigned like reference symbols.
[0060]      Figure 1 shows a sampling plate (1) in the form of a strip of firm and non
conductive material (e.g. plastic) possessing a circular sample zone (2) defined by a circular
recess formed within the strip for receiving a liquid blood sample. Within the sample zone
there are four electrode terminals (3, 4, 5, 6) formed upon a surface of the plate forming the
floor of the sample zone and exposed for contact with a received sample. The electrode
terminals each comprise a layer of inert conductive material, preferably Gold.
[0061]     The four electrode terminals comprise two drive electrode terminals (3, 4) each of
which is in the shape of a circular segment the curved edge of which coincides with a part of

                                              - 19
the circular edge of the circular sample zone. The straight segment edge of each one of the
two drive electrode terminals is parallel to and opposes the straight segment edge of the
other of the two drive electrode terminals to define between them a straight, elongated drive
gap of uniform width within the sample zone across which the drive electrode terminals
oppose each other and across which a drive current is driven as explained in more detail
below.
[0062]     Within the elongated drive gap extend two straight parallel sensing electrode
terminals (5, 6) in the form of two strips separated from each other by a sensing gap of
uniform width defined by the spacing between opposing side edges of each strip. The
opposing edges of the two sensing electrodes are substantially parallel to each straight
segment edge of each of the two drive electrode terminals. Furthermore, the straight
segment edge of each one of the two drive electrode terminals (3, 4) opposes a
correspondingly straight and parallel edge of an adjacent sensing electrode terminal (6, 5) to
define therebetween a substantially straight and elongated partitioning gap which extends
along the sample zone in parallel to the sensing gap. Thus, the two sensing electrodes
define a straight and uniform sensing gap of receiving parts of the blood sample within the
sensing zone, and the two drive electrode terminals define, together with neighbouring
sensing electrode terminals, two partitioning gaps either side of the sending electrodes
which are parallel to each other and to the sensing gap, and which separate the sensing
electrode terminals from the drive electrode terminals within the sensing zone.
[0063]     The width of the sensing gap is preferably between about 90 microns and about
150 microns, for example about 100 microns and is dimensioned to admit, at any point along
the sensing gap, a single human blood cell without permitting that blood cell to bridge the
gap and concurrently contact both of the two sensing electrodes defining the sensing gap.
Rather, the gap is dimensioned to allow a blood cell space to oscillate within the gap
between the opposing sensing electrodes in response to an alternating current driven
transversely across the sensing gap between the two drive electrode terminals (3, 4). In this
way, a row of blood cells may be arranged along the sensing gap when a liquid blood
sample is received within the sensing zone and may be subject to an alternating drive
current directed transversely (e.g. substantially perpendicular) to the row of cells.
[0064]     This geometry, and the linear array of single blood cells it enables in use, has
been found to provide a surprisingly accurate and stable means of measuring not only
haematocrit (HCT) values for the blood sample, but also has been found to enable accurate

                                                 - 20
measurement of the concentration of glycated haemoglobin in the blood sample (i.e. the so
called "fixed" glucose level within blood cells, or the so-called HbAlc value). Accurate
determination of the former has been found to be important for enabling accurate
determination of the latter - i.e. one needs to know how much of the sample is comprised of
red blood cells in order to be able to determine the quantity of fixed glucose they carry. The
present invention could be implemented to do both simultaneously or sequentially with
reliability and accuracy.
[0065]      The width of each of the two parallel partitioning gaps, either side of the sensing
electrode terminals is preferably about 1.5 times the value of the width of the sensing gap.
Again, this gap dimension and the parallel arrangement of blood cells the partitioning gaps
enable, has been found to assist in providing accuracy and stability.
[0066]       Each of the electrode terminals within the sensing zone is electrically connected to
a respective electrical conductor line formed within the body of the sensing plate so as to be
electrically insulated along its length until terminating at an exposed electrical contact zone
at an end or side of the sampling plate distal from the sample zone. For example, the first
drive electrode terminal (3) is electrically connected to a first drive contact zone (14) via a
first (10) electrical conductor strip (e.g. Gold). The first sensing electrode terminal (6) is
electrically connected to a first sensing contact zone (13) via a second (9) electrical
conductor strip (e.g. Gold). Similarly, the second sensor electrode terminal (5) is electrically
connected to a second sensing contact zone (12) via a third (8) electrical conductor strip
(e.g. Gold). Finally, the second drive electrode terminal (4) is electrically connected to a
second drive contact zone (11) via a fourth (7) electrical conductor strip (e.g. Gold).
[0067]      These four contact zones are arrayed in a line along an edge of the sensing plate,
at the distal end of the strip, to permit the end of the strip to be inserted into an electrical
socket/port of an electrical sensing unit (15) to place the each one of the four contact zones
simultaneously in electrical connection with a respective one of four (16, 17, 19, 20)
electrical contact terminals of the sensing unit.
[0068]      The sensing unit maybe a handset, or part of a larger piece of equipment. The
sensing unit comprises an alternating current source (18) arranged to generate an
alternating electrical current of selected amplitude and selected frequency, and apply the
alternating current to a first and second sensing contact terminals (16, 17) for application to
the drive electrode terminals (3, 4) as a drive current via the first and second drive contact
zones of the sensing plate. A control processor unit (23) is operatively connected to the

                                                 - 21
current source (18) to control the frequency of the generated current signal. For example,
the control processor may control the current signal frequency to be a value (e.g. 50 KHz)
within a first continuous range of values from about 1KHz to about 150 KHz, or to be a value
(e.g. 1 MHz) within a second continuous range of values from about 500KHz to about 1.5
MHz. The control processor is arranged to selectively switch the frequency value from a first
value within the first range to a second value within the second range.
[0069]     A detector unit (21) is electrically connected to a first and second contact terminals
(19, 20) for receiving voltage signals from the first and second sensing electrodes (6, 5) via
the first and second sensing contact zones of the sensing plate.
[0070]     The control processor (23) is arranged to control the electrical current generator to
apply an alternating electrical current at a first frequency (selected from within the first range
of values) and concurrently to control the voltage detector (21) to measure a first voltage
signal received via the first sensing electrode and to measure a second voltage signal
received via the second sensing electrode. Subsequently, the control processor further
controls the electrical current generator to apply an alternating electrical current at a second
frequency exceeding the first frequency (selected from the second frequency range) and
concurrently to control the voltage detector (21) to measure a third and a fourth voltage
signal value received from the first and second sensing electrodes respectively.
[0071]     The control processor is arranged to calculate a first electrical resistance value
(R,, Ohms) using an amplitude of the voltage difference between the first and second
voltages measured at the first frequency and the amplitude of the associated applied
alternating current, and to calculate an electrical impedance value (Z 2 = R2 + jX 3 , Ohms)
using an amplitude of the voltage difference between the third and fourth voltages measured
at the second frequency, and the amplitude of the associated applied alternating current.
Here R represents a resistive component of impedance and X represents a reactive
component of impedance. The quantity j         =   C- I.
[0072]      Using these two impedance values, the control processor is arranged to generate
a value (HCT) representing the relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample
(haematocrit) according to the following equation.
 HCT =AIn R' +Bln(X           3 +Xo)-C|
                 R2 )

                                              - 22
[0073]     This equation is discussed in more detail below (Equation (3)). The values of the
constants A, B, C and Xo may be determined for a given sensing gap and/or partitioning gap
width, and electrode structure/material for a given sensing plate, by routine calibration and
experimentation as would be readily apparent to the skilled person. It will be appreciated that
HCT values of calibrated blood samples may be obtained via other known methods to
enable such calibration. Using this method the standard error of the estimated HCT values,
when compared against the known micro-haematocrit method, is found to be less than 1.5%
when measuring HCT in the range of 20 to 60%.
[0074]     In a modified version of the embodiment of Figure 1, one drive electrode (4) of the
electrodes in the sampling zone (2) may possess a deposit of an enzyme (e.g. glucose
oxidase, glucose de-hydrogenase) to react with free glucose in the plasma component of the
blood sample to substantially oxidise it. In that case the control processor is arranged to
control the electrical current generator to apply an alternating electrical current at a first
frequency (selected from within the second range of values) with a DC voltage offset (e.g.
about 0.25 volts) applied across the drive electrodes (3, 4) and concurrently to control the
voltage detector (21) to measure a first voltage signal received via the first sensing
electrode, and to measure a second voltage signal received via the second sensing
electrode. Subsequently, the control processor further controls the electrical current
generator to apply an alternating electrical current at the same first frequency (selected from
the second frequency range) without a DC voltage offset applied across the drive electrodes
and concurrently to control the voltage detector (21) to measure a third and a fourth voltage
signal value received from the first and second sensing electrodes respectively.
[0075]     The control processor is arranged to calculate a first electrical reactance value
(XI , Ohms) using an amplitude of the voltage difference between the first and second
voltages measured at the first frequency and the amplitude of the associated applied
alternating current, and to calculate a second electrical reactance value (X 2 , Ohms) using
an amplitude of the voltage difference between the third and fourth voltages measured at the
second frequency, and the amplitude of the associated applied alternating current.
[0076]     The control processor then calculates a value (HbA1 c) representing the
concentration of glycated haemoglobin within the blood sample according to the following
equation.

                                                - 23
 HbAlc = 100x I1-H X
                    SHCT x X 2)
[0077]     Where HCT is a predetermined haematocrit value for the blood sample obtained
independently, e.g. according to the invention, or otherwise.
[0078]     This method has been found to provide an HbA1 c measurement result with an
accuracy of 10% or better within 20 seconds. The concentration of HbA1 c depends on both
the concentration of glucose in the blood and the lifespan of the erythrocyte (the
haemoglobin cell). Because erythrocytes are in circulation for approximately 120 days
HbA1 c represents the integrated glucose concentration over the preceding 8 to 10 weeks,
which is therefore free of the large fluctuations that occur daily in blood glucose
concentrations in blood plasma.
[0079]     Before measurement of a sample of blood is performed, the temperature of the
sampling plate is established. This may be done by any suitable means such as would be
available and apparent to the skilled person. Preferably, the temperature of the sampling
plate may be determined means of a thermocouple mounted in the strip port connector. To
further improve accuracy the temperature of the sample should preferably be maintained at
3700  1.50C. This may be achieved, for example, by environmental temperature control of
the area in which sampling plates are stored or used, or by means of a heater (e.g. trace
heating, Ohmic heating wire/strip etc, not shown) formed in the strip electrically connectable
to a power source within the sensing unit (15, Fig.1) to controllably heat the sampling plate.
A thermocouple (not shown) may also be formed within/upon the sampling plate, also being
arranged to be powered by the sampling unit when the sampling plate is connected thereto
in use. This may be used to regulate the heater (if present) and/or simply to allow the
sampling unit to determine the temperature of the sampling plate.
[0080]     It will be noted that both the reactive (X3 ) and resistive (R 2 ) components of the
impedance value (Z2 ) are employed in these equations when employing the higher
frequency AC signals, whereas only a resistive component (R1 ) is used at lower signal
frequencies. This stems from a consideration of the electrical current paths which may be
considered to flow across the linear arrays of blood in the sample received within the
sampling and partitioning gaps of the sample zone as follows.
[0081]     Figure 5 illustrates an equivalent circuit representing what is postulated to be the
conductive pathways for electrical current driven through a blood sample between drive

                                                  - 24
electrodes of the sampling plate. This is postulated, but not asserted, as it is useful to
understanding.
[0082]     A first current pathway (100) passes current across the line of blood cells (101)
within the sensing gap through the blood plasma (102), or other added liquid, between blood
cells. This conductive path can be considered as purely resistive in nature. A second
conductive path (103) passes through a blood cell (104). The path through the contents of
the blood cell (e.g. any glucose) may be considered as resistive, whereas the path through
the walls of the blood cell may be considered capacitive.
[0083]     These two current pathways act in parallel and present an electrical impedance (Z)
which may be approximated as follows.
 Z = R + jX = R      1+w  2
                            C  R,(RI, + R, )- jwCR,
                                                2
                   "        1+w 2 C2(R +R,)
[0084]     Where Ra is the resistance of the plasma, Rb is the resistance of the contents of
the blood cell including any glucose, and Cb is the capacitance of the blood cell, where
 j =Vl
[0085]     At sufficiently low frequencies, the reactive impedance of the blood cell, arising
from the capacitance of the blood cell, is very high and prevents current flow through the
cell. Substantially only the first current path (through plasma) is available. At sufficiently
high frequencies, the reactive impedance of the blood cell falls and the second current
pathway becomes increasingly significant. The second pathway brings the influence of the
resistance of the content of a blood cell to bear on the value of the impedance Z as well as
the remaining influence of the plasma due to the remaining first current pathway. In this
way, employing the components of impedances of a blood sample at both low and high
frequencies enables the influence of the contents of the blood cell to be probed.
[0086]     It has been found that the presence of glucose within a blood cell has a
measurable effect upon the phase of the electrical current signal passing through the
sample. It is postulated that this may be because the presence of glucose within the blood
cell increases the number of electrons available to react to the oscillating drive signal
thereby increasing the flow of current through the cell. This influences the phase of the
current passing through the sample. The presence of glucose in the cell can be considered
as influencing the resistance Rb of the cell contents, according to the equivalent circuit

                                                - 25
model. The phase of a voltage sensed in the blood sample under such circumstances could
be represented as:
 Phase = arctan     -   = arctan              "tWCbR(
                       R          1o/CRb(R + R,)
[0087]     The phase angle can be seen to be influenced by Rb, the resistance of the cell
contents. Thus, it is postulated that this may be part of the origin of the relationship between
the phase of an electrical drive signal within the sample, and the amount of glucose within
the blood cells (i.e. relating to HbAlc).
[0088]     Figure 2 illustrates a close-up view of the electrode terminals (3, 4, 5 and 6) of
figures 1,, 3 and 4. The figure indicates a suitable sensing gap width and partitioning gap
widths either side of the sensing gap. A sensing gap of 100 microns uniform in width is
suitable. Partitioning gap widths of 150 microns is also suitable. Each sensing electrode
terminal within the drive gap, between the two drive electrode terminals (3, 4) is a straight
edged flat strip of Gold having a substantially uniform width of 200 microns. This results in a
drive gap width of 800 microns. Similarly, each drive electrode terminal is a flat segment of
Gold.
[0089]     Figure 3 illustrates an embodiment of a sensing plate of Figure 1 in the form of a
disposable strip (1). The electrode and conductor structure of the disposable strip is as
described above with reference to Figure 1. In addition, the end of the strip containing the
drive and sensing electrode terminals (3, 4, 5 and 6) comprises sample zone (2) for
receiving the blood sample, surrounded by an air-porous body (27) which is in fluid
communication with the sample zone wherein the air porous body is arranged to receive air
displaced from the sample zone as the liquid blood sample is received into the sample zone.
[0090]     "In fluid communication with" may mean interfacing, where "interfacing" means
sharing a common boundary. Preferably "in fluid communication with" refers to where the air
porous body is adjacent to the sample zone. The air porous body may define a floor of the
sample zone and/or wall(s) of the sample zone. The air porous body may surround the
sample zone. Preferably the air porous body defines the sample zone, or defines an outer
boundary of the sample zone. Preferably the air porous body defines the perimeter of the
sample zone or at least part of the perimeter of the sample zone. Preferably the air porous
body is external to the sample zone itself. Preferably the sample zone is free of air porous
body.

                                              - 26
[0091]     Preferably the air porous body is arranged to receive displaced air as the liquid
sample approaches the air porous body. Preferably the air porous body is arranged to
receive air displaced in the same direction as the liquid sample travels (or spreads) into the
sample zone. Preferably the air porous body is arranged to receive a side-ways
displacement of air as the liquid sample approaches the air porous body in a side-ways
manner. Preferably the sample zone is arranged to prevent back flow of the liquid sample.
[0092]     An advantage of this arrangement is that the air porous body helps the liquid
sample to flow into the sample zone with minimal air resistance, by providing a means by
which air can be directly displaced - preferably in the same direction as the liquid sample
enters the sample zone. This permits the liquid sample to enter the sample zone at a faster
rate. In contrast, where such an air porous body is absent, air resistance retards the flow of
the liquid sample into the sample zone.
[0093]     Another advantage of the arrangement is that the air porous body helps the liquid
sample to spread uniformly throughout the sample zone, thus giving greater sampling
consistency and consequently more accurate measurements. In contrast, where the air
porous body is absent, air resistance affects the fluid dynamics of the liquid sample by
discouraging spreading (air resistance from all sides) and instead encouraging the liquid
sample to remain collectively associated as a bulk (aided by surface tension). As such the
liquid sample tends to flow as a bulk in a single direction since in this way the bulk
overcomes air resistance in that particular direction. Another advantage is that formation of
air-pockets is alleviated, which again allows for better spreading and more accurate
measurements. The liquid sample is preferably hydrophilic, more preferably aqueous-based,
and most preferably blood. In this case, blood glucose levels of a diabetic patient may be
measured. The air porous body is preferably substantially impermeable to the liquid sample.
The air porous body is preferably substantially impermeable to water. The air porous body is
preferably substantially impermeable to an aqueous liquid sample, and most preferably
substantially impermeable to blood.
[0094]     The air porous body is preferably located substantially around the perimeter of the
sample zone. Preferably a floor of the sample zone is free of air porous body. Preferably
the sample zone is free of a roof. Where the sample zone comprises a roof, the roof is
preferably free of air porous body. The air porous body preferably comprises hydrophobic
material. Preferably the air porous body comprises at least 50 wt%, more preferably at least
70 wt%, and most preferably at least 90 wt% hydrophobic material. The air porous body

                                               - 27
preferably has an average pore size between 10 and 300 microns, preferably between 50
and 200 microns, and most preferably between 100 and 150 microns. The air porous body
preferably comprises an air porous mesh, which again is preferably hydrophobic overall.
Such an air porous mesh preferably comprises polyether ether ketone (PEEK),
polypropylene (PP), polyester (PET), polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), ethylene
chlorotrifluoroethylene (ECTFE), ethylene co-tetrafluoroethylene (ETFE), nylon (polyamide),
or fluorinated ethylene-propylene (FEP). The air porous mesh preferably comprises
polyester (PET). Most preferably the air porous mesh comprises Sefar 07-120 34.
[0095]      Accordingly, where the sample zone (2) has a roof, the sample zone is accessible
via an entry port (25) into which a blood sample (26) maybe placed. By capillary action, the
blood sample is drawn through the entry port and into the sampling zone, displacing air into
the air-porous body (27) as it does so, to finally occupy the sample zone covering the drive
and sensing electrode terminals there. A breathable structure created beneath a thin
polymer film covering the sample zone, as a roof. Typically the porous layer is a mesh made
up of strands of polymer that are coated to create a hydrophobic boundary to the blood as it
flows on to the sample zone. A geometric shape cut into the mesh defines the sample zone
and entry port which allows the sample to fill the sample zone under capillary action created
by the thin top film.
[0096]      Figure 4 illustrates a further embodiment of the invention in which a sampling plate
(30) comprises two sets (31, 32) of substantially identical drive electrode and sensing
electrode arrangements each being substantially identical in structure as the electrode and
conductor structure described above with reference to figures 1 to 3. In particular, a first
electrode group (31) comprises a pair of aforesaid drive electrode terminals (3a, 4a) located
within a first sample zone (2a) of the sampling plate. A pair of aforesaid sensing electrode
terminals (5a, 6a) extend in parallel along the drive gap formed between the two drive
electrodes. A respective one of four conductive strips (7a, 8a, 9a, 1Oa) electrically connects
a drive terminal or sensing electrode terminal to a respective one of four separate contact
zones (11 a, 12a, 13a, 14a) arranged along the distal edge of the strip. A second electrode
group (32) comprises a pair of aforesaid drive electrode terminals (3b, 4b) located within a
second sample zone (2b) of the sampling plate. A pair of aforesaid sensing electrode
terminals (5b, 6b) extend in parallel along the drive gap formed between the two drive
electrodes. A respective one of four conductive strips (7b, 8b, 9b, 1Ob) electrically connects
a drive terminal or sensing electrode terminal to a respective one of four separate contact
zones (11 b, 12b, 13b, 14) arranged along the distal edge of the strip. Accordingly, eight

                                               - 28
contact zones arrayed along the distal edge of the sampling strip for insertion into a
socket/port of an electrical sensing unit (42) to place the each one of the eight contact zones
simultaneously in electrical connection with a respective one of eight electrical contact
terminals of the sensing unit.
[0097]     The first and second sample zones (2a, 2b) of the sampling plate are each in
communication with a common single sample entry port (35) via a respective one of two
sample conduits (36, 37) which bifurcate from the entry port and communicate with a given
sample zone. The two sample zones (2a, 2b) are each surrounded by an air-porous body
(27), as described above, which is in fluid communication with each of the sample zones
wherein the air porous body is arranged to receive air displaced from the sample zone as the
liquid blood sample is received into the sample zone. The air porous body defines the entry
port (35) and the sample conduits (36, 37) as well as the circular periphery of each of the
two sample zones.
[0098]     A quantity of an enzyme (38), (e.g. glucose oxidaze ("GOX") or glucose
dehydrogenase (GDH)), is located upon one of the two drive electrode terminals (4b) in the
second sample zone (2b). The enzyme (e.g. GOX or GDH) is placed to allow it to make
contact with, and react with, a blood sample entered into the second sample zone. In doing
so, the enzyme reacts with the blood sample to consume any free glucose present within the
plasma of the blood sample. As a result, one the reaction has completed, the blood sample
located within the second sample zone contains substantially no free glucose, and any
glucose present should be substantially only fixed glucose within the red blood cells of the
blood sample which is inaccessible to the enzyme (e.g. GOX or GDH).
[0099]     In the sensing unit (42), a control processor (41) is arranged to control the current
source (18) and the voltage detector unit (21) as described above with reference to Figure 1
when measuring haematocrit (HCT). The control processor (41) is arranged to control a
second current source (39) and a second voltage detector unit (40) of the sensing unit, as
described above with reference to Figure 1 ("modified version") when used to measure
HbA1c.
[0100]     Figure 6 schematically illustrates an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit,
50) arranged for connection to a microcontroller (55) integrated circuit for use within the
sensing unit (42, Fig.4). The ASIC is responsive to the control signals from a control unit
(55) to apply to the second group of electrodes (31) of the sensing strip an alternating (AC)
current having a first frequency of 1MHz and to selectively apply a direct voltage (DC) of

                                                 - 29
most preferably a substantially constant value concurrently, accordingly to the control
signals. This is for the purposes of measuring HbA1c in the blood sample bridging the
electrodes of that second group.
[0101]      The ASIC is responsive to the control signals from a control unit (55) selectively to
apply to the first group of electrodes (32) of the sensing strip an alternating (AC) current
having either a first frequency of 1MHz or second frequency of 50 KHz according to the
control signals. This is for the purposes of measuring haematocrit in the blood sample
bridging the electrodes of that second group.
[0102]      The ASIC is arranged to receive voltage signals from the first and second sensing
electrode terminals (5b, 6b) of the second group of electrodes (31) of the sensing plate, and
to receive voltage signals from the first and second sensing electrode terminals (5a, 6a) of
the first group of electrodes (32) of the sensing plate. The ASIC is responsive to the voltage
signals and the current signals to measure peak/amplitude values for those voltages and
currents for use by the microcontroller in calculating electrical resistance and reactance
values of blood samples bridging the electrodes of the first and second electrode groups (31,
32) to determine values of haematocrit and HbA1c therein.
[0103]      The control unit (55) performed the functions of the control processor unit (41) of
Figure 4.
[0104]      In particular, the microcontroller (55) is arranged to provide a direct (DC) voltage
level (most preferably a substantially constant (DC) voltage level) and to output a
corresponding (DC) analogue output signal via a digital-to-analogue converter output (56)
connected to an input port (57) of the ASIC (50). Furthermore, the microcontroller is also
arranged to produce an alternating (AC) pulse-width modulated square-wave analogue
output signal via a pulse-width modulator (PWM, 58) as a first signal (59) having a frequency
of 1MHz and to input the signal to a second input port (61) of the ASIC, and to produce a
second separate modulated square-wave output signal (60) having a frequency of 50KHz
and to input the signal to a third input port (62) of the ASIC. These two pulse-width
modulated output signals are electrical current signals which are each maintained at a
predetermined amplitude level (most preferably substantially constant) by the
microcontroller. The ASIC includes a first pre-amplifier in the form of an operational amplifier
(63) comprising a feed-back loop (64) including a resistor. The pre-amplifier is arranged to
receive the DC voltage signal from the microcontroller at a first input port (67) of the pre
amplifier, and to output an amplified value to a first output port (65) of the ASIC. The ASIC

                                               - 30
also includes a 1MHz sinewave filter unit (67) and a 50KHz sinewave filter unit (68) each
arranged for receiving and filtering a respective 1MHz and a 50KHz oscillating current signal
input from the microcontroller at the second and third input ports (61, 62) of the ASIC. Each
of the sinewave filter units is arranged to receive the respective square-wave (PWM) signal
input to it, and to alter the square-wave shape of the signal into substantially a sine-wave
shape and to output the result as an AC sine-wave signal. An analogue switch unit (69) is
provided in the ASIC and has two input ports for receiving a respective one of the two AC
sinewave signals output from the 1MHz and 50KHz sinewave filter units. The analogue
switch unit is arranged to be controlled by the microcontroller to output selectively one of the
1MHz sinewave (AC) signal and the 50KHz sinewave signal to a signal input port of a
second pre-amplifier (71) in the ASIC for amplifying that output signal. In this way the
microcontroller is able to control, via the analogue switch unit, which of the 1MHz and the
50KHz sinewave (AC) signals is ultimately output from the second pre-amplifier and from the
ASIC.
[0105]      The sampling strip (30) is shown as electrically connected to the ASIC of the
sensing unit such that a first drive electrode terminal (4b) of a second group of electrodes
(31) for sensing HbA1c, is electrically connected to the first output port of the ASIC, and
such that a first drive electrode terminal (4a) of a first group of electrodes (32) for sensing
haematocrit, is electrically connected to the second output port of the ASIC.
[0106]      In addition, the analogue switch unit is arranged to be controlled by the
microcontroller to output the 1MHz sinewave (AC) signal to a second signal input port (66) of
the first pre-amplifier (63) in the ASIC for amplifying that output signal. The first pre-amplifier
unit is arranged to selectively amplify a 1MHz sinewave (AC) signal either with or without the
concurrent presence of the DC voltage level applied to the first input port (67) of that
amplifier. The microcontroller controls when/if the DC voltage level is applied to the first pre
amplifier unit.
[0107]      The analogue switch unit is further arranged to output, via a third output port (73),
a signal which is representative of the time of a peak/amplitude of the AC sinewave signal
received by the analogue switch unit from either of the first and second sinewave filter units.
This signal is input to a phase-to-voltage unit (74) which, as shall be explained in more detail
below, is arranged to measure a temporal phase difference between an AC current applied
to the drive electrodes of the first and second groups of electrodes, and an AC voltage
generated between sensing electrode terminals of the respective groups of electrodes of the

                                                - 31
sensing plate, and to generate the result as a signal representative of that temporal phase
difference.
[0108]      The ASIC includes a peak detector unit (77) in communication with the phase-to
voltage unit and comprising a first and second signal input ports (82, 83) in communication
with first and second voltage input ports (75, 76), respectively, of the ASIC for receiving
voltage signals from the sensing electrode terminals (5a, 6a) of the first group of electrodes
(32) of the sensing plate. A third input port (84) of the peak detector unit is arranged in
communication with a second drive electrode (3a) of the first group of drive electrodes (32)
via a first current input port (78) of the ASIC and is arranged to receive the current driven
through the first group of electrodes between the first drive electrode (4a) and the second
drive electrode (3a) of that group.
[0109]      The peak detector unit also comprises a fourth and fifth signal input ports (85, 86)
in communication with third and fourth voltage input ports (79, 80), respectively, of the ASIC
for receiving signals from the sensing electrode terminals (5b, 6b) of the first group of
electrodes (31) of the sensing plate. A sixth input port (87) of the peak detector unit is
arranged in communication with a second drive electrode (3b) of the first group of drive
electrodes (31) via a second current input port (81) of the ASIC and is arranged to receive
the current driven through the second group of electrodes between the first drive electrode
(4b) and the second drive electrode (3b) of that group.
[0110]      Thus, the ASIC includes a first (75) and second (76) voltage input ports which
connect electrically to a first (82) and second (83) input ports of a peak detector unit and are
adapted for receiving a respective first and second voltages from respective of the sensing
electrodes of the first group of electrodes (32). The ASIC also includes a third and fourth
voltage input ports (79, 80) which are similarly electrically connected to input ports (85, 86)
of the peak detector unit. A first current input port (78) and a second current input port (81)
are each respectively connected to first and second current input ports (84, 87) of the peak
detector unit. Each of the first to sixth input ports of the peak detector unit are arranged to
receive respective voltage and current signals which are amplified by a respective pair of
amplifier units (92) within the apparatus, arranged in series electrical connection along the
respective signal transmission line leading to the input ports in question. These amplifier
units serve to amplify the respective signals prior to receipt by the peak detector unit, and
may be formed in the ASIC if desired, or elsewhere in the sensing unit but operably
connected to the ASIC as shown in the Figures.

                                               - 32
[0111]     The peak detector unit comprises an output port electrically connected to a
sample-and-hold unit (90) which is arranged to receive from the peak detector unit a signal
representing a value of the peak in an AC voltage signal received by the peak detector,
and/or a value representing a peak current value received by the peak detector. These peak
values generally represent amplitude values of an associated AC current and voltage signal
inputs to the peak detector unit from the electrodes of the sampling plate (bio-sensor
module). The sample-and-hold unit is operable to momentarily retain signal values received
from the peak detector unit as and when required for subsequent transmission to the
microcontroller.
[0112]     The phase-to-voltage unit (74) possesses an output port electrically connected to
an output port of the ASIC for outputting a voltage signal representing a measured phase
difference (measured time shift) between the peak voltage values detected by the peak
detector, and the peak values of the AC current signal output by the analogue switching unit.
[0113]     A stop-watch unit (89) is operably connected to and controlled by the
microcontroller (55) via the control register unit (91) and the interface (SPI) with the
microcontroller. The stop-watch unit is arranged to measure a time interval between
detected signal peaks detected by the peak detector unit for use in measuring a phase angle
between applied current and measured voltage.
[0114]     In this way, the phase-to-voltage unit and the peak detector unit provide values
representing an amplitude of an AC voltage signal and an AC current signal received by the
peak detector unit, and a phase difference incurred between those signals. With these
measured values, the microcontroller is arranged to calculate values of resistance and
reactance of samples within the sampling zones of the sampling plate (bio-sensor module).
[0115]     The sample and hold unit (90) has two output ports each in communication with a
respective first and second output port (94, 95) of the ASIC for separately outputting values
associated with the first and second groups of electrodes (31, 32) respectively.
[0116]     The voltage output port of the ASIC is arranged to be connectable (and is shown
as connected to) a biosensor module in the form of a sampling strip such as is shown in
Figure 4. The first current output port (65) of the ASIC is connected to a drive electrode (4b)
in the sampling zone of the sampling strip dedicated to measuring HbA1 c and the second
current input port (81) is arranged to be electrically connected to (and is shown as
connected) to the other drive electrode (3b) in that sampling zone. Similarly, the second

                                                - 33
current output port (72) of the ASIC is electrically connectable to (and shown as connected)
a first drive electrode (4a) in the other sampling zone of the sampling strip dedicated to
measuring haematrocrit, whereas the other drive electrode (3a) in that sampling zone is
electrically connectable to (as is shown as connected) the first current input port (78) of the
ASIC.
[0117]      The two sensing electrodes (5a, 6a) of the sampling strip within the sampling zone
for haematrocit are each separately connected to the first and second voltage input ports
(75, 76), respectively, of the ASIC via a respective pair of amplifier units (92). Similarly, the
two sensing electrodes (5b, 6b) in the sampling zone of the sampling strip dedicated to
measurement of HbA1c are each separately connected to a respective one of the third and
fourth voltage input ports (79, 80) of the ASIC. In this way, electrical currents may be driven
across the drive electrodes in the two sampling zones via the ASIC, and resulting voltages,
and voltage/current phase differences arising from liquid samples within those sensing
zones, may be determined.
[0118]      In particular, when an AC current signal is driven across a pair of drive electrode
terminals of the first or second group of electrode terminals, a blood sample bridging the
drive gap between those electrode terminals responds in such a way as to present an
electrical impedance (Z, ohms). This manifests itself in that an AC electrical potential
difference is generated across the sample, as measured by/between the two sensing
electrode terminals in the given group of terminals, which is not in temporal phase with the
AC current signal. The sample possesses not only a resistance (R, ohms) which is
dissipative (real), but also a reactance (X, ohms) which is non-dissipative (imaginary).
[0119]      Thus, if the driving AC current of amplitude |Il and angular frequency w is
represented by:
 I = Ilexp{j(ot +0)}
            where     j =  VII, and   01 is the temporal phase of the sine wave AC current
signal, then the resulting voltage across the two sensing electrodes of the given group of
electrodes is represented by:
 V = Vlexp{j(ot+O)}

                                            - 34
           where 0y is the temporal phase of the sine wave AC voltage signal of amplitude
 V and angular frequency w.
[0120]    The impedance of the sample is given by:
Z= Z exp{j#3}
           where |Z is the magnitude of the impedance and # is its phase angle.
[0121]    The resistance of the blood sample (R) is given by:
R = Z cos(#)
[0122]    And the reactance of the blood sample (X) is given by
X = Z sin(q#)
           where |Z is measurable using the known amplitudes I and IV of the applied
current and resulting voltage signals respectively. Similarly, the phase angle of the
impedance can be determined by applying Ohm's law:
V= Vlexp{j(wt+0)}=        Ix Z= I x Z exp{j(t+0, +#)}
           thus
#  = 0 -0, =wx At
           where At is the time lag between a peak in the applied AC sinewave current
signal and a measured peak in the resulting AC voltage across the blood sample.
[0123]    Thus, the resistance (R) and reactance (X) values of the blood sample may be
determined from the AC current peak/amplitude value (I)    as applied at a frequency w
between the two drive electrode terminals in a sampling zone, the resulting AC voltage
peak/amplitude ( V ) as measured between the sensing electrodes in that sampling zone,
and the time lag (At) between those two peaks in succession, as follows:

                                                 - 35
 R= -cos(cox       At)                                                          Equation (1)
       I
       V
 X= -sin(co     x At)                                                           Equation (2)
       I
[0124]      These values are either known by, or measured by, the sampling unit using the
ASIC as described above, and the microcontroller (55) is arranged to calculate these
resistance and reactance values.
[0125]      A control register unit (91) is provided on the ASIC and is arranged to control,
under overall control of the microprocessor via an interface unit (SPI), the timings and
orchestration of control signals for operation of the amplifiers (/en signals to "enable"
amplifiers), filters, switches and other components on the ASIC. The control register may be
of a type such as would be readily apparent to the skilled person.
[0126]      A thermo-couple (88) is formed in the ASIC and is electrically connected between
a signal port of the control register unit (91) and an earth terminal and is arranged in the
sampling device to make physical contact with a part of the sampling plate when the
sampling plate is operatively connected to the sampling device in use. The control register
unit is arranged to receive signals from the thermo-couple representative of the temperature
of the sampling plate (30) and to convey those signals to the microcontroller to permit the
temperature of the sampling plate to be determined by the microcontroller.
[0127]      In use, the sampling unit is operable as follows. Once a user has applied a blood
sample to the first and second sampling zones (Fig. 4; 2a, 2b) of the sampling plate (30), the
blood sample is split between the first sampling zone (2a) dedicated to measuring
haematocrit, and the second sampling zone (2b) dedicated to measuring HbA1c. The
GOx/GDH spot (38) provided in the second sampling zone reacts with the free glucose
present in the blood plasma of the blood sample within that zone to substantially oxidise it. A
suitable period of time is allowed for this process (several seconds, e.g. between 0.5 and 15
seconds). This has been found to be as little as 0.5 seconds. It may be slowed by using a
mediator which would allow the signal transient to be recorded over a time frame sufficient to
determine the level of free glucose in the sample. For the determination of HbA1c, it is only
required that the free glucose is oxidised, therefore it is important at least to see that a
transient has occurred and decayed before the HbA1c measurement sequence is started.

                                                 - 36
Subsequently, the blood-bearing sampling strip is electrically connected to the sampling unit
(if not already so connected) as shown in Figure 4 and Figure 6.
[0128]      The microcontroller shown in Figure 6 is arranged to supply to the first pre
amplifier (63) of the ASIC (50) an alternating (AC) electrical current having a 1MHz
frequency, via the 1MHz sinewave filter unit (67), to drive that current through the blood
sample bridging the two drive electrodes within the second sampling zone, thereby to
generate a first alternating potential difference across the spacing between the drive
electrode terminals measurable via the two sensing electrode terminals (5b, 6b) within that
sampling zone. This state is maintained for a period of time of several milliseconds in
duration (e.g. between about 20 ms and about 200 ms or less). Subsequently, the
microcontroller is arranged to apply a substantially constant direct (DC) voltage to the first
pre-amplifier unit (63) of the ASIC to output to the first output port of the ASIC (65) a
substantially constant DC offset of about 0.25 volts in combination with the 1MHz AC current
signal concurrently being applied to the second sampling zone. The microcontroller is
arranged to then employ the peak detector unit and the phase-to-voltage unit of the ASIC to
measure the amplitude of the voltage across the two sensing electrode terminals (5b, 6b) in
the first sampling zone, and the time lag between the successive occurrences of a peak in
the applied AC current and the resulting AC voltage, and to measure a first value of the
electrical reactance (Xi) of the blood sample according to Equation (2) above.
[0129]      The microcontroller is arranged to subsequently not apply the DC voltage offset
and to continue to apply the 1MHz AC current signal to the first and second drive electrode
terminals of the second sampling zone. After a suitable time period following removal of the
DC offset voltage (e.g. between about 20 ms and about 200 ms or less), the microcontroller
is arranged to then employ the peak detector unit and the phase-to-voltage unit of the ASIC
to measure the amplitude of the voltage across the two sensing electrode terminals (5b, 6b)
in the first sampling zone, and the time lag between the successive occurrences of a peak in
the applied AC current and the resulting AC voltage, and to measure a second value of the
electrical reactance (X2 ) of the blood sample according to Equation (2) above.
[0130]       Either before, during or after performing the above process on the blood sample
within the second sampling zone, the microcontroller is arranged to determine the
haematocrit (HCT) within the blood sample as follows.
[0131]      The microcontroller is arranged to supply a 50 KHz AC current to the analogue
switch unit (69) of the ASIC via the 50KHz sinewave filter unit (68) and to control the switch

                                               - 37
unit to connect the 50KHz AC current to the second output port (72) of the ASIC via the
second pre-amplifier unit (71). This causes the AC signal to be applied to the drive electrode
terminals (3a, 4a) of the first sample zone, an alternating electrical current having a first
signal frequency of 50 KHz to generate a first alternating potential difference of 50 KHz
across the spacing between the electrode terminals, as measured by the two sensing
electrodes (5b, 6b) in the first sample zone.
[0132]      The microcontroller is arranged to then employ the peak detector unit and the
phase-to-voltage unit of the ASIC to measure the amplitude of the voltage across the two
sensing electrode terminals (5a, 6a) in the first sample zone, and the time lag between the
successive occurrences of a peak in the applied AC current and the resulting AC voltage,
and to measure a first value of the electrical resistance (R1 ) of the blood sample according to
Equation (1) above.
[0133]      The microcontroller is arranged to then supply a 1MHz AC current to the analogue
switch unit (69) of the ASIC via the 1 MHz sinewave filter unit (67) and to control the switch
unit to connect the 1MHz AC current to the second output port (72) of the ASIC via the
second pre-amplifier unit (71). This causes the 1 MHz AC signal to be applied to the drive
electrode terminals (3a, 4a) of the first sample zone, an alternating electrical current having
a second signal frequency of 1 MHz to generate a second alternating potential difference of
1 MHz across the spacing between the electrode terminals, as measured by the two sensing
electrodes (5a, 6a) in the first sample zone.
[0134]      The microcontroller is arranged to then employ the peak detector unit and the
phase-to-voltage unit of the ASIC to measure the amplitude of the voltage across the two
sensing electrode terminals (5a, 6a) in the first sample zone, and the time lag between the
successive occurrences of a peak in the applied AC current and the resulting AC voltage,
and to measure a second value of the electrical resistance (R2 ) of the blood sample
according to Equation (1) above, and to measure a third value of the electrical reactance
(X3 ) of the blood sample in the first sample zone according to Equation (2) above.
[0135]      The microcontroller is arranged to subsequently calculate a value for the relative
volume of red blood cells (haematocrit, HCT) in the liquid sample according to the first
electrical resistance value, the second electrical resistance value and the third electrical
reactance value according to the following formula, and store the result and/or to output the
result to the user:

                                                 - 38
 HCT       AIn R +Bln(           + XO)-C|                                      Equation (3)
             _ R2)
[0136]      Where A, B and C are constants associated with the sampling plate in question.
For example, the values of A, B and C may each typically be within the range from about
0.05 to about 0.5, or preferably between about 0.1 and 0.25, or more preferably between
about 0.1 and about 0.2. For example, when using electrodes formed from gold having a
sheet resistance of 5 ohms per square, and the geometry illustrated in Figure 4, the values
in question may be:
A = 0.142;
B = 0.155;
C = 0.157.
[0137]      Actual values, suited to a given sampling zone geometry and electrode structure
and material, may be determined by routine calibration employing commercially available
blood samples of known HCT, as will be apparent to the skilled person. The value of Xo may
simply be zero, or may be adjusted if necessary to improve the predictive accuracy of the
equation. It has been found that the term A is correlated with the conductivity of the
electrode terminals of the sensing strip. The term B has been found to correlate with the
resistivity of the interface (e.g. the wetting) between the blood sample and the electrode
terminals in the sample zone. This is influenced by the electrode material (e.g. Gold), and
the quality of the structure (e.g. roughness) of the electrode surfaces. The term C has been
found to correlate with the variability of the average blood cell size (e.g. determined for
"unfixed" or un-glycated blood cells) within the sample. This can be strongly influenced by
ethnicity, blood type and interferences such as those which will be readily apparent to the
skilled person. Values of C associated with different ethnicities (or blood type or known
interferences) may be stored in a look-up table within (or accessible by) the control
processor for suitable selection during calibration.
[0138]      Table 1 shows examples of values of haematocrit for a blood sample of type A
calculated according to the above method and equations. Three groups of ten
measurements were made using the strip design illustrated in Figures 1, 3, 4 and 6 for
measuring HCT. In each of the three groups a sample of blood was used having a known
HCT value, namely 52%, 42% and 31%. Measurements of resistances Ri, and R2 and
reactance X3 were made at 50 KHz and 1 MHz AC signal frequency respectively, and input

                                               - 39
into Equation (3) to generate a measurement value of HCT in each of the measurements.
The ten measurements for each one of the three different common (known) HCT value
shows a consistently accurate HCT measurement.
[0139]      The microcontroller is arranged to then generate a value representing the
concentration of glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) in the blood within the sample according to
the first electrical reactance value, the second electrical reactance value and a value of the
relative volume of red blood cells in the liquid sample (haematocrit, HCT) according to the
following formula, and store the result and/or to output the result to the user:
 HbAlc = 1OOx 1-                                                                Equation (4)
                   SHCT x    X2
[0140]      The quantity X, represents the reactance of a blood sample due to glycated red
blood cells in the blood within the second sampling zone from which free glucose has been
substantially oxidized by GOx/GDH, whereas X2 represents the reactance of the whole blood
sample in which both plasma and red blood cells contain glucose. The proportion of that
reactance due to red blood cells is determined by the (HCT)x(X 2) according to the
haematocrit of the sample in the first sampling zone.
[0141]      Figure 7 shows an alternative form of sampling strip and sampling unit to read the
sampling strip for the purposes of measuring haematocrit alone.
[0142]      This alternative sampling strip (30A) comprises a first sampling zone containing a
first group of electrodes identical to the electrode group illustrated in Figures 1 to 3, and in
the first sampling zone (2a) of the sampling strip of Figure 4 and Figure 6. The first group of
electrodes comprises a pair of drive electrode terminals (3a, 4a) defining a drive gap within
which are arranged two sensing electrode terminals (5a, 6a) for sensing a voltage drop
across a blood sample when bridging the drive gap resulting from the an AC current driven
between the two drive electrode terminals. The first group of electrodes, and the circuit
elements of the ASIC (50A) with which they are arranged to electrically connect (shown as
connected in Fig. 7) are the same as those elements of the ASIC (50) illustrated above in
Figure 6. Those circuit elements are arranged to operate, and be controlled by the
microcontroller (55A) substantially as described above with reference to the first sample
zone of the sample strip of Figure 6 for determining a measure of haematocrit using equation
(3) above.

                                                  - 40
[0143]     However, the second sampling zone of this alternative sampling strip comprises a
single pair of drive electrodes terminals (100, 101) defining between them a curved drive gap
(102). The drive electrode pair is arranged to connect electrically to the ASIC to apply a DC
electrical voltage (preferably substantially constant in value) across the curved drive gap
when/if bridged by a blood sample within the second sensing zone. A deposit of a reagent,
such as an enzyme or the like, to react with glucose in the blood sample (e.g. glucose
oxidase (GOX) or glucose dehydrogenase (GDH)) is provided on the surface of the anode
(e.g. electrode terminal 101) of the two drive electrodes. Like items are assigned like
reference symbols as between figures 6 and 7.
[0144]     The ASIC (50A) in this alternative design differs from the ASIC of Figure 6 in that
the analogue switch unit (69A) does not provide a 1 MHz AC current input (66, Fig.6) to the
first pre-amplifier unit (63). The first pre-amplifier unit (63A) does not possess a feed-back
loop (64, Fig.6) and simply receives from the microcontroller a DC voltage signal (most
preferably substantially constant), which it amplifies and outputs the result to a first voltage
output port (65A) of the ASIC for electrical connection to a drive electrode (100) of the
second sample zone.
[0145]     The DC voltage signal is output by the microcontroller (55A) via a digital-to
analogue converter (56) and input to an amplifier (63A) formed within the ASIC the amplified
output of which is input to a voltage output port (65A) of the ASIC and to a first input port
(104) of an operational amplifier unit (103) formed in the ASIC. The operational amplifier
has a second input port (105) which serves as voltage input terminal of the sensing unit
respectively connected to an anode terminal (101) of the second pair of drive electrodes of
the sample plate when the latter is connected to the former in use as shown in Figure 7.
[0146]     The operational amplifier has a respective output port (107) which is connected to
its second input port via a feed-back loop comprising a resistor (106). As a result, the DC
drive voltage  (Vdrive) applied to the first input port of the operational amplifier by the first
amplifier unit (63A) is expressed as a correspondingly substantially constant voltage level at
the second input port (105) of the operational amplifier. This produces a controllably
constant potential difference across the drive electrodes of the electrode pair (100, 101) in
the second sample zone relative to a reference voltage (Vref). Consequential conduction
through a blood sample in the second sample zone of the sampling strip enters the
operational amplifier electrically connected to that blood sample. The result is that a
measurable current is received by the operational amplifier at its second input port (105).

                                                   - 41
This current is output on the output port (107) of the operational amplifier via a voltage
amplifier (109) to a 12-bit analogue to digital converter (97B) of the microcontroller for use
thereby in determining a value for the blood glucose level within the sample in the second
sample zone, as described below. The measured current is also input from the operational
amplifier to an input port of the peak detector unit (77) which is arranged to detect the
occurrence of a peak in the detected current from the second sample zone, and to
communicate the time of that occurrence to the microcontroller (55A) via a 12-bit analogue
to digital converter (97B) of the microcontroller for use thereby in determining a value for the
blood glucose level within the sample in the second sample zone, as described below.
[0147]       It has been found that a direct (DC) voltage held between the two drive electrodes
of the second sample zone, and thereby applied across the blood sample located there
during the enzyme (GOX/GDH) reaction period, will cause a time-varying current to pass
through the blood sample. Variation is believed to result, in part, from the changing (falling)
quantity of free glucose within the plasma of the sample resulting in a changing electrical
resistance of the plasma component of the blood. Most preferably, the DC voltage is
substantially constant for simplicity, however non-constant DC voltages (e.g. smoothly falling
or rising in a controlled way) could be employed if desired, though this is likely to complicate
design and operation of the apparatus and so a substantially constant DC voltage is
preferred.
[0148]       Starting with an initial rise (near instantaneous) in current to a peak value at a time
"tpeak", the observed quantity of current falls monotonically as glucose is increasingly oxidised
in the blood plasma. Sample temperature affects the rate of decay of the current - lower
temperatures result in faster decay. It has been found that the rate of fall of the observed
current, following the peak current value, is characteristic of the amount of glucose originally
present in the plasma of the blood sample before the oxidisation process began. The
observed current decay is highly reproducible when the process is repeated. Thus, by
performing this process initially with a sufficient plurality a blood samples each having an
incrementally different, known quantity of glucose in its plasma component, one may build
up a plurality of reference curves of the type described above (or data sets representative of
them) from which a future blood plasma glucose measurement may be made by reference.
That is to say, with the plurality of reference curves (or representative data) one may perform
a contemporaneous blood sampling operation as described above so as to generate a
measurable current varying generally according to the current decay curve described above.
By measuring a particular current value at a selected time during that current decay (i.e. a

                                               - 42
point along the contemporaneous current decay curve) one may subsequently identify a
blood plasma glucose level associated with that current value as derived from a reference
curve. The contemporaneously measured blood plasma glucose level may then be
concluded to have the same glucose level. A Look-Up Table (LUT) or other storage may be
used for this purpose. The process may include measuring a contemporaneous value "In"of
the decaying current at a specified time "tmn"  following the time "tpeak" at which the detected
peak of the measured current occurs - the specified time having also been used when
generating the reference curves. This current value then identifies the glucose value stored
in the LUT associated with the reference curve which had the same current value at the
same specified time in its current decay phase. The stored value from the LUT which
matches a contemporaneous value will identify the associated blood plasma glucose level so
measured. The specified time (tm) may be between about 1 sec. and about 15 sec.
Different reference curves or LUTs may be used according to the measured temperature of
the sensing strip, as determined by the thermocouple described herein for example.
[0149]     In this way, the microcontroller is arranged to apply a DC voltage to the pair of
drive electrodes (100, 101) in the second sample zone, and to measure the resulting current.
[0150]     The sampling unit contains such a LUT as described above, and is arranged to
compare respective contemporaneously measured current (decaying) values separately
from the second sample zone, with stored reference current values, to identify the closest
match (or interpolate between the closest two matches) and to retrieve an associated blood
plasma glucose value "BGraw" from the LUT associated with that match. There may
comprise as plurality of LUTs which may be respectively associated with reference curves
generated for a common specified temperature of blood sample. The calculating unit may
be arranged to select the appropriate LUT based on the measured temperature of the
sampling strip at the time of the measurement at hand. A thermo-couple (not shown) may be
provided in the sampling unit to physically contact the sampling plate (30A) in use and
provide signals to which the microcontroller is responsive to determine a temperature of the
sampling plate and, from that determination, select the most appropriate LUT for use as
described above. Alternatively, through testing various temperatures, a temperature
correction factor (Tc) maybe determined and used to compensate the measurement for
temperature effects. One LUT for Im and tm may then be used and the value retrieved from
the LUT using Imand tm may then be adjusted using the temperature correction factor (Tc) as
appropriate.

                                              - 43
[0151]     The microcontroller is arranged to produce an adjusted value "BGcorrected" for the
blood plasma glucose level so retrieved according to:
 BGcorrec,  = f (BGra,  HCT)                                                  Equation (5)
            where f(BG,,,,HCT)      is a predetermined corrective    function of the measured
haematocrit value HCT for the sample in the first sample zone, and of BGr,, which is an
uncorrected blood plasma glucose value measured for the blood sample in the second
sample zone.       The form of the function f(BG,,,HCT)of        the predetermined corrective
function may be selected by the user.
[0152]      One example is of the form:
 f(BGa,, HCT)= BGa,,-- [mx (HCT) + c]
            where m is a positive or negative constant and c is a positive or negative constant.
These values may be evaluated by calibration against commercially available calibration
blood samples containing known HCT and glucose levels. This functional form exploits the
finding that errors in uncorrected glucose measurements are typically linear to a first
approximation, as a function of HCT, and that so too is the corrective function. Of course,
other more accurate corrective functional forms may be used such as would be apparent to
the skilled person in this field.
[0153]     The ASIC controller unit (91) controls the timing and coordination of the
components formed upon the ASIC under the master control of the microcontroller via an
interface (SPI) of the microcontroller with which the ASIC control unit is in communication.
In this way, the required current and voltage values may be applied to, and received from,
the first sample zone containing the first group of electrodes (3a, 4a, 5a, 6a) of the sampling
plate (30A) via the ASIC to enable the microcontroller to perform the measurements of HCT
and blood glucose as described above using equation (3).
[0154]     This value of HCT is employed by the microcontroller to calculate an adjusted
value of blood glucose in the sample of blood using the blood glucose value determined from
the second sampling zone containing the second group of electrodes (100, 101).

                                                -  44
[0155]      Examples of the HCT value determined by the microcontroller using the ASIC and
the first group of electrodes (3a, 4a, 5a, 6a) in the first sampling zone, as described above
with relation to Figures 1, 3 and 6, and employed in Equation (3), are given in Table 1.
[0156]      Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0157]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0158]      The embodiments of the invention described above are intended to be illustrative
of preferred implementations of the invention and variants, modifications and alterations to
those implementations, such as would be readily apparent to the skilled person, are
encompassed within the scope of the invention as defined e.g. by the claims.
                                               Table 1
           STRIP         R1          R2           X3     MEASURED HCT          ACTUAL
            NO.                                                                  HCT
              1        318.2       232.3          58         51.7049034           52
              2        320.1       234.7          59         51.9084503
              3        318.7       232.9          58         51.6905695
              4        320.2        233           58          51.751151
              5        318.2       232.1          58         51.7171343
              6        318.3       232.2          58         51.7154794
              7        318.4       232.2          58         51.7199399
              8        317.5       230.5          57         51.5145174
              9        319.2       232.6          58         51.7311329
             10       320.05       232.8          58         51.7566914
            Strip        R1          R2           X3       Measured HCT         Actual
             No.                                                                 HCT
              1         240        190.3          35         42.7028225           42
              2        240.3       190.5          35         42.7056454

                  -45
  3   240.7 190.4  35   42.7367189
  4    241  190.8 35.5  42.9444675
  5   240.7 190.5  35   42.7292629
  6   240.9 190.9 35.5  42.9311337
  7   240.7 190.8  35   42.7069183
  8    241   191   36   43.1463773
  9   241.3 191.2  35   42.7125328
 10    240  190.2  35   42.7102863
Strip   R1    R2   X3  Measured HCT Actual
 No.                                 HCT
  1   195.3 165.8  18   31.4260775    31
  2   193.1 163.8  18   31.4375429
  3   194.7 165.2  18   31.4338656
  4   194.3 165.3  18   31.3960694
  5   193.1 163.7  18   31.4462147
  6   193.1 163.8  18   31.4375429
  7   193.1 163.7  18   31.4462147
  8   192.5 163.6  18   31.4107008
  9   192.7 163.6  18   31.4254464
 10   192.8 163.5  18   31.4414958

                                               - 46
CLAIMS:
1.      A sampling plate comprising:
        a sample zone for receiving a liquid sample;
        two drive electrodes with separate respective electrode terminals spaced by a
spacing for receiving a said liquid sample within the sample zone for use in driving an
electrical signal through the sample;
        two sensing electrodes with separate respective electrode terminals spaced between
the electrode terminals of the two drive electrodes for use in sensing an electrical signal
generated by the drive electrodes within a said sample.
2.      A sampling plate according to claim 1 in which the two sensing electrode terminals
present to each other opposing sides which define between them an elongated sensing gap
extending along the sample zone for receiving said sample therein.
3.      A sampling plate according to claim 1 in which the two drive electrode terminals
present to each other opposing sides which define between them an elongated drive gap
extending along the sample zone for receiving said sample therein whereby the drive
electrodes are adapted to drive electrical signals transversely across the drive gap.
4.      A sampling plate according to claim 2 in which the two drive electrode terminals
present to each other opposing sides which define between them an elongated drive gap
extending along the sample zone for receiving said sample therein whereby the drive
electrodes are adapted to drive electrical signals transversely across the drive gap.
5.      A sampling plate according to claim 4 in which the sensing gap extends along the
drive gap.
6.      A sampling plate according to any one of claims 2 to 5 in which the sensing gap
and/or the drive gap has a substantially uniform width along at least a part of its length.
7.      A sensor according to any one of claims 1 to 6 in which a said drive electrode
terminal and an adjacent sensing electrode terminal present to each other opposing sides
which define between them an elongated partitioning gap extending along the sample zone
to define a partition between the adjacent terminals within the sample zone.
8.      A sampling plate according to claim 7 in which the partitioning gap has a substantially
uniform width along at least a part of its length.

                                              - 47
9.      A sampling plate according to any one of the preceding clams in which the sensing
electrode terminals are formed on a surface of the sensing plate within the sample zone.
10.     A sampling plate according to claim 9 in which the drive electrode terminals are
formed on a surface of the sensing plate in common with the sensing electrode terminals
within the sensing zone.
11.     A sampling plate according to any one of the preceding claims in which each of the
drive electrodes and each of the sensing electrodes is in electrical communication with
respective electrical contact zones provided on the sampling plate which are exposed for
electrical connection simultaneously with an external drive current source and external
sensing circuitry, respectively.
12.     A sampling plate according to any of claims 2 or 4 or 6 in which the width of the
sensing gap is greater than about 90 microns and less than about 160 microns.
13.     A sampling plate according to claim 7 or claim 8 in which the width of the partitioning
gap is about 1.5 times the width of the sensing gap.
14.     A sampling plate according to any one of the preceding claims in which the sample
zone comprises a reagent to react with free glucose in the liquid sample.
15.     A sampling plate according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a plurality
of said sample zones for receiving a said liquid sample, each with two drive electrodes with
separate respective electrode terminals spaced by a spacing for receiving a said liquid
sample within each respective sample zone for use in driving an electrical signal through the
sample, and each with two sensing electrodes with separate respective electrode terminals
spaced between the electrode terminals of the two drive electrodes for use in sensing an
electrical signal generated by the drive electrodes within a said sample.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
