                                              ABSTRACT
          Compounds formed by combining a carboxylic acid herbicide with N-((C 1 - C16 ) alkyl or
  arylalkyl) tri((CI-C 16 ) alkyl)ammonium hydroxide have herbicidal activity on an acid equivalent
  basis at least as active as the commercially used carboxylic acid herbicide salts, but are less
5 volatile.

             COMPOUNDS DERIVED FROM HERBICIDAL CARBOXYLIC ACIDS
                                 AND TETRAALKYLAMMONIUM OR
                      (ARYLALKYL)TRIALKYLAMMONIUM HYDROXIDES
 5
            This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application no.
   <removed-apn>, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
           Acid herbicides such as 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) have long been used to
   control unwanted vegetation. 2,4-D is normally converted into liquid formulations by conversion
 0 to water soluble salts or emulsified esters. The ester formulations have been found to be more
   effective than the salts on an acid equivalent basis in the control of noxious vegetation but have
   the unwanted characteristic of migrating to adjacent desirable vegetation because of the volatility
   thereof, resulting in unacceptable damage to sensitive plants.
            Efforts to solve the volatility problem, including preparation of water soluble salts such
 5 as the dimethylamine salt of 2,4-D, have not been totally satisfactory because, upon
   volatilization of the amine, the herbicide reverts back to its initial acid form, which, in itself
   under certain unfavorable conditions, has sufficient volatility to cause damage to sensitive crops.
            2,4-D ester or 2,4-D dimethylamine formulations applied during the warm summer
   months can lead to vapor drift from the evaporation of the herbicide from sprayed surfaces and
20 subsequent damage to highly susceptible crops such as tomatoes, cotton, soybeans, sunflowers
   and grapes. This may occur within hours after the herbicide application.
                                                       1

             Thus it would be desirable to have an herbicidal carboxylic acid
   derivative that is at least as active as the commercially used carboxylic acid
   herbicide salts, but which is less volatile so that its use would not damage nearby
   sensitive crops.
 5         It has now been found that compounds formed by combining a carboxylic
   acid herbicide with either a tetraalkylammonium or an
   (arylalkyl)trialkylammonium hydroxide have herbicidal activity on an acid
   equivalent basis at least comparable to the commercially used carboxylic acid
   herbicide salts, but with reduced volatility. Furthermore, the compounds can be
10 more conveniently formulated as aqueous concentrates or emulsified liquids. The
   present invention concerns herbicidal compounds comprising the reaction product
   of an herbicidal carboxylic acid and an N-((CI-C     16 ) alkyl or arylalkyl) tri((CI-C1 6 )
   alkyl)ammonium hydroxide, where the alkyl groups can be the same or different.
   The invention includes herbicidal compositions comprising an herbicidally
15 effective amount of such compounds in admixture with an agriculturally
   acceptable adjuvant or carrier. The invention also includes a method of use of the
   compounds and their compositions of the present invention to kill or control
   undesirable vegetation by application of an herbicidal amount of the compound to
   the vegetation or to the locus of the vegetation as well as to the soil prior to
20 emergence of the vegetation.
           Unless specifically limited otherwise, the term "alkyl", as well as
   derivative terms such as "arylalkyl", as used herein, include within their scope
   straight chain, branched chain and cyclic moieties. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, each may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents
25 selected from but not limited to halogen, hydroxy, alkoxy or alkylthio, provided
   that the substituents are sterically compatible and the rules of chemical bonding
   and strain energy are satisfied. The term "aryl" refers to a phenyl, indanyl or
   naphthyl group. The aryl group may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or
                                                 2

   more substituents selected from halogen, hydroxy, CI-C 6 alkyl or C1-C 6 alkoxy,
   provided that the substituents are sterically compatible and the rules of chemical
   bonding and strain energy are satisfied. The term "arylalkyl" refers to CI-C 4 alkyl
   groups substituted with an aryl group.
 5         Herbicidal carboxylic acids mean those herbicides containing a carboxylic
   acid group and includes benzoic acid herbicides such as chloramben, dicamba,
   2,3,6-TBA and tricamba; organophosphorusherbicides such as glufosinate and
   glyphosate;pyrimidinyloxybenzoic acid herbicides such as bispyribac and
   pyriminobac; phthalic acid herbicidessuch as chlorthal; pyridine carboxylic acid
10 herbicidessuch as aminopyralid, clopyralid, fluroxypyr, picloram and triclopyr;
   quinolinecarboxylicacid herbicides such as quinclorac and quinmerac;
   phenoxyacetic herbicides such as 4-CPA, 2,4-D, 3,4-DA and MCPA;
   phenoxybutyric herbicides such as 4-CPB, 2,4-DB, 3,4-DB and MCPB;
   phenoxypropionic herbicides such as cloprop, 4-CPP, dichlorprop, 3,4-DP,
15 fenoprop, mecoprop and mecoprop-P; and aryloxyphenoxypropionicherbicides
   such as chlorazifop, clodinafop, clofop, cyhalofop, diclofop, fenoxaprop,
   fluazifop, haloxyfop, isoxapyrifop, metamifop, propaquizafop, quizalofop and
   trifop. Preferred herbicidal carboxylic acids are 2,4-D, triclopyr, aminopyralid,
   clopyralid, fluroxypyr, picloram, cyhalofop, fluazifop, haloxyfop, clodinafop,
20 fenoxaprop, dicamba, glufosinate and glyphosate.
           N-((Ci-C1 6 ) Alkyl or arylalkyl) tri((CI -C 16 ) alkyl)ammonium hydroxide
   refers to compounds of the formula
                                          R2
                                     RI   IR3         _
                                              +         OH
                                                3

             wherein R1 , R 2 and R3 independently represents (CI-C 1 6 ) alkyl or any two
   of R1, R2 and R3 represent -(CH 2 )n- where n is an integer from 3-5 and R4
   represents ((C1-Ci 6 ) alkyl or arylalkyl). Preferred N-((CI-C 1 6) alkyl or arylalkyl)
                                                                           2   3       4
   tri((C 1 -C1 6 ) alkyl)ammonium hydroxides are those in which R', R , R and R are
 5 the same or where R , R2 and R3 are CH 3 and R4 is (C2 -C1 6 ) alkyl or arylalkyl.
             The compounds of the present invention can be conveniently prepared by
   reaction of the herbicidal carboxylic acid with an appropriate N-((Ci-C 1 6 ) alkyl or
   arylalkyl) tri((C1 -C1 6 ) alkyl)ammonium hydroxide. The herbicidal carboxylic acid
   is mixed with the N-((Ci-CI 6) alkyl or arylalkyl) tri((CI-C 1 6 ) alkyl)ammonium
10 hydroxide in a solvent like methanol followed by removal of the solvent and any
   water generated or present in the N-((Ci-C 1 6) alkyl or arylalkyl) tri((Ci-Ci 6)
   alkyl)ammonium hydroxide reactant under vacuum.
             The term herbicide is used herein to mean an active ingredient that kills,
   controls or otherwise adversely modifies the growth of plants. An herbicidally
15 effective or vegetation controlling amount is an amount of active ingredient which
   causes an adversely modifying effect and includes deviations from natural
   development, killing, regulation, desiccation, retardation, and the like. The terms
   plants and vegetation include germinant seeds, emerging seedlings and established
   vegetation.
20           Herbicidal activity is exhibited by the compounds of the present invention
   when they are applied directly to the plant or to the locus of the plant at any stage
   of growth or before planting or emergence. The effect observed depends upon the
   plant species to be controlled, the stage of growth of the plant, the application
   parameters of dilution and spray drop size, the particle size of solid components,
25 the environmental conditions at the time of use, the specific compound employed,
   the specific adjuvants and carriers employed, the soil type, and the like, as well as
                                                4

   the amount of chemical applied. These and other factors can be adjusted as is
   known in the art to promote non-selective or selective herbicidal action.
            Application rates of 1 to 2,000 g/Ha are generally employed in both
   postemergence and preemergence applications. The higher rates designated
 5 generally give non-selective control of a broad variety of undesirable vegetation.
   The lower rates typically give selective control and can be employed in the locus
   of crops.
            The compounds of the present invention are often applied in conjunction
   with one or more other herbicides to control a wider variety of undesirable
10 vegetation. When used in conjunction with other herbicides, the presently claimed
   compounds can be formulated with the other herbicide or herbicides, tank mixed
   with the other herbicide or herbicides or applied sequentially with the other
   herbicide or herbicides. The compounds of the present invention can, further, be
   used in conjunction with glyphosate, glufosinate or 2,4-D on glyphosate-tolerant,
15  glufosinate-tolerant or 2,4-D-tolerant crops. It is generally preferred to use the
    compounds of the invention in combination with herbicides that are selective for
    the crop being treated and which complement the spectrum of weeds controlled by
    these compounds at the application rate employed. It is further generally
    preferred to apply the compounds of the invention and other complementary
20  herbicides at the same time, either as a combination formulation or as a tank mix.
            The compounds of the present invention can generally be employed in
    combination with known herbicide safeners, such as benoxacor, benthiocarb,
    brassinolide, cloquintocet (mexyl), cyometrinil, daimuron, dichlormid,
    dicyclonon, dimepiperate, disulfoton, fenchlorazole-ethyl, fenclorim, flurazole,
25  fluxofenim, furilazole, isoxadifen-ethyl, mefenpyr-diethyl, MG 191, MON 4660,
    naphthalic anhydride (NA), oxabetrinil, R29148 and N-phenylsulfonylbenzoic
    acid amides, to enhance their selectivity. They can additionally be employed to
                                               5

   control undesirable vegetation in many crops that have been made tolerant to or
   resistant to them or to other herbicides by genetic manipulation or by mutation
   and selection. For example, corn, wheat, rice, soybean, sugarbeet, cotton, canola,
   and other crops that have been made tolerant or resistant to compounds that are
 5 acetolactate synthase inhibitors in sensitive plants can be treated. Many
   glyphosate and glufosinate tolerant crops can be treated as well, alone or in
   combination with these compounds. Some crops (e.g. cotton) have been made
   tolerant to auxinic herbicides such as 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. These
   compounds may be used to treat such resistant crops or other auxin tolerant crops.
10         While it is possible to utilize the compounds directly as herbicides, it is
   preferable to use them in mixtures containing a herbicidally effective amount of
   the compound along with at least one agriculturally acceptable adjuvant or carrier.
   Suitable adjuvants or carriers should not be phytotoxic to valuable crops,
   particularly at the concentrations employed in applying the compositions for
15 selective weed control in the presence of crops, and should not react chemically
   with the compounds or other composition ingredients. Such mixtures can be
   designed for application directly to weeds or their locus or can be concentrates or
   formulations that are normally diluted with additional carriers and adjuvants
   before application. They can be solids, such as, for example, dusts, granules,
20 water dispersible granules, or wettable powders, or liquids, such as, for example,
   emulsifiable concentrates, solutions, emulsions or suspensions.
           Suitable agricultural adjuvants and carriers that are useful in preparing the
   herbicidal mixtures of the invention are well known to those skilled in the art.
           Liquid carriers that can be employed include water, toluene, xylene,
25 petroleum naphtha, crop oil, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, cyclohexanone,
   trichloroethylene, perchloroethylene, ethyl acetate, amyl acetate, butyl acetate,
   propylene glycol monomethyl ether and diethylene glycol monomethyl ether,
                                               6

   methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, amyl alcohol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol,
   glycerine, and the like. Water is generally the carrier of choice for the dilution of
   concentrates.
           Suitable solid carriers include talc, pyrophyllite clay, silica, attapulgus
 5 clay, kaolin clay, kieselguhr, chalk, diatomaceous earth, lime, calcium carbonate,
   bentonite clay, Fuller's earth, cotton seed hulls, wheat flour, soybean flour,
   pumice, wood flour, walnut shell flour, lignin, and the like.
           It is usually desirable to incorporate one or more surface-active agents into
   the compositions of the present invention. Such surface-active agents are
10 advantageously employed in both solid and liquid compositions, especially those
   designed to be diluted with carrier before application. The surface-active agents
   can be anionic, cationic or nonionic in character and can be employed as
   emulsifying agents, wetting agents, suspending agents, or for other purposes.
   Typical surface-active agents include salts of alkyl sulfates, such as diethanol
15 ammonium lauryl sulfate; alkylarylsulfonate salts, such as calcium dodecyl
   benzenesulfonate; alkylphenol-alkylene oxide addition products, such as
   nonylphenol-C 18 ethoxylate; alcohol-alkylene oxide addition products, such as
   tridecyl alcohol-C1 6 ethoxylate; soaps, such as sodium stearate; alkyl
   naphthalenesulfonate salts, such as sodium dibutylnaphthalenesulfonate; dialkyl
20 esters of sulfosuccinate salts, such as sodium di(2-ethylhexyl) sulfosuccinate;
   sorbitol esters, such as sorbitol oleate; quaternary amines, such as lauryl trimethyl
   ammonium chloride; polyethylene glycol esters of fatty acids, such as poly
   ethylene glycol stearate; block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide;
   and salts of mono and dialkyl phosphate esters.
25          Other adjuvants commonly used in agricultural compositions include
   compatibilizing agents, antifoam agents, sequestering agents, neutralizing agents
    and buffers, corrosion inhibitors, dyes, odorants, spreading agents, penetration
                                               7

    aids, sticking agents, dispersing agents, thickening agents, freezing point
    depressants, antimicrobial agents, and the like. The compositions may also
    contain other compatible components, for example, other herbicides, plant growth
    regulants, fungicides, insecticides, and the like and can be formulated with liquid
 5  fertilizers or solid, particulate fertilizer carriers such as ammonium nitrate, urea
    and the like.
             The concentration of the active ingredients in the herbicidal compositions
    of this invention is generally from 0.001 to 98 percent by weight. Concentrations
    from 0.01 to 90 percent by weight are often employed. In compositions designed
10  to be employed as concentrates, the active ingredient is generally present in a
    concentration from 5 to 98 weight percent, preferably 10 to 90 weight percent.
    Such compositions are typically diluted with an inert carrier, such as water, before
    application. The diluted compositions usually applied to weeds or the locus of
   weeds generally contain 0.001 to 2 weight percent active ingredient and preferably
15 contain 0.01 to 1 weight percent.
             The present compositions can be applied to weeds or their locus by the use
   of conventional ground or aerial dusters, sprayers, and granule applicators, by
   addition to irrigation water, and by other conventional means known to those
   skilled in the art.
20           The following Examples are presented to illustrate the various aspects of
   this invention and should not be construed as limitations to the claims.
                                                  8

   General Preparative Example:
           The carboxylic acid herbicide and the N-((Ci-C 1 6) alkyl or arylalkyl)
   tri((CI-C 1 6 ) alkyl)ammonium hydroxide are combined.in equimolar amounts in
   methanol at room temperature to give a solution of the ammonium salt of the
 5 carboxylic acid. The product is then isolated by evaporative removal of the
   methanol (and any water present) at room temperature to 50 *C. The products
   may be purified by methods known in the art to provide the compounds of the
   present invention as liquids or solids. Alternatively, the products of the invention
   may be prepared in water solvent and used as obtained. Table I below lists the
10 compounds prepared in this manner with their physical state and MP where
   applicable.
            Alternatively, the samples may be prepared by combining equimolar
   amounts of the carboxylic acid herbicide, an N-((CI-C 1 6) alkyl or arylalkyl)
15 tri((Ci-C 1 6) alkyl)ammonium halide (such as chloride or bromide) and a metal
   hydroxide (such as sodium or potassium hydroxide) in a solvent such as methanol.
   The product is then isolated by evaporative removal of the methanol (and any
   water present) at room temperature to 50 "C and removing the metal halide salt by
   selective dissolution in water, to provide the compounds of the present invention
20 as liquids or solids.
                                              9

                                              TABLE I
    Compound                      Amine                   Acid   Physical State Melting Range (*C)
        Ia          tetramethylammonium hydroxide        2,4-D       solid         213-216 dec
        lb           tetraethylammonium hydroxide        2,4-D      liquid             95-105
        ic          tetrapropyl ammonium hydroxide       2,4-D      liquid              NA
        Id           tetrabutyl ammonium hydroxide       2,4-D       solid             53-58
        le                  choline hydroxide            2,4-D       solid            105-120
        if       N-benzyltrimethylammonium hydroxide     2,4-D       solid             84-86
        lg     N-hexadecyltrimethylammonium hydroxide    2,4-D       solid             65-72
        2a          tetramethylammonium hydroxide      triclopyr     solid           >170 dec
        2b           tetraethylammonium hydroxide      triclopyr     solid             79-86
        2c         tetrapropyl ammonium hydroxide      triclopyr    liquid              NA
        2d           tetrabutyl ammonium hydroxide     triclopyr     solid             88-93
        2e                  choline hydroxide          triclopyr     solid           >160 dec
        2f      N-benzyltrimethylammonium hydroxide    triclopyr     solid         166-171 dec
        2g     N-hexadecyltrimethylammonium hydroxide  triclopyr     solid             73-77
        3a          tetramethylammonium hydroxide     cyhalofop      solid            144-155
        3b           tetrabutyl ammonium hydroxide    cyhalofop     liquid              NA
        3c       N-benzyltrimethylammonium hydroxide  cyhalofop      solid            162-166
        3d     N-hexadecyltrimethylammonium hydroxide cyhalofop     liquid              NA
        4a          tetramethylammonium hydroxide      dicamba       solid         175-181 dec
   Post-emergence application methods for Herbicide Evaluations.
 5          A peat based potting soil, Metro-mix 360, was used as the soil media for
   this test. Metro-mix is a growing medium consisting of 35 to 45% specially
   processed Coconut Coir Pith, 10 to 20% horticultural grade vermiculite, 15 to
   25% processed Ash Bark, 20 to 30% choice Canadian Sphagnum Peat Moss and
   proprietary nutrients and other ingredients. Several seeds of each species were
10 planted in 10 cm square pots and top watered twice daily. Plant material was
   propagated in the greenhouse at a constant temperature of 26 to 28 'C and 50 to
   60% relative humidity. Natural light was supplemented with 1000-watt metal
                                                   10

    halide overhead lamps with an average illumination of 500 pE m-2 s I
    photosynthetic active radiation (PAR). Day length was 16 hours. Plant material
    was top-watered prior to treatment and sub-irrigated after treatment. Treatments
   were applied with a tracksprayer manufactured by Allen Machine Works. The
 5  sprayer utilized an 8002E spray nozzle, spray pressure of 262 kPa pressure and
    speed of 1.5 mph (2.4 km/h) to deliver 187 [IHa. The nozzle height was 46 cm
   above the plant canopy. The growth stage of the various weed species ranged
   from 2 to 4 leaf. Treatments were replicated 3 times. Plants were returned to the
   greenhouse after treatment and sub-watered throughout the duration of the
10 experiment. Plant material was fertilized twice weekly with Hoagland's fertilizer
   solution. Percent visual injury assessments were made on a scale of 0 to 100% as
   compared to the untreated control plants (where 0 is equal to no injury and 100 is
   equal to complete death of the plant). The results are listed in Table II.
15 TABLE II. Efficacy data generated in the greenhouse for 2,4-D and triclopyr on
   broadleaf weeds. Data are from evaluations taken 14 days after application.
                                   Rate            Broadleaf Dock             Kochia
   Treatment / Compound            (g ae/ha)             Rumex          Kochia scoparia
   Number                                             obtusifolia
                                                  -------------- % Control --------------
   2,4-D dimethylamine              560                     77                  86
   (DMA)
    la                             560                      77                  83
    lb                             560                      79                  89
    ic                             560                      73                  83
    le                             560                      68                  86
   Triclopyr triethylamine         560                      81                  91
   (TEA)
   2a                              560                      85                  79
   2b                              560                      79                  88
   2c                              560                      79                  95
                                             11

   Method for evaluating the volatility of herbicide standards and the compounds
   derived from combining a carboxylic acid herbicide with either a
   tetraalkylammonium or an (arylalkyl)trialkylammonium hydroxide.
            Four pots of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) grown in 4 inch square pots
 5 were sprayed at 11200 g ae/ha with each of the different forms of 2,4-D.
   Treatments were applied with a tracksprayer manufactured by Allen Machine
   Works. The sprayer utilized an 8002E spray nozzle, spray pressure of 262 kPa
   pressure and speed of 1.5 mph (2.4 km/h) to deliver 187 IJHa. The nozzle height
   was 46 cm above the plant canopy. The growth stage of the wheat was 1 to 2 leaf.
10 The wheat plants were allowed to thoroughly dry to ensure that none of the spray
   solution was present when they were moved into a clean pot flat. A known
   sensitive species, grapes ( Vitis labrusca L. ) were placed at the opposite end of
   the flat. All of the pots were covered with a humidome with small       inch
   (1.27 cm) diameter holes cut into the end where the wheat was placed and a small
15 box fan powered with a battery in the other end to pull air across the treated wheat
   plants and over the top of grapes.   Plants were placed into a growth chamber with
   the temperature set at 40 *C with a 14 hour day and a 10 hour night cycle. A 24
   hour exposure period was used after which the sensitive plants were then removed
   and placed in the greenhouse and evaluated for injury from vapor exposure to the
20 treatments. The results are listed in Table III.
                                              12

Table III. Injury to grapes from vapor exposure for 24 hours to various forms of
2,4-D, Triclopyr and Dicamba. Evaluations were taken 7 days after exposure to
the vapors.
Treatment / Compound Number                ------------------- % Injury ---------------
2,-4-D butoxyethylester (BEE)                                   100
2,-4-D dimethylamine (DMA)                                      78
lb                                                               0
Triclopyr triethylamine (TEA)                                   57
2b                                                               6
Dicamba DMA                                                     70
4a                                                               12
                                        13

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
          1.        A herbicidal compound comprising the reaction product produced by the
process of combining
          2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid; and
          a (tetraalkyl) ammonium hydroxide;
          in which the (tetraalkyl)ammonium hydroxide is a compound of the formula
                                                   R2
                                              R I .R3
                                                    N+       OH
          wherein when R 1 , R 2 and R 3 are methyl, R 4 is not methyl.
          2.        A herbicidal compound according to claim 1; wherein R', R 2 and R3
independently represents (C1 -C 1 6 ) alkyl or any two of R', R 2 and R3 represent -(CH 2 )n- where n
is an integer from 3-5 and R 4 represents ((C1 -C 16 ) alkyl or arylalkyl).
          3.        A herbicidal compound comprising the reaction product produced by the
process of combining
          2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid; and
          a (tetraalkyl) ammonium hydroxide;
          in which the (tetraalkyl)ammonium hydroxide is a compound of the formula
                                                   R2
                                              R1   IR3
                                                    N+       OH
          wherein R1, R2 and R 3 independently represents (C 1-C 16 ) alkyl or any two of R1, R2 and
R 3 represent -(CH 2 )n1 - where n is an integer from 3-5 and R 4 represents ((C 2 -C1 6 ) alkyl or
arylalkyl).
                                                      14

          4.       A herbicidal compound according to any one of claims I to 3 in which R', R2
and R 3 are CH 3 and R 4 is (C2 -C 16) alkyl or arylalkyl.
          5.       A herbicidal compound according to claim 4 in which R4 is benzyl or
hexadecyl.
          6.       A herbicidal compound according to any one of claims I to 3 in which R', R2 ,
R3 and R4 are all methyl, ethyl, propyl or, butyl.
          7.       A herbicidal compound comprising the reaction product produced by the
process of combining
          2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid; and
          choline hydroxide,
          said herbicidal compound having the formula:
                                          o:
                                                       N      OH
                                                  CI
                                          C1
          8.       A herbicidal composition comprising a herbicidally effective amount of a
compound, according to any one of claims 1 to 7, or mixtures thereof, in admixture with an
agriculturally acceptable adjuvant or carrier.
          9.       A herbicidal composition according to claim 8 further comprising one or more
other herbicides.
          10.      A herbicidal composition according to claim 8 or 9 wherein the concentration
of active ingredients in the composition is from 0.001 to 98 percent by weight.
          11.      A herbicidal composition according to claim 8 or 9 wherein the concentration
of active ingredients in the composition is from 0.1 to 90 percent by weight.
                                                     15

          12.      A method of controlling undesirable vegetation which comprises contacting the
vegetation or the locus thereof with, or applying to the soil to prevent the emergence of
vegetation, a herbicidally effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 7.
          13.      A method of controlling undesirable vegetation which comprises contacting the
vegetation or the locus thereof with, or applying to the soil to prevent the emergence of
vegetation, a herbicidally effective amount of a composition according to any one of claims 8 to
11.
          14.      A method of controlling undesirable vegetation in a crop that has been made
tolerant or resistant to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, which comprises contacting the
vegetation or the locus thereof with, or applying to the soil to prevent the emergence of
vegetation, a herbicidally effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 7.
          15.      A method of controlling undesirable vegetation in a crop that has been made
tolerant or resistant to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, which comprises contacting the
vegetation or the locus thereof with, or applying to the soil to prevent the emergence of
vegetation, a herbicidally effective amount of a composition according to any one of claims 8 to
11.
                                                 16

