                                      ABSTRACT
In certain aspects, the present invention provides compositions and methods for
modulating (promoting or inhibiting) growth of a tissue, such as bone, cartilage, muscle,
fat, and/or neuronal tissue. The present invention also provides methods of screening
compounds that modulate activity of an ActRIIB protein and/or an ActRIIB ligand. The
compositions and methods provided herein are useful in treating diseases associated
with abnormal activity of an ActRIIB protein and/or an ActRIIB ligand.

                  VARIANTS DERIVED FROM ACTRIlB AND USES THEREFOR
             The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
   No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
             This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial Nos.
   60/899,304, filed February 2, 2007; 60/927,088 filed May 1, 2007; and 60/931,880, filed
   May 25, 2007. All the teachings of the above-referenced applications are incorporated
   herein by reference.
10 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily contains a variety of
   growth factors that share common sequence elements and structural motifs. These
   proteins are known to exert biological effects on a large variety of cell types in both
   vertebrates and invertebrates. Members of the superfamily perform important functions
15 during embryonic development in pattern formation and tissue specification and can
   influence a variety of differentiation processes, including adipogenesis, myogenesis,
   chondrogenesis, cardiogenesis, hematopoiesis, neurogenesis, and epithelial cell
   differentiation. The family is divided into two general branches: the BMP/GDF and the
   TGF-beta/ Activin/BMP 10 branches, whose members have diverse, often
20 complementary effects. By manipulating the activity of a member of the TGF-beta family,
   it is often possible to cause significant physiological changes in an organism. For
   example, the Piedmontese and Belgian Blue cattle breeds carry a loss-of-function
   mutation in the GDF8 (also called myostatin) gene that causes a marked increase in
   muscle mass. Grobet et al., Nat Genet. 1997, 17(l):71-4. Furthermore, in humans,
25 inactive alleles of GDF8 are associated with increased muscle mass and, reportedly,
   exceptional strength. Schuelke et al., N Engl J Med 2004, 350:2682-8.
             Changes in muscle, bone, cartilage and other tissues may be achieved by
   agonizing or antagonizing signaling that is mediated by an appropriate TGF-beta family
   member. Thus, there is a need for agents that function as potent regulators of TGF-beta
30 signaling.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             In certain aspects, the present disclosure provides ActRHB polypeptides,
   particularly ActRHB variants, including amino- and carboxy-terminal truncations and
   sequence alterations.
                                                   1

   Such ActRUB polypeptides may be used for the treatment of a variety of disorders or conditions,
   in particular, muscle and neuromuscular disorders (e.g., muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral
   sclerosis (ALS), and muscle atrophy), adipose tissue disorders (e.g., obesity), metabolic
   disorders (e.g., type 2 diabetes), neurodegenerative disorders, and muscle wasting associated
   with old age (sarcopenia), prostate cancer therapy, and cancer cachexia. In specific
   embodiments, ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRIIB polypeptides) can antagonize an
   ActRIIB receptor in any process associated with ActRIIB activity. Optionally, ActRHB
   polypeptides of the invention may be designed to preferentially antagonize one or more ligands
   of ActRIIB receptors, such as GDF8 (also called myostatin), GDF 11, activin A, activin B,
 P activin AB, Nodal, and BMP7 (also called OP-1), and may therefore be useful in the treatment
   of additional disorders. Examples of ActRIIB polypeptides include the naturally occurring
   ActRIUIB polypeptides as well as functional variants thereof The disclosure also provides a set
   of variants derived from ActRIB that have greatly diminished affinity for activin while
   retaining binding to GDFI I. These variants exhibit desirable effects on muscle while reducing
   effects on other tissues.
            In certain aspects, the disclosure provides pharmaceutical preparations comprising a
   soluble ActRJIB polypeptide that binds to an ActRJ[B ligand such as GDF8, GDFI 1, activin,
   BM27 or nodal, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Optionally, the soluble ActRB
   polypeptide binds to an ActRIIB ligand with a Kd less than 10 micromolar or less than I
 I micromolar, 100, 10 or 1 nanomolar. Optionally, the soluble ActRIIB polypeptide inhibits
   ActRIIB signaling, such as intracellular signal transduction events triggered by an ActRHIB
   ligand. A soluble ActRIIB polypeptide for use in such a preparation may be any of those
   disclosed herein, such as a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID
   NOs: 1, 2, 5, 6 and 12, or having an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%,
5  97% or 99% identical to an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: ; 1, 2, 5, 6 and 12.
   A soluble ActRIlB polypeptide may include a functional fragment of a natural ActRUB
   polypeptide, such as one comprising at least 10, 20 or 30 amino acids of a sequence selected
   from SEQ ID NOs: : 1, 2, 5, 6 and 12 or a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, lacking the C-terminal 1,
   2, 3, 4, 5 or 10 to 15 amino acids and lacking 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acids at the N-terminus. A
0  preferred polypeptide will comprise a truncation relative to SEQ ID NO:l of between 2 and 5
   amino acids at the N-terminus and no more than 3 amino acids at the C-terminus. Another
   preferred polypeptide is that presented as SEQ ID NO: 12. A soluble ActRIIB polypeptide may
   include one or more alterations in the amino acid sequence (e.g., in the ligand-binding domain)
                                                    2

  relative to a naturally occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. The alteration in the amino acid sequence
  may, for example, alter glycosylation of the polypeptide when produced in a mammalian, insect
  or other eukaryotic cell or alter proteolytic cleavage of the polypeptide relative to the naturally
  occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. A soluble ActRIB polypeptide may be a fusion protein that
  has, as one domain, an ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g., a ligand-binding domain of an ActRIIB or a
  variant thereof) and one or more additional domains that provide a desirable property, such as
  improved pharmacokinetics, easier purification, targeting to particular tissues, etc. For example,
  a domain of a fusion protein may enhance one or more of in vivo stability, in vivo half life,
  uptake/administration, tissue localization or distribution, formation of protein complexes,
  multimerization of the fusion protein, and/or purification. A soluble ActRUIB fusion protein
  may include an immunoglobulin Fc domain (wild-type or mutant) or a serum albumin. In
  certain embodiments, an ActRIIB-Fc fusion comprises a relatively unstructured linker
  positioned between the Fc domain and the extracellular ActRIlIB domain. This unstructured
  linker may correspond to the roughly 15 amino acid unstructured region at the C-terminal end of
  the extracellular domain of ActRIIB (the "tail'), or it may be an artificial sequence of between S
  and 15, 20, 30, 50 or more amino acids that are relatively free of secondary structure. A linker
  may be rich in glycine and proline residues and may, for example, contain repeating sequences
  of threonine/serine and glycines (e.g., TG 4 or SG 4 repeats). A fusion protein may include a
  purification subsequence, such as an epitope tag, a FLAG tag, a polyhistidine sequence, and a
  GST fusion. Optionally, a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide includes one or more modified amino
  acid residues selected from: a glycosylated amino acid, a PEGylated amino acid, a farnesylated
  amino acid, an acetylated amino acid, a biotinylated amino acid, an amino acid conjugated to a
  lipid moiety, and an amino acid conjugated to an organic derivatizing agent. A pharmaceutical
  preparation may also include one or more additional compounds such as a compound that is
5 used to treat an ActRUB-associated disorder. Preferably, a pharmaceutical preparation is
  substantially pyrogen free. In general, it is preferable that an ActRIIB protein be expressed in a
  mammalian cell line that mediates suitably natural glycosylation of the ActRIIB protein so as to
  diminish the likelihood of an unfavorable immune response in a patient. Human and CHO cell
  lines have been used successfully, and it is expected that other common mammalian expression
0 vectors will be useftil.
          In certain aspects, the disclosure provides packaged pharmaceuticals comprising a
  pharmaceutical preparation described herein and labeled for use in promoting growth of a tissue
                                                   3

  or diminishing or preventing a loss of a tissue in a human. Exemplary tissues include bone,
  cartilage, muscle, fat, and neuronal tissue.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides soluble ActRIIB polypeptides comprising an
  altered ligand-binding (e.g., GDF8-binding) domain. Such altered ligand-binding domains of an
  ActRIIB receptor comprise one or more mutations at amino acid residues such as E37, E39,
  R40, K55, RS6, Y60, A64, K74, W78, L79, D80, F82 and F101 of human ActRIIB.
  (Numbering is relative to SEQ ID NO:2). Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain can
  have increased selectivity for a ligand such as GDF8/GDF 11 relative to a wild-type ligand
  binding domain of an ActRIIB receptor. To illustrate, these mutations are demonstrated herein
  to increase the selectivity of the altered ligand-binding domain for GDFl I (and therefore,
  presumably, GDF8) over activin (presented with respect to ActRIIB): K74Y, K74F, K741 and
  D80I. The following mutations have the reverse effect, increasing the ratio of activin binding
  over GDF 11: D54A, K55A, L79A and F82A. The overall (GDF1 1 and activin) binding activity
  can be increased by inclusion of the "tail" region or, presumably, an unstructured linker region,
  and also by use of a K74A mutation. Other mutations that caused an overall decrease in ligand
  binding affinity, include: R40A, E37A, R56A, W78A, D80K, D80R, D80A, D80G, D80F,
  D80M and D80N. Mutations may be combined to achieve desired effects. For example, many
  of the mutations that affect the ratio of GDFI I:Activin binding have an overall negative effect
  on ligand binding, and therefore, these may be combined with mutations that generally increase
  ligand binding to produce an improved binding protein with ligand selectivity.
            Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain has a ratio of K for activin binding to Kd
  for GDF8 binding that is at least 2, 5, 10, or even 100 fold greater relative to the ratio for the
  wild-type ligand-binding domain. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain has a ratio of
  IC 50 for inhibiting activin to ICso for inhibiting GDF8/GDF1 1 that is at least 2, 5, 10, or even
5 100 fold greater relative to the wild-type ligand-binding domain. Optionally, the altered ligand
  binding domain inhibits GDF8/GDFl 1 with an ICso at least 2, 5, 10, or even 100 times less than
  the ICso for inhibiting activin. These soluble ActRIIB polypeptides can be fusion proteins that
  include an immunoglobulin Fec domain (either wild-type or mutant). In certain cases, the subject
  soluble ActRIIB polypeptides are antagonists (inhibitors) of GDF8/GDFI 1.
0          Other variants of ActRUB are contemplated, such as the following. A variant ActRJIB
  fusion protein comprising a portion derived from the ActRIlB sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 and a
  second polypeptide portion, wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB corresponds to a
  sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-29 of SEQ ID NO:2 (optionally beginning at 22-25
                                                    4

  of SEQ ID NO:2) and ending at any of amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO:2, and wherein the
  ActRIB fusion protein inhibits signaling by activin, myostatin and/or GDFI I in a cell-based
  assay. The variant ActRUB fusion protein above, wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB
  corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-29 of SEQ ID NO:2 (optionally
  beginning at 22-25 of SEQ ID NO:2) and ending at any of amino acids 109-133 of SEQ ID
  NO:2, The variant ActlRUIB fusion protein above, wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB
  corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-24 of SEQ ID NO:2 (optionally
  beginning at 22-25 of SEQ ID NO:2) and ending at any of amino acids 109-133 of SEQ lID
  NO:2. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein above, wherein the portion derived from ActRII
  corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at
  any of amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO:2. The variant ActRUB fusion protein above,
  wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino
  acids 20-24 of SEQ I) NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 118-133 of SEQ ID NO:2. The
  variant ActRIIB fusion protein above, wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB corresponds to
  a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino
  acids 118-134 of SEQ ID NO:2. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein above, wherein the portion
  derived from ActRJIB corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-24 of SEQ
  ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 128-133 of SEQ ID NO:2. The variant ActRIIB
  fusion protein above, wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB corresponds to a sequence
  beginning at any of amino acids 20-24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 128
   133 of SEQ ID NO:2. The variant ActRIJEB fusion protein above, wherein the portion derived
  from ActRIIB corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-29 of SEQ ID
  NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 118-134 of SEQ ID NO:2. The variant ActRUB fusion
  protein above, wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB corresponds to a sequence beginning
5 at any of amino acids 20-29 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 118-133 of SEQ
  ID NO:4. The variant ActRIB fusion protein above, wherein the portion derived from ActRUB
  corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-29 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at
  any of amino acids 128-134 of SEQ ID NO:2. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein above,
  wherein the portion derived from ActRIIB corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino
0 acids 20-29 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 128-133 of SEQ ID NO:2.
  Surprisingly, constructs beginning at 22-25 of SEQ ID NO:2 have activity levels greater than
  proteins having the full extracellular domain of human ActRIIB. Any of the above variant
  ActRIIB fusion protein may be produced as a homodimer. Any of the above ActRIIB fusion
                                                5

  proteins may have a heterologous portion that comprises a constant region from an IgG heavy
  chain, such as an Fe domain.
           Other variant ActRIIB proteins are contemplated, such as the following. A variant
  ActRIIB protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80% identical to the
  sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the position corresponding to 64 of
  SEQ ID NO:2 is an R or K, and wherein the variant ActRIIB protein inhibits signaling by
  activin, myostatin and/or GDFI1 in a cell-based assay. The variant ActRIIB protein above,
  wherein at least one alteration with respect to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is positioned
  outside of the ligand binding pocket. The variant ActRJIB protein above, wherein at least one
  alteration with respect to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is a conservative alteration positioned
  within the ligand binding pocket. The variant ActRIIB protein above, wherein at least one
  alteration with respect to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is an alteration at one or more positions
  selected from the group consisting of K74, R40, Q53, K55, F82 and L79. The variant ActRIIB
  protein above, wherein the protein comprises at least one N-X-S/T sequence at a position other
  than an endogenous N-X-S/T sequence of ActRIIB, and at a position outside of the ligand
  binding pocket.
           Other variant ActRIIB proteins are contemplated, such as the following. An ActRIIB
  protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80% identical to the sequence of
  amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and wherein the protein comprises at least one N-X-S/T
  sequence at a position other than an endogenous N-X-S/T sequence of ActRIIB, and at a
  position outside of the ligand binding pocket. The variant ActRIIB protein above, wherein the
  protein comprises an N at the position corresponding to position 24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and an S or
  T at the position corresponding to position 26 of SEQ ID NO:2, and wherein the variant
  ActRIB protein inhibits signaling by activin, myostatin and/or GDFI 1 in a cell-based assay.
5 The variant ActRIIB protein above, wherein the protein comprises an R or K at the position
  corresponding to position 64 of SEQ ID)NO:2. The variant ActRIIB protein above, wherein at
  least one alteration with respect to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is a conservative alteration
  positioned within the ligand binding pocket. The variant ActRIIB protein above, wherein at
  least one alteration with respect to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is an alteration at one or more
0 positions selected from the group consisting of K74, R40, Q53, K55, F82 and L79. The variant
  ActRIIB protein above, wherein the protein is a fusion protein further comprising a heterologous
  portion. Any of the above variant ActRIIB fusion protein may be produced as a homodimer.
                                                  6

  Any of the above ActRHB fusion proteins may have a heterologous portion that comprises a
  constant region from an IgG heavy chain, such as an Fc domain.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides nucleic acids encoding a soluble ActRHB
  polypeptide, which do not encode a complete ActRUB polypeptide. An isolated polynucleotide
  may comprise a coding sequence for a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide, such as described above.
  For example, an isolated nucleic acid may include a sequence coding for an extracellular domain
  (e.g., ligand-binding domain) of an ActRHIB and a sequence that would code for part or all of the
  transmembrane domain and/or the cytoplasmic domain of an ActRUB, but for a stop codon
  positioned within the transmembrane domain or the cytoplasmic domain, or positioned between
  the extracellular domain and the transmembrane domain or cytoplasmic domain. For example,
  an isolated polynucleotide may comprise a full-length ActRIlIB polynucleotide sequence such as
  SEQ ID)NO: 4, or a partially truncated version, said isolated polynucleotide further comprising a
  transcription termination codon at least six hundred nucleotides before the 3'-terminus or
  otherwise positioned such that translation of the polynucleotide gives rise to an extracellular
  domain optionally fused to a truncated portion of a full-length ActRlIB. Nucleic acids disclosed
  herein may be operably linked to a promoter for expression, and the disclosure provides cells
  transformed with such recombinant polynucleotides. Preferably the cell is a mammalian cell
  such as a CHO cell.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for making a soluble ActRHB
  polypeptide. Such a method may include expressing any of the nucleic acids (e.g., SEQ ID NO:
  3) disclosed herein in a suitable cell, such as a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell. Such a
  method may comprise: a) culturing a cell under conditions suitable for expression of the soluble
  ActRIJB polypeptide, wherein said cell is transformed with a soluble ActRUB expression
  construct; and b) recovering the soluble ActRHB polypeptide so expressed. Soluble ActRIB
5 polypeptides may be recovered as crude, partially purified or highly purified fractions using any
  of the well known techniques for obtaining protein from cell cultures.
           In certain aspects, a soluble ActRUB polypeptide disclosed herein may be used in a
  method for treating a subject having a disorder associated with muscle loss or insufficient
  muscle growth. Such disorders include muscle atrophy, muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic
0 lateral sclerosis (ALS), and a muscle wasting disorder (e.g., cachexia, anorexia, DMD
  syndrome, BMD syndrome, AIDS wasting syndrome, muscular dystrophies, neuromuscular
  diseases, motor neuron diseases, diseases of the neuromuscular junction, and inflammatory
                                                   7

  myopathies). A method may comprise administering to a subject in need thereof an effective
  amount of a soluble ActRIB polypeptide.
           In certain aspects, a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may be used in a
  method fbr decreasing the body fat content or reducing the rate of increase in body fat content,
  and for treating a disorder associated with undesirable body weight gain, such as obesity, non
  insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), cardiovascular disease, cancer, hypertension,
  osteoarthritis, stroke, respiratory problems, and gall bladder disease. These methods may
  comprise administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a soluble ActRIB
  polypeptide.
           In certain specific aspects, a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide disclosed herein may be used
  in a method for treating a disorder associated with abnormal activity of GDF8. Such disorders
  include metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, metabolic
  syndrome (e.g., syndrome X), and insulin resistance induced by trauma (e.g., bums or nitrogen
  imbalance); adipose tissue disorders (e.g., obesity); muscular dystrophy (including Duchenne
  muscular dystrophy); amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); muscle atrophy; organ atrophy;
  frailty; carpal tunnel syndrome; congestive obstructive pulmonary disease; sarcopenia, cachexia
  and other muscle wasting syndromes; osteoporosis; glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis;
  osteopenia; osteoarthritis; osteoporosis-related fractures; low bone mass due to chronic
  glucocorticoid therapy, premature gonadal failure, androgen suppression, vitamin D deficiency,
  secondary hyperparathyroidism, nutritional deficiencies, and anorexia nervosa. The method
  may comprise administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a soluble
  ActRUB polypeptide.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides a method for identifying an agent that
  stimulates growth of a tissue such as bone, cartilage, muscle and fat,. The method comprises: a)
5 identifying a test agent that binds to a ligand-binding domain of an ActRIIB polypeptide
  competitively with a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide; and b) evaluating the effect of the agent on
  growth of the tissue.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for antagonizing activity of an
  ActRIB polypeptide or an ActRlIB ligand (e.g., GDF8, GDF1 1, activin, BMP7, and Nodal) in a
0 cell. The methods comprise contacting the cell with a soluble ActRI]B polypeptide. Optionally,
  the activity of the ActRIIB polypeptide or the ActRIIB ligand is monitored by a signaling
  transduction mediated by the ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand complex, for example, by monitoring cell
                                                   8

  proliferation. The cells of the methods include an osteoblast, a chondrocyte, a myocyte, an
  adipocyte and a muscle cell.
          In certain aspects, the disclosure provides uses of a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide for
  making a medicament for the treatment of a disorder or condition as described herein.
  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          Figure 1 shows a human ActRIIB soluble (extracellular) polypeptide sequence (SEQ ID
  NO: 1). The C-terminal "tail" is underlined.
          Figure 2 shows human ActRIIB precursor protein sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2). The signal
  peptide is underlined; the extracellular domain is in bold (also referred to as SEQ ID NO: 1); and
  the potential N-linked glycosylation sites are boxed.
          Figure 3 shows a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human ActRHB soluble
  (extracellular) polypeptide, designed as SEQ ID NO: 3.
          Figure 4 shows a nucleic acid sequence encoding human ActRDB precursor protein,
  designed as SEQ ID NO: 4.
          Figure 5 shows body weight increases for mice treated with vehicle (diamonds),
  ActRIIB(R64 20-134)-mFc (squares) or the long half-life form, ActRIIB(R64 A24N 20
  134)(triangles).
          Figure 6 shows weights of dissected muscles at the end of the study. Vehicle: left
  column (light shading) of each grouping; ActRIIB(R64 20-134)-mFc: middle column (medium
  shading) of each grouping; ActRJIB(R64 A24N 20-134): right column (dark shading) of each
  grouping.
          Figure 7 shows grip strength measurements for PBS and murine ActRIIB (R64 K74A
  20-134)-mFc (or "K74A+15 tail") treated SOD mice (white and black bars, respectively). The
5 figure illustrates the increased strength of the murine ActRIIB (R64 K74A 20-134)-mFc group
  compared to the PBS group during both the early (day 117) and the later (day 149) stages of
  disease. * P<0.05, two-tailed Student's t-test.
          Figure 8 shows the Kaplan-Meier survival comparison of PBS and ActRIIB (R64 K74A
  20-134)-mFc treated SOD mice (white and black lines, respectively). The ActRIIB (R64 K74A
                                                   9

   20-134)-mFc -treated cohort has increased the average number of days of survival compared to
   the PBS group.
           Figure 9 shows the percentage of body composition change in PBS and ActRHB(R64 20
    134)-mFe HFD-fed mice (white and black bars, respectively). Treatment with murine
   ActRIJB(R64 20-134)-Fe protein significantly reduces fat mass and increases lean tissue.
           Figure 10 shows muscle cross-sections of femoris muscle (4x magnification) from old
   mice (A) or old mice treated with ActRIIB(R64 20-134)-mFe (B).
           Figure 11 shows the mean bodyweights for mice in a cancer cachexia experiment using
   CT26 colon cancer cells. Diamonds: untumoured, saline treated animals; squares: untumoured,
 I ActRIIB(R64 20-134)-mFe treated mice; triangles: tutored, saline treated animals; "x":
   tumored, ActRllB(R64 20-134)-mFc treated mice (10mg/kg); tutoredored, ActRIIB(R64 20
    134)-mFc treated mice (30mg/kg); circle: tumored, ActRHB(R64 20-134)-mFe treated mice
   (10mg/kg), treatment initiated at the time of tumor implant for a preventative modality.
           Figure 12 shows an alignment of human ActRIIA and ActRI3 with the residues that are
   deduced herein, based on composite analysis of multiple ActRIIB and ActRIIA crystal structures
   to directly contact ligand (the ligand binding pocket) indicated with boxes.
           Figure 13 shows a multiple sequence alignment of various vertebrate ActRII3 proteins
   and human ActRIIA.
 I DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    1.     Overview
           In certain aspects, the present invention relates to ActRIIB polypeptides. As used herein,
   the term "ActRIIB" refers to a family of activin receptor type 11B (ActRIIB) proteins and
   ActRilB-related proteins, derived from any species. Members of the ActRIB family are
5  generally all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with
   cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted
   serine/threonine kinase specificity. Amino acid sequences of human ActRilA precursor protein
   (provided for comparison) and ActRIIB precursor protein are illustrated in Figure 1 (SEQ ID
   NO: 1) and Figure 2 (SEQ ID NO: 2), respectively.
0          The term "ActRIB polypeptide" is used to refer to polypeptides comprising any
   naturally occurring polypeptide of an ActRIIB family member as well as any variants thereof
                                                   10

  (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful activity.
  For example, ActRIIB polypeptides include polypeptides derived from the sequence of any
  known ActRUB having a sequence at least about 80% identical to the sequence of an ActRIB
  polypeptide, and preferably at least 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or greater identity.
           In a specific embodiment, the invention relates to soluble ActRUB polypeptides. As
  described herein, the term "soluble ActRILB polypeptide" generally refers to polypeptides
  comprising an extracellular domain of an ActRIB protein. The term "soluble ActRIIB
  polypeptide," as used herein, includes any naturally occurring extracellular domain of an
  ActRIIB protein as well as any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments and
  peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful activity. For example, the extracellular domain of an
  ActRILB protein binds to a ligand and is generally soluble. Examples of soluble ActRHB
  polypeptides include ActRHB soluble polypeptides illustrated in Figure 1 (SEQ ID NO: 1.
  Other examples of soluble ActRIIB polypeptides comprise a signal sequence in addition to the
  extracellular domain of an ActRIIB protein, see Example 1. The signal sequence can be a native
  signal sequence of an ActRIB, or a signal sequence from another protein, such as a tissue
  plasminogen activator (TPA) signal sequence or a honey bee melatin (HBM) signal sequence.
           TGF-# signals are mediated by heteromeric complexes of type I and type U serine/
  threonine kinase receptors, which phosphorylate and activate downstream Smad proteins upon
  ligand stimulation (Massague, 2000, Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 1:169-178). These type I and
  type II receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular
  domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with
  predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type 11
  receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and If
  activin receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type
5 I receptors by type II receptors.
           Two related type II receptors, ActRHA and ActRHB, have been identified as the type II
  receptors for activins (Mathews and Vale, 1991, Cell 65:973-982; Attisano et al., 1992, Cell 68:
  97-108). Besides activins, ActRitA and ActRHB can biochemically interact with several other
  TGF-$ family proteins, including BMP7, Nodal, GDF8, and GDFI I (Yamashita et al., 1995, J.
0 Cell Biol. 130:217-226; Lee and McPherron, 2001, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 98:9306-9311; Yeo
  and Whitman, 2001, Mol. Cell 7: 949-957; Oh et al., 2002, Genes Dev. 16:2749-54). Applicants
  have found that soluble ActRJJA-Fc fusion proteins and ActRIIB-Fc fusion proteins have
                                                 11

  substantially different effects in vivo, with ActRIA-Fc having primary effects on bone and
  ActRIIB-Fc having primary effects on skeletal muscle.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to antagonizing a ligand of
  ActRJIB receptors (also referred to as an ActRHB ligand) with a subject ActRUB polypeptide
  (e.g., a soluble ActRUB polypeptide). Thus, compositions and methods of the present invention
  are useful for treating disorders associated with abnormal activity of one or more ligands of
  ActREB receptors. Exemplary ligands of ActRUB receptors include some TGF- family
  members, such as activin, Nodal, GDF8, GDF1 1, and BMP7.
            Activins are dimeric polypeptide growth factors and belong to the TGF-beta
  superfamily. There are three activins (A, B, and AB) that are homo/heterodimers of two closely
                               3
  related P subunits (tAA, flB   9B, and fAEB). In the TGF-beta superfamily, activins are unique and
  multifunctional factors that can stimulate hormone production in ovarian and placental cells,
  support neuronal cell survival, influence cell-cycle progress positively or negatively depending
  on cell type, and induce mesodermal differentiation at least in amphibian embryos (DePaolo et
  al., 1991, Proc SocEp Biol Med. 198:500-512; Dyson et aL, 1997, Curr Biol. 7:81-84; Woodruff,
  1998, Biochem Pharmacol. 55:953-963). Moreover, erythroid differentiation factor (EDF)
  isolated from the stimulated human monocytic leukemic cells was found to be identical to
  activin A (Murata et al., 1988, PNAS, 85:2434). It was suggested that activin A acts as a natural
  regulator of erythropoiesis in the bone marrow. In several tissues, activin signaling is
  antagonized by its related heterodimer, inhibin. For example, during the release of follicle
  stimulating hormone (FSH) from the pituitary, activin promotes FSH secretion and synthesis,
  while inhibin prevents FSH secretion and synthesis. Other proteins that may regulate activin
  bioactivity and/or bind to activin include follistatin (FS), follistatin-related protein (FSRP), qa
  macroglobulin, Cerberus, and endoglin, which are described below.
5          Nodal proteins have functions in mesoderm and endoderm induction and formation, as
  well as subsequent organization of axial structures such as heart and stomach in early
  embryogenesis. It has been demonstrated that dorsal tissue in a developing vertebrate embryo
  contributes predominantly to the axial structures of the notochord and pre-chordal plate while it
  recruits surrounding cells to form non-axial embryonic structures. Nodal appears to signal
0 through both type I and type H receptors and intracellular effectors known as Smad proteins.
  Recent studies support the idea that ActRIIA and ActRHIB serve as type TI receptors for Nodal
  (Sakuma et al., Genes Cells. 2002, 7:401-12). It is suggested that Nodal ligands interact with
  their co-factors (e.g., cripto) to activate activin type I and type U receptors, which phosphorylate
                                                    12

  Smad2. Nodal proteins are implicated in many events critical to the early vertebrate embryo,
  including mesoderm formation, anterior patterning, and left-right axis specification.
  Experimental evidence has demonstrated that Nodal signaling activates pAR3-Lux, a luciferase
  reporter previously shown to respond specifically to activin and TGF-beta. However, Nodal is
  unable to induce pTlx2-Lux, a reporter specifically responsive to bone morphogenetic proteins.
  Recent results provide direct biochemical evidence that Nodal signaling is mediated by both
  activin-TGF-beta pathway Smads, Smad2 and Smad3. Further evidence has shown that the
  extracellular cripto protein is required for Nodal signaling, making it distinct from activin or
  TGF-beta signaling.
           Growth and Differentiation Factor-8 (GDF8) is also known as myostatin. GDF8 is a
  negative regulator of skeletal muscle mass. GDF8 is highly expressed in the developing and
  adult skeletal muscle. The GDF8 null mutation in transgenic mice is characterized by a marked
  hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the skeletal muscle (McPherron et al., Nature, 1997, 3 87:83-90).
  Similar increases in skeletal muscle mass are evident in naturally occurring mutations of GDF8
  in cattle (Ashmore et al., 1974, Growth, 38:501-507; Swatland and Kieffer, J. Anim. Sci., 1994,
  38:752-757; McPherron and Lee, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 1997, 94:12457-12461; and
  Kambadur et al., Genome Res., 1997, 7:910-915) and, strikingly, in humans (Schuelke et al., N
  Engl J Med 2004;350:2682-8). Studies have also shown that muscle wasting associated with
  HIV-infection in humans is accompanied by increases in GDF8 protein expression (Gonzalez
  Cadavid et al., PNAS, 1998, 95:14938-43). In addition, GDF8 can modulate the production of
  muscle-specific enzymes (e.g., creatine kinase) and modulate myoblast cell proliferation (WO
  00/43781). The GDF8 propeptide can noncovalently bind to the mature GDF8 domain dimer,
  inactivating its biological activity (Miyazono et al. (1988) J. Biol. Chem., 263: 6407-6415;
  Wakefield et al. (1988) J. Biol. Chem., 263; 7646-7654; and Brown et al. (1990) Growth
5 Factors, 3: 35-43). Other proteins which bind to GDF8 or structurally related proteins and
  inhibit their biological activity include follistatin, and potentially, follistatin-related proteins
  (Gamer et al. (1999) Dev. Biol., 208: 222-232).
           Growth and Differentiation Factor-l l (GDF 11), also known as BMP 1, is a secreted
  protein (McPherron et al, 1999, Nat. Genet. 22: 260-264). GDF 11 is expressed in the tail bud,
0 limb bud, maxillary and mandibular arches, and dorsal root ganglia during mouse development
  (Nakashima et al., 1999, Mech. Dev. 80: 185-189). GDFI I plays a unique role in patterning
  both mesodermal and neural tissues (Gamer et al., 1999, Dev Biol., 208:222-32). GDF I was
  shown to be a negative regulator of chondrogenesis and myogenesis in developing chick limb
                                                   13

   (Garner et al., 2001, Dev Biol. 229:407-20). The expression of GDF1 I in muscle also suggests
   its role in regulating muscle growth in a similar way to GDF8. In addition, the expression of
   GDFl1 in brain suggests that GDFI I may also possess activities that relate to the function of the
   nervous system. Interestingly, GDFlI1 was found to inhibit neurogenesis in the olfactory
   epithelium (Wu et al., 2003, Neuron. 37:197-207). Hence, GDF1 1 may have in vitro and in vivo
   applications in the treatment of diseases such as muscle diseases and neurodegenerative diseases
   (e.g., amyotrophic lateral sclerosis).
            Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP7), also called osteogenic protein-i (OP-1), is well
   known to induce cartilage and bone formation. In addition, BMP7 regulates a wide array of
   physiological processes. For example, BMP7 may be the osteoinductive factor responsible for
   the phenomenon of epithelial osteogenesis. It is also found that BMP7 plays a role in calcium
   regulation and bone homeostasis. Like activin, BMP7 binds to type II receptors, ActRIIA and
   1IB. However, BMIP7 and activin recruit distinct type I receptors into heteromeric receptor
   complexes. The major BMP7 type I receptor observed was ALK2, while activin bound
 F exclusively to ALK4 (ActRIIB). BMP7 and activin elicited distinct biological responses and
   activated different Smad pathways (Macias-Silva et al., 1998, J Biol Chem. 273:25628-36).
            In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the use of certain ActRIIB
   polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRIB polypeptides) to antagonize the signaling of ActRIIB
   ligands generally, in any process associated with ActRIIB activity. Optionally, ActRIIB
   polypeptides of the invention may antagonize one or more ligands of ActRHB receptors, such as
   activin, Nodal, GDF8, GDFI 1, and BMP7, and may therefore be useful in the treatment of
   additional disorders.
            Therefore, the present invention contemplates using ActRIB polypeptides in treating or
   preventing diseases or conditions that are associated with abnormal activity of an ActRIIB or an
5  ActRIIB ligand. ActRIIB or ActRIJB ligands are involved in the regulation of many critical
   biological processes. Due to their key functions in these processes, they may be desirable
   targets for therapeutic intervention. For example, ActRIIB polypeptides (e~g., soluble ActRIIB
   polypeptides) may be used to treat human or animal disorders or conditions. Example of such
   disorders or conditions include, but are not limited to, metabolic disorders such as type 2
0  diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, metabolic syndrome (e.g., syndrome X), and insulin
   resistance induced by trauma (e.g., burns or nitrogen imbalance); adipose tissue disorders (e.g.,
   obesity); muscle and neuromuscular disorders such as muscular dystrophy (including Duchenne
   muscular dystrophy); amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); muscle atrophy; organ atrophy;
                                                    14

  frailty; carpal tunnel syndrome; congestive obstructive pulmonary disease; and sarcopenia,
  cachexia and other muscle wasting syndromes. Other examples include osteoporosis, especially
  in the elderly and/or postmenopausal women; glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis; osteopenia;
  osteoarthritis; and osteoporosis-related fractures. Yet further examples include low bone mass
  due to chronic glucocorticoid therapy, premature gonadal failure, androgen suppression, vitamin
  D deficiency, secondary hyperparathyroidism, nutritional deficiencies, and anorexia nervosa.
  These disorders and conditions are discussed below under "Exemplary Therapeutic Uses."
           The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art,
  within the context of this invention and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain
  terms are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification, to provide additional guidance to
  the practitioner in describing the compositions and methods of the invention and how to make
  and use them. The scope or meaning of any use of a term will be apparent from the specific
  context in which the term is used.
           "About" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for the
  quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Typically, exemplary
  degrees of error are within 20 percent (%), preferably within 10%, and more preferably within
  5% of a given value or range of values.
           Alternatively, and particularly in biological systems, the terms "about" and
  "approximately" may mean values that are within an order of magnitude, preferably within 5
  fold and more preferably within 2-fold of a given value. Numerical quantities given herein are
  approximate unless stated otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately" can be
  inferred when not expressly stated.
           The methods of the invention may include steps of comparing sequences to each other,
  including wild-type sequence to one or more mutants (sequence variants). Such comparisons
5 typically comprise alignments of polymer sequences, e.g., using sequence alignment programs
  and/or algorithms that are well known in the art (for example, BLAST, FASTA and
  MEGALIGN, to name a few). The skilled artisan can readily appreciate that, in such
  alignments, where a mutation contains a residue insertion or deletion, the sequence alignment
  will introduce a "gap" (typically represented by a dash, or "A") in the polymer sequence not
0 containing the inserted or deleted residue.
           "Homologous," in all its grammatical forms and spelling variations, refers to the
  relationship between two proteins that possess a "common evolutionary origin," including
                                                  15

  proteins from superfamilies in the same species of organism, as well as homologous proteins
  from different species of organism. Such proteins (and their encoding nucleic acids) have
  sequence homology, as reflected by their sequence similarity, whether in terms of percent
  identity or by the presence of specific residues or motifs and conserved positions.
          The term "sequence similarity," in all its grammatical forms, refers to the degree of
  identity or correspondence between nucleic acid or amino acid sequences that may or may not
  share a common evolutionary origin.
           However, in common usage and in the instant application, the term "homologous," when
  modified with an adverb such as "highly," may refer to sequence similarity and may or may not
  relate to a common evolutionary origin.
  2.       ActRIIB Polypeptides
           In certain aspects, the invention relates to ActRIB variant polypeptides (e.g., soluble
  ActRIIB polypeptides). Optionally, the fragments, functional variants, and modified forms have
  similar or the same biological activities of their corresponding wild-type ActRIIB polypeptides.
  For example, an ActRIB variant of the invention may bind to and inhibit function of an
  ActRIB ligand (e.g., activin A, activin AB, activin B, Nodal, GDF8, GDFI11 or BMP7).
  Optionally, an ActRUIB polypeptide modulates growth of tissues such as bone, cartilage, muscle
  or fat. Examples of ActRIB polypeptides include human ActRUIB precursor polypeptide (SEQ
  ID NO: 2), and soluble human ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 1, 5, 6 and 12).
          The disclosure identifies functionally active portions and variants of ActRIIB.
  Applicants have ascertained that an Fc fusion protein having the sequence disclosed by Hilden et
  al. (Blood. 1994 Apr 15;83(8):2163-70), which has an Alanine at the position corresponding to
  amino acid 64 of SEQ ID NO: 2 (A64), has a relatively low affinity for activin and GDF-1 1. By
5 contrast, the same Fc fusion protein with an Arginine at position 64 (R64) has an affinity for
  activin and GDF- 11 in the low nanomolar to high picomolar range. Therefore, a sequence with
  an R64 is used as the wild-type reference sequence for human ActRIIB in this disclosure.
          Attisano et al. (Cell. 1992 Jan 10;68(1):97-108) showed that a deletion of the proline
  knot at the C-terminus of the extracellular domain of ActRIIB reduced the affinity of the
) receptor for activin. Data presented here shows that an ActRIIB-Fc fusion protein containing
  amino acids 20-119 of SEQ ID NO:2, "ActRIIB(20-119)-Fc" has reduced binding to GDF- I1
  and activin relative to an ActRIIB(20-134)-Fc, which includes the proline knot region and the
                                                   16

   complete juxtamembrane domain. However, an ActRDB(20-129)-Fc protein retains similar but
   somewhat reduced activity relative to the wild type, even though the proline knot region is
   disrupted. Thus, ActRIIB extracellular domains that stop at amino acid 134, 133, 132, 131, 130
   and 129 are all expected to be active, but constructs stopping at 134 or 133 may be most active.
   Similarly, mutations at any of residues 129-134 are not expected to alter ligand binding affinity
   by large margins. In support of this, mutations of P129 and P130 do not substantially decrease
   ligand binding. Therefore, an ActRIB-Fc fusion protein may end as early as amino acid 109
   (the final cysteine), however, forms ending at or between 109 and 119 are expected to have
   reduced ligand binding. Amino acid 119 is poorly conserved and so is readily altered or
 ) truncated. Forms ending at 128 or later retain ligand binding activity. Forms ending at or
   between 119 and 127 will have an intermediate binding ability. Any of these forms may be
   desirable to use, depending on the clinical or experimental setting.
            At the N-terminus of ActRIB, it is expected that a protein beginning at amino acid 29 or
   before will retain ligand binding activity. Amino acid 29 represents the initial cysteine. An
   alanine to asparagine mutation at position 24 introduces an N-linked glycosylation sequence
   without substantially affecting ligand binding. This confirms that mutations in the region
   between the signal cleavage peptide and the cysteine cross-linked region, corresponding to
   amino acids 20-29 are well tolerated. In particular, constructs beginning at position 20, 21, 22,
   23 and 24 will retain activity, and constructs beginning at positions 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 are
 ) also expected to retain activity. Data shown in the Examples demonstrates that, surprisingly, a
   construct beginning at 22, 23, 24 or 25 will have the most activity.
            Taken together, an active portion of ActRIIB comprises amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID
   NO:2, and constructs may, for example, begin at a residue corresponding to amino acids 20-29
   and end at a position corresponding to amino acids 109-134. Other examples include constructs
5  that begin at a position from 20-29 or 21-29 and end at a position from 119-134, 119-133 or
    129-134, 129-133. Other examples include constructs that begin at a position from 20-24 (or
   21-24, or 22-25) and end at a position from 109-134 (or 109-133), 119-134 (or 119-133) or 129
    134 (or 129-133). Variants within these ranges are also contemplated, particularly those having
   at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 99% identity to the corresponding portion of SEQ ID NO:4.
0           The disclosure includes the results of an analysis of composite ActRIIB structures,
   shown in Figure 22, demonstrating that the ligand binding pocket is defined by residues Y31,
   N33, N35, L38 through T41, E47, E50, Q53 through K55, L57, H58, Y60, S62, K74, W78
   through N83, Y85, R87, A92, and E94 through F101. At these positions, it is expected that
                                                  17

  conservative mutations will be tolerated, although a K74A mutation is well-tolerated, as are
  R40A, K55A, F82A and mutations at position L79. R40 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that basic
  amino acids at this position will be tolerated. Q53 is R in bovine ActRIIB and K in Xenopus
  ActRUB, and therefore amino acids including R, K,      Q, N and H will be tolerated at this position.
  Thus, a general formula for an active ActRIIB variant protein is one that comprises amino acids
  29-109, but optionally beginning at a position ranging from 20-24 or 22-25 and ending at a
  position ranging from 129-134, and comprising no more than 1, 2, 5, 10 or 15 conservative
  amino acid changes in the ligand binding pocket, and zero, one or more non-conservative
  alterations at positions 40, 53, 55, 74, 79 and/or 82 in the ligand binding pocket. Such a protein
  may retain greater than 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% sequence identity to the sequence of amino
  acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO:4. Sites outside the binding pocket, at which variability may be
  particularly well tolerated, include the amino and carboxy termini of the extracellular domain (as
  noted above), and positions 42-46 and 65-73. An asparagine to alanine alteration at position 65
  (N65A) actually improves ligand binding in the A64 background, and is thus expected to have
  no detrimental effect on ligand binding in the R64 background. This change probably eliminates
  glycosylation at N65 in the A64 background, thus demonstrating that a significant change in this
  region is likely to be tolerated. While an R64A change is poorly tolerated, R64K is well
  tolerated, and thus another basic residue, such as H may be tolerated at position 64.
          ActRUIB is well-conserved across nearly all vertebrates, with large stretches of the
  extracellular domain conserved completely. Many of the ligands that bind to ActRIIB are also
  highly conserverd. Accordingly, comparisons of ActRIIB sequences from various vertebrate
  organisms provide insights into residues that may be altered. Therefore, an active, human
  ActRIB variant may include one or more amino acids at corresponding positions from the
  sequence of another vertebrate ActRUB, or may include a residue that is similar to that in the
5 human or other vertebrate sequence. The following examples illustrate this approach to defining
  an active ActRIIB variant. L46 is a valine in Xenopus ActRIIB, and so this position may be
  altered, and optionally may be altered to another hydrophobic residue, such as V, I or F, or a
  non-polar residue such as A. E52 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that this site may be tolerant of a
  wide variety of changes, including polar residues, such as E, D, K, R, H, S, T, P, G, Y and
0 probably A. T93 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that a wide structural variation is tolerated at this
  position, with polar residues favored, such as S, K, R, E, D, H, G, P, G and Y. F108 is a Y in
  Xenopus, and therefore Y or other hydrophobic group, such as 1, V or L should be tolerated.
  El 1 is K in Xenopus, indicating that charged residues will be tolerated at this position,
                                                  18

  including D, R, K and H, as well as Q and N. RI 12 is K in Xenopus, indicating that basic
  residues are tolerated at this position, including R and H. A at position 119 is relatively poorly
  conserved, and appears as P in rodents and V in Xenopus, thus essentially any amino acid
  should be tolerated at this position.
          The disclosure demonstrates that the addition of a further N-linked glycosylation site (N
  X-S/T) increases the serum half-life of an ActRIIB-Fc fusion protein, relative to the
  ActRIIB(R64)-Fc form. By introducing an asparagine at position 24 (A24N construct), an NXT
  sequence is created that confers a longer half-life. Other NX(T/S) sequences are found at 42-44
  (NQS) and 65-67 (NSS), although the latter may not be efficiently glycosylated with the R at
  position 64. N-X-S/T sequences may be generally introduced at positions outside the ligand
  binding pocket defined in Figure 12. Particularly suitable sites for the introduction of non
  endogenous N-X-S/T sequences include amino acids 20-29, 20-24, 22-25, 109-134, 120-134 or
   129-134. N-X-S/T sequences may also be introduced into the linker between the ActRIIB
  sequence and the Fc or other fusion component. Such a site may be introduced with minimal
  effort by introducing an N in the correct position with respect to a pre-existing S or T, or by
  introducing an S or T at a position corresponding to a pre-existing N. Thus, desirable alterations
  that would create an N-linked glycosylation site are: A24N, R64N, S67N (possibly combined
  with an N65A alteration), E106N, R1 12N, G120N, E123N, P129N, A132N, RI 12S and RI 12T.
  Any S that is predicted to be glycosylated may be altered to a T without creating an
  immunogenic site, because of the protection afforded by the glycosylation. Likewise, any T that
  is predicted to be glycosylated may be altered to an S. Thus the alterations S67T and S44T are
  contemplated. Likewise, in an A24N variant, an S26T alteration may be used. Accordingly, an
  ActRIIB variant may include one or more additional, non-endogenous N-linked glycosylation
  consensus sequences.
5         Position L79 may be altered to confer altered activin - myostatin (GDF- 11) binding
  properties. L79A or L79P reduces GDF-i1 binding to a greater extent than activin binding.
  L79E or L79D retains GDF-l I binding. Remarkably, the L79E and L79D variants have greatly
  reduced activin binding. In vivo experiments indicate that these non-activin receptors retain
  significant ability to increase muscle mass but show decreased effects on other tissues. These
0 data demonstrate the desirability and feasibility for obtaining polypeptides with reduced effects
  on activin.
          The variations described may be combined in various ways. Additionally, the results of
  mutagenesis program described herein indicate that there are amino acid positions in ActRIIb
                                                  19

  that are often beneficial to conserve. These include position 64 (basic amino acid), position 80
  (acidic or hydrophobic amino acid), position 78 (hydrophobic, and particularly tryptophan),
  position 37 (acidic, and particularly aspartic or glutamic acid), position 56 (basic amino acid),
  position 60 (hydrophobic amino acid, particularly phenylalanine or tyrosine). Thus, in each of
  the variants disclosed herein, the disclosure provides a framework of amino acids that may be
  conserved. Other positions that may be desirable to conserve are as follows: position 52 (acidic
  amino acid), position 55 (basic amino acid), position 81 (acidic), 98 (polar or charged,
  particularly E, D, R or K).
           In certain embodiments, isolated fragments of the ActRIIB polypeptides can be obtained
  by screening polypeptides recombinantly produced from the corresponding fragment of the
  nucleic acid encoding an ActRI[B polypeptide (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4). In addition,
  fragments can be chemically synthesized using techniques known in the art such as conventional
  Merrifield solid phase f-Moc or t-Boc chemistry. The fragments can be produced
  (recombinantly or by chemical synthesis) and tested to identify those peptidyl fragments that can
  function, for example, as antagonists (inhibitors) or agonists (activators) of an ActRIIB protein
  or an ActRIIB ligand.
           In certain embodiments, a functional variant of the ActRIIB polypeptides has an amino
  acid sequence that is at least 75% identical to an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID
  NOs: 3, 4 and 10. In certain cases, the functional variant has an amino acid sequence at least
  80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to an amino acid sequence selected
  from SEQ ID NOs: 3, 4 and 10.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates making functional variants
  by modifying the structure of an ActRIIB polypeptide for such purposes as enhancing
  therapeutic efficacy, or stability (e.g., ex vivo shelf life and resistance to proteolytic degradation
5 in vivo). Modified ActRUB polypeptides can also be produced, for instance, by amino acid
  substitution, deletion, or addition. For instance, it is reasonable to expect that an isolated
  replacement of a leucine with an isoleucine or valine, an aspartate with a glutamate, a threonine
  with a seine, or a similar replacement of an amino acid with a structurally related amino acid
  (e.g., conservative mutations) will not have a major effect on the biological activity of the
0 resulting molecule. Conservative replacements are those that take place within a family of
  amino acids that are related in their side chains. Whether a change in the amino acid sequence
  of an ActRIB polypeptide results in a functional homolog can be readily determined by
  assessing the ability of the variant ActRIlB polypeptide to produce a response in cells in a
                                                   20

  fashion similar to the wild-type ActRIIB polypeptide, or to bind to one or more ligands, such as
  activin, GDF-I1 or myostatin in a fashion similar to wild type.
           In certain specific embodiments, the present invention contemplates making mutations in
  the extracellular domain (also referred to as ligand-binding domain) of an ActRIIB polypeptide
  such that the variant (or mutant) ActRIIB polypeptide has altered ligand-binding activities (e.g.,
  binding affinity or binding specificity). In certain cases, such variant ActRiIB polypeptides
  have altered (elevated or reduced) binding affinity for a specific ligand. In other cases, the
  variant ActRIB polypeptides have altered binding specificity for their ligands.
           For example, the disclosure provides variant ActRUB polypeptides that preferentially
  bind to GDF8/GDFI 1 relative to activins. The disclosure further establishes the desirability of
  such polypeptides for reducing off-target effects, although such selective variants may be less
  desirable for the treatment of severe diseases where very large gains in muscle mass may be
  needed for therapeutic effect and where some level of off-target effect is acceptable. For
  example, amino acid residues of the ActRB protein, such as E39, K55, Y60, K74, W78, D80,
  and F101, are in the ligand-binding pocket and mediate binding to its ligands such as activin and
  GDF8. Thus, the present invention provides an altered ligand-binding domain (e.g., GDF8
  binding domain) of an ActRHB receptor, which comprises one or more mutations at those amino
  acid residues. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain can have increased selectivity for a
  ligand such as GDF8 relative to a wild-type ligand-binding domain of an ActRBB receptor. To
  illustrate, these mutations increase the selectivity of the altered ligand-binding domain for GDF8
  over activin. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain has a ratio of Kd for activin binding
  to Kd for GDF8 binding that is at least 2, 5, 10, or even 100 fold greater relative to the ratio for
  the wild-type ligand-binding domain. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain has a ratio
  of ICso for inhibiting activin to IC5o for inhibiting GDF8 that is at least 2, 5, 10, or even 100 fold
5 greater relative to the wild-type ligand-binding domain. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding
  domain inhibits GDF8 with an IC5 at least 2, 5, 10, or even 100 times less than the IC50 for
  inhibiting activin.
           As a specific example, the positively-charged amino acid residue Asp (D80) of the
  ligand-binding domain of ActRHB can be mutated to a different amino acid residue such that the
0 variant ActRDB polypeptide preferentially binds to GDF8, but not activin. Preferably, the D80
  residue is changed to an amino acid residue selected from the group consisting of: a uncharged
  amino acid residue, a negative amino acid residue, and a hydrophobic amino acid residue. As a
  further specific example, the hydrophobic residue, L79, can be altered to the acidic amino acids
                                                   21

   aspartic acid or glutamic acid to greatly reduce activin binding while retaining GDF1 1 binding.
   As will be recognized by one of skill in the art, most of the described mutations, variants or
   modifications may be made at the nucleic acid level or, in some cases, by post translational
   modification or chemical synthesis. Such techniques are well known in the art.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates specific mutations of the
   ActRIIB polypeptides so as to alter the glycosylation of the polypeptide. Exemplary
   glycosylation sites in ActRIIB polypeptides are illustrated in Figure 2. Such mutations may be
   selected so as to introduce or eliminate one or more glycosylation sites, such as O-linked or N
   linked glycosylation sites. Asparagine-linked glycosylation recognition sites generally comprise
   a tripeptide sequence, asparagine-X-threonine (where "X" is any amino acid) which is
   specifically recognized by appropriate cellular glycosylation enzymes. The alteration may also
   be made by the addition of, or substitution by, one or more serine or threonine residues to the
   sequence of the wild-type ActRUB polypeptide (for 0-linked glycosylation sites). A variety of
   amino acid substitutions or deletions at one or both of the first or third amino acid positions of a
 i glycosylation recognition site (and/or amino acid deletion at the second position) results in non
   glycosylation at the modified tripeptide sequence. Another means of increasing the number of
   carbohydrate moieties on an ActRIIB polypeptide is by chemical or enzymatic coupling of
   glycosides to the ActRIIB polypeptide. Depending on the coupling mode used, the sugar(s) may
   be attached to (a) arginine and histidine; (b) free carboxyl groups; (c) free sulfhydryl groups
   such as those of cysteine; (d) free hydroxyl groups such as those of serine, threonine, or
   hydroxyproline; (e) aromatic residues such as those of phenylalanine, tyrosine, or tryptophan; or
   (f) the amide group of glutamine. These methods are described in WO 87/05330 published Sep.
   11, 1987, and in Aplin and Wriston (1981) CRC Crit, Rev. Biochem., pp. 259-306, incorporated
   by reference herein. Removal of one or more carbohydrate moieties present on an ActRIIB
5  polypeptide may be accomplished chemically and/or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation
   may involve, for example, exposure of the ActRIIB polypeptide to the compound
   trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, or an equivalent compound. This treatment results in the
   cleavage of most or all sugars except the linking sugar (N-acetylglucosamine or N
   acetylgalactosamine), while leaving the amino acid sequence intact. Chemical deglycosylation
0  is further described by Hakimuddin et al. (1987) Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 259:52 and by Edge
   et al. (1981) Anal. Biochem. 118:131. Enzymatic cleavage of carbohydrate moieties on
   ActRIIB polypeptides can be achieved by the use of a variety of endo- and exo-glycosidases as
   described by Thotakura et al. (1987) Meth. Enzymol. 138:350. The sequence of an ActRIIB
                                                   22

   polypeptide may be adjusted, as appropriate, depending on the type of expression system used,
   as mammalian, yeast, insect and plant cells may all introduce differing glycosylation patterns
   that can be affected by the amino acid sequence of the peptide. In general, ActRIIB proteins for
   use in humans will be expressed in a mammalian cell line that provides proper glycosylation,
   such as HEK293 or CHO cell lines, although other mammalian expression cell lines are
   expected to be useful as well.
           This disclosure further contemplates a method of generating variants, particularly sets of
   combinatorial variants of an ActRIIB polypeptide, including, optionally, truncation variants;
   pools of combinatorial mutants are especially useful for identifying functional variant
   sequences. The purpose of screening such combinatorial libraries may be to generate, for
   example, ActRIIB polypeptide variants which have altered properties, such as altered
   pharmacokinetics, or altered ligand binding. A variety of screening assays are provided below,
   and such assays may be used to evaluate variants. For example, an ActRIB polypeptide variant
   may be screened for ability to bind to an ActRIIB polypeptide, to prevent binding of an ActRIIB
   ligand to an ActRIIB polypeptide.
           The activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide or its variants may also be tested in a cell-based
   or in vivo assay. For example, the effect of an ActRIB polypeptide variant on the expression of
   genes involved in bone production in an osteoblast or precursor may be assessed. This may, as
   needed, be performed in the presence of one or more recombinant ActRIIB ligand protein (e.g.,
 I BMP7), and cells may be transfected so as to produce an ActRIlB polypeptide and/or variants
   thereof, and optionally, an ActRIIB ligand. Likewise, an ActRIIB polypeptide may be
   administered to a mouse or other animal, and one or more bone properties, such as density or
   volume may be assessed. The healing rate for bone fractures may also be evaluated. Similarly,
   the activity of an ActRIB polypeptide or its variants may be tested in muscle cells, adipocytes,
5  and neuronal cells for any effect on growth of these cells, for example, by the assays as
   described below. Such assays are well known and routine in the art. A SMAD-responsive
   reporter gene may be used in such cell lines to monitor effects on downstream signaling.
           Combinatorially-derived variants can be generated which have a selective potency
   relative to a naturally occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. Such variant proteins, when expressed
0  from recombinant DNA constructs, can be used in gene therapy protocols. Likewise,
   mutagenesis can give rise to variants which have intracellular half-lives dramatically different
   than the corresponding a wild-type ActRIB polypeptide. For example, the altered protein can
   be rendered either more stable or less stable to proteolytic degradation or other processes which
                                                  23

  result in destruction of, or otherwise inactivation of a native ActRUB polypeptide. Such
  variants, and the genes which encode them, can be utilized to alter ActRIIB polypeptide levels
  by modulating the half-life of the ActRIlB polypeptides. For instance, a short half-life can give
  rise to more transient biological effects and, when part of an inducible expression system, can
  allow tighter control of recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide levels within the cell.
           In certain embodiments, the ActRIIB polypeptides of the invention may further comprise
  post-translational modifications in addition to any that are naturally present in the ActRIIB
  polypeptides. Such modifications include, but are not limited to, acetylation, carboxylation,
  glycosylation, phosphorylation, lipidation, and acylation. As a result, the modified ActRIIB
  polypeptides may contain non-amino acid elements, such as polyethylene glycols, lipids, poly
  or mono-saccharide, and phosphates. Effects of such non-amino acid elements on the
  functionality of a ActRIIB polypeptide may be tested as described herein for other ActRIIB
  polypeptide variants. When an ActRIIB polypeptide is produced in cells by cleaving a nascent
  form of the ActRIIB polypeptide, post-translational processing may also be important for correct
  folding and/or function of the protein. Different cells (such as CHO, HeLa, MDCK, 293, WI38,
  NIH-3T3 or HEK293) have specific cellular machinery and characteristic mechanisms for such
  post-translational activities and may be chosen to ensure the correct modification and processing
  of the ActRIIB polypeptides.
          In certain aspects, functional variants or modified forms of the ActRIIB polypeptides
  include fusion proteins having at least a portion of the ActRIIB polypeptides and one or more
  fusion domains. Well known examples of such fusion domains include, but are not limited to,
  polyhistidine, Glu-Glu, glutathione S transferase (GST), thioredoxin, protein A, protein G, an
  immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region (e.g., an Fc), maltose binding protein (MBP), or
  human serum albumin. A fusion domain may be selected so as to confer a desired property. For
5 example, some fusion domains are particularly useful for isolation of the fusion proteins by
  affinity chromatography. For the purpose of affinity purification, relevant matrices for affinity
  chromatography, such as glutathione-, amylase-, and nickel- or cobalt- conjugated resins are
  used. Many of such matrices are available in "kit" form, such as the Pharmacia GST
  purification system and the QIAexpressi m system (Qiagen) useful with (HIS 6 ) fusion partners.
0 As another example, a fusion domain may be selected so as to facilitate detection of the ActRlIB
  polypeptides. Examples of such detection domains include the various fluorescent proteins
  (e.g., GFP) as well as "epitope tags," which are usually short peptide sequences for which a
  specific antibody is available. Well known epitope tags for which specific monoclonal
                                                  24

   antibodies are readily available include FLAG, influenza virus haemagglutinin (HA), and c-myc
   tags. In some cases, the fusion domains have a protease cleavage site, such as for Factor Xa or
   Thrombin, which allows the relevant protease to partially digest the fusion proteins and thereby
   liberate the recombinant proteins therefrom. The liberated proteins can then be isolated from the
   fusion domain by subsequent chromatographic separation. In certain preferred embodiments, an
   ActRIIB polypeptide is fused with a domain that stabilizes the ActRIIB polypeptide in vivo (a
   "stabilizer" domain). By "stabilizing" is meant anything that increases serum half life,
   regardless of whether this is because of decreased destruction, decreased clearance by the
   kidney, or other pharmacokinetic effect. Fusions with the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin are
   known to confer desirable pharmacokinetic properties on a wide range of proteins. Likewise,
   fusions to human serum albumin can confer desirable properties. Other types of fusion domains
   that may be selected include multimerizing (e.g., dimerizing, tetramerizing) domains and
   functional domains (that confer an additional biological function, such as further stimulation of
   muscle growth).
            As a specific example, the present invention provides a fusion protein as a GDF8
   antagonist which comprises an extracellular (e.g., GDF8-binding) domain fused to an Fc domain
   (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 13).
   THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVD (A)VSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVE
   VHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCK(A)VSNKALPVPIEKTISKAKGQPR
 ) EPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGPFFLYS
   KLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHN (A)HYTQKSLSLSPGK*
            Preferably, the Fe domain has one or more mutations at residues such as Asp-265, lysine
   322, and Asn-434. In certain cases, the mutant Fc domain having one or more of these
   mutations (e.g., Asp-265 mutation) has reduced ability of binding to the FEcy receptor relative to
5  a wildtype Fe domain. In other cases, the mutant Fe domain having one or more of these
   mutations (e.g., Asn-434 mutation) has increased ability of binding to the MHC class I-related
   Fe-receptor (FeRN) relative to a wildtype Fc domain.
            It is understood that different elements of the fusion proteins may be arranged in any
   manner that is consistent with the desired functionality. For example, an ActRJIB polypeptide
0  may be placed C-terminal to a heterologous domain, or, alternatively, a heterologous domain
   may be placed C-terminal to an ActRDB polypeptide. The ActRIB polypeptide domain and the
   heterologous domain need not be adjacent in a fusion protein, and additional domains or amino
   acid sequences may be included C- or N-terminal to either domain or between the domains.
                                                   25

          In certain embodiments, the ActRIIB polypeptides of the present invention contain one
  or more modifications that are capable of stabilizing the ActRIIB polypeptides. For example,
  such modifications enhance the in vitro half life of the ActRIIB polypeptides, enhance
  circulatory half life of the ActRIIB polypeptides or reducing proteolytic degradation of the
  ActRIIB polypeptides. Such stabilizing modifications include, but are not limited to, fusion
  proteins (including, for example, fusion proteins comprising an ActRIIB polypeptide and a
  stabilizer domain), modifications of a glycosylation site (including, for example, addition of a
  glycosylation site to an ActRIIB polypeptide), and modifications of carbohydrate moiety
  (including, for example, removal of carbohydrate moieties from an ActRIIB polypeptide). In the
  case of fusion proteins, an ActRIIB polypeptide is fused to a stabilizer domain such as an IgG
  molecule (e.g., an Fe domain). As used herein, the term "stabilizer domain" not only refers to a
  fusion domain (e.g., Fc) as in the case of fusion proteins, but also includes nonproteinaceous
  modifications such as a carbohydrate moiety, or nonproteinaceous polymer, such as
  polyethylene glycol.
          In certain embodiments, the present invention makes available isolated and/or purified
  forms of the ActRIIB polypeptides, which are isolated from, or otherwise substantially free of,
  other proteins.
          In certain embodiments, ActRIIB polypeptides (unmodified or modified) of the invention
  can be produced by a variety of art-known techniques. For example, such ActRIIB polypeptides
  can be synthesized using standard protein chemistry techniques such as those described in
  Bodansky, M. Principles of Peptide Synthesis, Springer Verlag, Berlin (1993) and Grant G. A.
  (ed.), Synthetic Peptides: A User's Guide, W. H. Freeman and Company, New York (1992). In
  addition, automated peptide synthesizers are commercially available (e.g., Advanced ChemTech
  Model 396; Milligen/Biosearch 9600). Alternatively, the ActRIIB polypeptides, fragments or
5 variants thereof may be recombinantly produced using various expression systems (e.g., E. coli,
  Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, COS cells, baculovirus) as is well known in the art (also see
  below). In a further embodiment, the modified or unmodified ActRIB polypeptides may be
  produced by digestion of naturally occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIIB
  polypeptides by using, for example, a protease, e.g., trypsin, thermolysin, chymotrypsin, pepsin,
D or paired basic amino acid converting enzyme (PACE). Computer analysis (using a
  commercially available software, e.g., MacVector, Omega, PCGene, Molecular Simulation, Inc.)
  can be used to identify proteolytic cleavage sites. Alternatively, such ActRIB polypeptides may
  be produced from naturally occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIIB
                                                 26

  polypeptides such as standard techniques known in the art, such as by chemical cleavage (e.g.,
  cyanogen bromide, hydroxylamine).
  3.       Nucleic Acids Encoding ActRIIB Polypeptides
           In certain aspects, the invention provides isolated and/or recombinant nucleic acids
  encoding any of the ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRIIB polypeptides), including any
  of the variants disclosed herein. For example, SEQ ID NO: 4 encodes a naturally occurring
  ActRIIB precursor polypeptide, while SEQ ID NO: 3 encodes a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide.
  The subject nucleic acids may be single-stranded or double stranded. Such nucleic acids may be
  DNA or RNA molecules. These nucleic acids are may be used, for example, in methods for
  making ActRIIB polypeptides or as direct therapeutic agents (e.g., in a gene therapy approach).
           In certain aspects, the subject nucleic acids encoding ActRIIB polypeptides are further
  understood to include nucleic acids that are variants of SEQ ID NO: 3. Variant nucleotide
  sequences include sequences that differ by one or more nucleotide substitutions, additions or
  deletions, such as allelic variants; and will, therefore, include coding sequences that differ from
  the nucleotide sequence of the coding sequence designated in SEQ ID NO: 4.
           In certain embodiments, the invention provides isolated or recombinant nucleic acid
  sequences that are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ ID
  NO: 3. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that nucleic acid sequences
  complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3, and variants of SEQ ID NO: 3 are also within the scope of
  this invention. In further embodiments, the nucleic acid sequences of the invention can be
  isolated, recombinant, and/or fused with a heterologous nucleotide sequence, or in a DNA
  library.
           In other embodiments, nucleic acids of the invention also include nucleotide sequences
5 that hybridize under highly stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence designated in SEQ
  ID NO: 3, complement sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3, or fragments thereof. As discussed above,
  one of ordinary skill in the art will understand readily that appropriate stringency conditions
  which promote DNA hybridization can be varied. One of ordinary skill in the art will
  understand readily that appropriate stringency conditions which promote DNA hybridization can
) be varied. For example, one could perform the hybridization at 6.0 x sodium chloride/sodium
  citrate (SSC) at about 45 *C, followed by a wash of 2.0 x SSC at 50 *C. For example, the salt
  concentration in the wash step can be selected from a low stringency of about 2.0 x SSC at 50
                                                   27

  *C to a high stringency of about 0.2 x SSC at 50 *C. In addition, the temperature in the wash
  step can be increased from low stringency conditions at room temperature, about 22 *C, to high
  stringency conditions at about 65 *C. Both temperature and salt may be varied, or temperature
  or salt concentration may be held constant while the other variable is changed. In one
  embodiment, the invention provides nucleic acids which hybridize under low stringency
  conditions of 6 x SSC at room temperature followed by a wash at 2 x SSC at room temperature.
           Isolated nucleic acids which differ from the nucleic acids as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3
  due to degeneracy in the genetic code are also within the scope of the invention. For example, a
  number of amino acids are designated by more than one triplet. Codons that specify the same
  amino acid, or synonyms (for example, CAU and CAC are synonyms for histidine) may result in
  "silent" mutations which do not affect the amino acid sequence of the protein. However, it is
  expected that DNA sequence polymorphisms that do lead to changes in the amino acid
  sequences of the subject proteins will exist among mammalian cells. One skilled in the art will
  appreciate that these variations in one or more nucleotides (up to about 3-5% of the nucleotides)
  of the nucleic acids encoding a particular protein may exist among individuals of a given species
  due to natural allelic variation. Any and all such nucleotide variations and resulting amino acid
  polymorphisms are within the scope of this invention.
           In certain embodiments, the recombinant nucleic acids of the invention may be operably
  linked to one or more regulatory nucleotide sequences in an expression construct. Regulatory
  nucleotide sequences will generally be appropriate to the host cell used for expression.
  Numerous types of appropriate expression vectors and suitable regulatory sequences are known
  in the art for a variety of host cells. Typically, said one or more regulatory nucleotide sequences
  may include, but are not limited to, promoter sequences, leader or signal sequences, ribosomal
  binding sites, transcriptional start and termination sequences, translational start and termination
5 sequences, and enhancer or activator sequences. Constitutive or inducible promoters as known
  in the art are contemplated by the invention. The promoters may be either naturally occurring
  promoters, or hybrid promoters that combine elements of more than one promoter. An
  expression construct may be present in a cell on an episome, such as a plasmid, or the expression
  construct may be inserted in a chromosome. In a preferred embodiment, the expression vector
0 contains a selectable marker gene to allow the selection of transformed host cells. Selectable
  marker genes are well known in the art and will vary with the host cell used.
                                                   28

           In certain aspects of the invention, the subject nucleic acid is provided in an expression
  vector comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an ActRIB polypeptide and operably linked
  to at least one regulatory sequence. Regulatory sequences are art-recognized and are selected to
  direct expression of the ActRIIB polypeptide. Accordingly, the term regulatory sequence
  includes promoters, enhancers, and other expression control elements. Exemplary regulatory
  sequences are described in Goeddel; Gene Expression Technology: Methods in Enzymology,
  Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). For instance, any of a wide variety of expression
  control sequences that control the expression of a DNA sequence when operatively linked to it
  may be used in these vectors to express DNA sequences encoding an ActRtlB polypeptide.
  Such useful expression control sequences, include, for example, the early and late promoters of
  SV40, tet promoter, adenovirus or cytomegalovirus immediate early promoter, RSV promoters,
  the lac system, the trp system, the TAC or TRC system, T7 promoter whose expression is
  directed by T7 RNA polymerase, the major operator and promoter regions of phage lambda , the
  control regions for fd coat protein, the promoter for 3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other
  glycolytic enzymes, the promoters of acid phosphatase, e.g., Pho5, the promoters of the yeast a
  mating factors, the polyhedron promoter of the baculovirus system and other sequences known
  to control the expression of genes of prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses, and various
  combinations thereof. It should be understood that the design of the expression vector may
  depend on such factors as the choice of the host cell to be transformed and/or the type of protein
  desired to be expressed. Moreover, the vector's copy number, the ability to control that copy
  number and the expression of any other protein encoded by the vector, such as antibiotic
  markers, should also be considered.
           A recombinant nucleic acid of the invention can be produced by ligating the cloned gene,
  or a portion thereof, into a vector suitable for expression in either prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic
5 cells (yeast, avian, insect or maunalian), or both. Expression vehicles for production of a
  recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide include plasmids and other vectors. For instance, suitable
  vectors include plasmids of the types: pBR322-derived plasmids, pEMBL-derived plasmids,
  pEX-derived plasmids, pBTac-derived plasmids and pUC-derived plasmids for expression in
  prokaryotic cells, such as E. coli.
0          Some mammalian expression vectors contain both prokaryotic sequences to facilitate the
  propagation of the vector in bacteria, and one or more eukaryotic transcription units that are
  expressed in eukaryotic cells. The pcDNAI/amp, pcDNAJ/neo, pRc/CMV, pSV2gpt, pSV2neo,
  pSV2-dhfr, pTk2, pRSVneo, pMSG, pSVT7, pko-neo and pHyg derived vectors are examples of
                                                   29

   mammalian expression vectors suitable for transfection of eukaryotic cells. Some of these
   vectors are modified with sequences from bacterial plasmids, such as pBR322, to facilitate
   replication and drug resistance selection in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Alternatively,
   derivatives of viruses such as the bovine papilloma virus (BPV-1), or Epstein-Barr virus
 5 (pHEBo, pREP-derived and p205) can be used for transient expression of proteins in eukaryotic
   cells. Examples of other viral (including retroviral) expression systems can be found below in
   the description of gene therapy delivery systems. The various methods employed in the
   preparation of the plasmids and in transformation of host organisms are well known in the art.
   For other suitable expression systems for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, as well as
 ) general recombinant procedures, see Molecular Cloning A LaboratoryManual, 2nd Ed., ed. by
   Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 1989) Chapters 16 and
    17. In some instances, it may be desirable to express the recombinant polypeptides by the use of
   a baculovirus expression system. Examples of such baculovirus expression systems include
   pVL-derived vectors (such as pVL1392, pVLI 393 and pVL941), pAcUW-derived vectors (such
 5 as pAcUWI), and pflueBac-derived vectors (such as the B-gal containing pBlueBac II).
           In a preferred embodiment, a vector will be designed for production of the subject
   ActRIIB polypeptides in CHO cells, such as a Pcmv-Script vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, Calif.),
   pcDNA4 vectors (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) and pCI-neo vectors (Promega, Madison, Wisc.).
   As will be apparent, the subject gene constructs can be used to cause expression of the subject
 ) ActRIIB polypeptides in cells propagated in culture, e.g., to produce proteins, including fusion
   proteins or variant proteins, for purification.
           This invention also pertains to a host cell transfected with a recombinant gene including
   a coding sequence (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 4) for one or more of the subject ActRIIB polypeptide.
   The host cell may be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. For example, an ActRIIB polypeptide
5  of the invention may be expressed in bacterial cells such as E. coli, insect cells (e.g., using a
   baculovirus expression system), yeast, or mammalian cells. Other suitable host cells are known
   to those skilled in the art.
           Accordingly, the present invention further pertains to methods of producing the subject
   ActRIB polypeptides. For example, a host cell transfected with an expression vector encoding
0  an ActRIIB polypeptide can be cultured under appropriate conditions to allow expression of the
   ActRIIB polypeptide to occur. The ActRIIB polypeptide may be secreted and isolated from a
   mixture of cells and medium containing the ActRIIB polypeptide. Alternatively, the ActRIIB
   polypeptide may be retained cytoplasmically or in a membrane fraction and the cells harvested,
                                                   30

  lysed and the protein isolated. A cell culture includes host cells, media and other byproducts.
  Suitable media for cell culture are well known in the art. The subject ActRIIB polypeptides can
  be isolated from cell culture medium, host cells, or both, using techniques known in the art for
  purifying proteins, including ion-exchange chromatography, gel filtration chromatography,
  ultrafiltration, electrophoresis, and immunoaffinity purification with antibodies specific for
  particular epitopes of the ActRUB polypeptides. In a preferred embodiment, the ActRIIB
  polypeptide is a fusion protein containing a domain which facilitates its purification.
           In another embodiment, a fusion gene coding for a purification leader sequence, such as
  a poly-(His)/enterokinase cleavage site sequence at the N-terminus of the desired portion of the
  recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide, can allow purification of the expressed fusion protein by
  affinity chromatography using a Ni2" metal resin. The purification leader sequence can then be
  subsequently removed by treatment with enterokinase to provide the purified ActRIIB
  polypeptide (e.g., see Hochuli et al., (1987) J Chromatography411:177; and Janknecht et al.,
  PNAS USA 88:8972).
           Techniques for making fusion genes are well known. Essentially, the joining of various
  DNA fragments coding for different polypeptide sequences is performed in accordance with
  conventional techniques, employing blunt-ended or stagger-ended termini for ligation,
  restriction enzyme digestion to provide for appropriate termini, filling-in of cohesive ends as
  appropriate, alkaline phosphatase treatment to avoid undesirable joining, and enzymatic ligation.
  In another embodiment, the fusion gene can be synthesized by conventional techniques
  including automated DNA synthesizers. Alternatively, PCR amplification of gene fragments
  can be carried out using anchor primers which give rise to complementary overhangs between
  two consecutive gene fragments which can subsequently be annealed to generate a chimeric
  gene sequence (see, for example, Current Protocols in MolecularBiology, eds. Ausubel et al.,
5 John Wiley & Sons: 1992).
  4.       Antibodies
           Another aspect of the invention pertains to antibodies. An antibody that is specifically
  reactive with an ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g,, a soluble ActRHLB polypeptide) and which binds
D competitively with the ActRDEB polypeptide may be used as an antagonist of ActRIIB
  polypeptide activities. For example, by using immunogens derived from an ActRIIB
  polypeptide, anti-protein/anti-peptide antisera or monoclonal antibodies can be made by
                                                 31

  standard protocols (see, for example, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual ed. by Harlow and Lane
  (Cold Spring Harbor Press: 1988)). A mammal, such as a mouse, a hamster or rabbit can be
  immunized with an immunogenic form of the ActRIIB polypeptide, an antigenic fragment which
  is capable of eliciting an antibody response, or a fusion protein. Techniques for conferring
  immunogenicity on a protein or peptide include conjugation to carriers or other techniques well
  known in the art. An immunogenic portion of an ActRUB polypeptide can be administered in
  the presence of adjuvant. The progress of immunization can be monitored by detection of
  antibody titers in plasma or serum. Standard ELISA or other immunoassays can be used with
  the immunogen as antigen to assess the levels of antibodies.
           Following immunization of an animal with an antigenic preparation of an ActRIlB
  polypeptide, antisera can be obtained and, if desired, polyclonal antibodies can be isolated from
  the serum. To produce monoclonal antibodies, antibody-producing cells (lymphocytes) can be
  harvested from an immunized animal and fused by standard somatic cell fusion procedures with
  immortalizing cells such as myeloma cells to yield hybridoma cells. Such techniques are well
  known in the art, and include, for example, the hybridoma technique (originally developed by
  Kohler and Milstein, (1975) Nature, 256: 495-497), the human B cell hybridoma technique
  (Kozbar et al., (1983) Immunology Today, 4: 72), and the EBV-hybridoma technique to produce
  human monoclonal antibodies (Cole et al., (1985) Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy,
  Alan R. Liss, Inc. pp. 77-96). Hybridoma cells can be screened immunochemically for
  production of antibodies specifically reactive with an ActRilB polypeptide and monoclonal
  antibodies isolated from a culture comprising such hybridoma cells.
           The term "antibody" as used herein is intended to include fragments thereof which are
  also specifically reactive with a subject ActRilB polypeptide. Antibodies can be fragmented
  using conventional techniques and the fragments screened for utility in the same manner as
5 described above for whole antibodies. For example, F(ab)2 fragments can be generated by
  treating antibody with pepsin. The resulting F(ab) 2 fragment can be treated to reduce disulfide
  bridges to produce Fab fragments. The antibody of the present invention is further intended to
  include bispecific, single-chain, and chimeric and humanized molecules having affinity for an
  ActRIIB polypeptide conferred by at least one CDR region of the antibody. In preferred
0 embodiments, the antibody further comprises a label attached thereto and able to be detected
  (e.g., the label can be a radioisotope, fluorescent compound, enzyme or enzyme co-factor).
                                                  32

          In certain preferred embodiments, an antibody of the invention is a monoclonal antibody,
  and in certain embodiments, the invention makes available methods for generating novel
  antibodies. For example, a method for generating a monoclonal antibody that binds specifically
  to an ActRIIB polypeptide may comprise administering to a mouse an amount of an
  immunogenic composition comprising the ActRIIB polypeptide effective to stimulate a
  detectable immune response, obtaining antibody-producing cells (e.g., cells from the spleen)
  from the mouse and fusing the antibody-producing cells with myeloma cells to obtain antibody
  producing hybridomas, and testing the antibody-producing hybridomas to identify a hybridoma
  that produces a monocolonal antibody that binds specifically to the ActRIIB polypeptide. Once
  obtained, a hybridoma can be propagated in a cell culture, optionally in culture conditions where
  the hybridoma-derived cells produce the monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to the
  ActRIIB polypeptide. The monoclonal antibody may be purified from the cell culture.
          The adjective "specifically reactive with" as used in reference to an antibody is intended
  to mean, as is generally understood in the art, that the antibody is sufficiently selective between
  the antigen of interest (e.g., an ActRIIB polypeptide) and other antigens that are not of interest
  that the antibody is useful for, at minimum, detecting the presence of the antigen of interest in a
  particular type of biological sample. In certain methods employing the antibody, such as
  therapeutic applications, a higher degree of specificity in binding may be desirable. Monoclonal
  antibodies generally have a greater tendency (as compared to polyclonal antibodies) to
  discriminate effectively between the desired antigens and cross-reacting polypeptides. One
  characteristic that influences the specificity of an antibody:antigen interaction is the affinity of
  the antibody for the antigen. Although the desired specificity may be reached with a range of
  different affinities, generally preferred antibodies will have an affinity (a dissociation constant)
  of about 10,    10,   lift10~ or less.
5         In addition, the techniques used to screen antibodies in order to identify a desirable
  antibody may influence the properties of the antibody obtained. For example, if an antibody is
  to be used for binding an antigen in solution, it may be desirable to test solution binding. A
  variety of different techniques are available for testing interaction between antibodies and
  antigens to identify particularly desirable antibodies. Such techniques include ELISAs, surface
) plasmon resonance binding assays (e.g., the Biacore binding assay, Bia-core AB, Uppsala,
  Sweden), sandwich assays (e.g., the paramagnetic bead system of IGEN International, Inc.,
  Gaithersburg, Maryland), western blots, immunoprecipitation assays, and
  immunohistochemistry.
                                                  33

           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides antibodies that bind to a soluble ActRIIB
  polypeptide. Such antibodies may be generated much as described above, using a soluble
  ActRIIB polypeptide or fragment thereof as an antigen. Antibodies of this type can be used,
  e.g., to detect ActRIIB polypeptides in biological samples and/or to monitor soluble ActRIIB
  polypeptide levels in an individual. In certain cases, an antibody that specifically binds to a
  soluble ActRUB polypeptide can be used to modulate activity of an ActRJIB polypeptide and/or
  an ActRUB ligand, thereby regulating (promoting or inhibiting) growth of tissues, such as bone,
  cartilage, muscle, fat, and neurons.
  5.       Screening Assays
           In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the use of the subject ActRIIB
  polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRI[B polypeptides) to identify compounds (agents) which are
  agonist or antagonists of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Compounds identified through this
  screening can be tested in tissues such as bone, cartilage, muscle, fat, and/or neurons, to assess
  their ability to modulate tissue growth in vitro. Optionally, these compounds can further be
  tested in animal models to assess their ability to modulate tissue growth in vivo.
           There are numerous approaches to screening for therapeutic agents for modulating tissue
  growth by targeting the ActRIIB polypeptides. In certain embodiments, high-throughput
  screening of compounds can be carried out to identify agents that perturb ActRIIB-mediated
  effects on growth of bone, cartilage, muscle, fat, and/or neurons. In certain embodiments, the
  assay is carried out to screen and identify compounds that specifically inhibit or reduce binding
  of an ActRIIB polypeptide to its binding partner, such as an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., activin, Nodal,
  GDF8, GDFI 1 or BMP7). Alternatively, the assay can be used to identify compounds that
  enhance binding of an ActRIIB polypeptide to its binding protein such as an ActRIIB ligand. In
5 a further embodiment, the compounds can be identified by their ability to interact with an
  ActRIB polypeptide.
           A variety of assay formats will suffice and, in light of the present disclosure, those not
  expressly described herein will nevertheless be comprehended by one of ordinary skill in the art.
  As described herein, the test compounds (agents) of the invention may be created by any
D combinatorial chemical method. Alternatively, the subject compounds may be naturally
  occurring biomolecules synthesized in vivo or in vitro. Compounds (agents) to be tested for
  their ability to act as modulators of tissue growth can be produced, for example, by bacteria,
                                                   34

  yeast, plants or other organisms (e.g., natural products), produced chemically (e.g., small
  molecules, including peptidomimetics), or produced recombinantly. Test compounds
  contemplated by the present invention include non-peptidyl organic molecules, peptides,
  polypeptides, peptidomimetics, sugars, hormones, and nucleic acid molecules. In a specific
  embodiment, the test agent is a small organic molecule having a molecular weight of less than
  about 2,000 daltons.
           The test compounds of the invention can be provided as single, discrete entities, or
  provided in libraries of greater complexity, such as made by combinatorial chemistry. These
  libraries can comprise, for example, alcohols, alkyl halides, amines, amides, esters, aldehydes,
  ethers and other classes of organic compounds. Presentation of test compounds to the test
  system can be in either an isolated form or as mixtures of compounds, especially in initial
  screening steps. Optionally, the compounds may be optionally derivatized with other
  compounds and have derivatizing groups that facilitate isolation of the compounds. Non
  limiting examples of derivatizing groups include biotin, fluorescein, digoxygenin, green
  fluorescent protein, isotopes, polyhistidine, magnetic beads, glutathione S transferase (GST),
  photoactivatible crosslinkers or any combinations thereof.
           In many drug screening programs which test libraries of compounds and natural extracts,
  high throughput assays are desirable in order to maximize the number of compounds surveyed in
  a given period of time. Assays which are performed in cell-free systems, such as may be
  derived with purified or semi-purified proteins, are often preferred as "primary" screens in that
  they can be generated to permit rapid development and relatively easy detection of an alteration
  in a molecular target which is mediated by a test compound. Moreover, the effects of cellular
  toxicity or bioavailability of the test compound can be generally ignored in the in vitro system,
  the assay instead being focused primarily on the effect of the drug on the molecular target as
5 may be manifest in an alteration of binding affinity between an ActRIIB polypeptide and its
  binding protein (e.g., an ActRILB ligand).
          Merely to illustrate, in an exemplary screening assay of the present invention, the
  compound of interest is contacted with an isolated and purified ActRIIB polypeptide which is
  ordinarily capable of binding to an ActRIIB ligand, as appropriate for the intention of the assay.
D To the mixture of the compound and ActRIIB polypeptide is then added a composition
  containing an ActR.IB ligand. Detection and quantification of ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand
  complexes provides a means for determining the compound's efficacy at inhibiting (or
  potentiating) complex formation between the ActRIIB polypeptide and its binding protein. The
                                                 35

   efficacy of the compound can be assessed by generating dose response curves from data
   obtained using various concentrations of the test compound. Moreover, a control assay can also
   be performed to provide a baseline for comparison. For example, in a control assay, isolated and
   purified ActRIIB ligand is added to a composition containing the ActRIIB polypeptide, and the
   formation of ActRIlB/ActRIIB ligand complex is quantitated in the absence of the test
   compound. It will be understood that, in general, the order in which the reactants may be
   admixed can be varied, and can be admixed simultaneously. Moreover, in place of purified
   proteins, cellular extracts and lysates may be used to render a suitable cell-free assay system.
            Complex formation between the ActRIB polypeptide and its binding protein may be
   detected by a variety of techniques. For instance, modulation of the formation of complexes can
                                                                                               3 2P, 355,
   be quantitated using, for example, detectably labeled proteins such as radiolabeled (e.g.,
   1C   or 3H), fluorescently labeled (e.g., FITC), or enzymatically labeled ActRIIB polypeptide or
   its binding protein, by immunoassay, or by chromatographic detection.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates the use of fluorescence
 i polarization assays and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assays in measuring,
   either directly or indirectly, the degree of interaction between an ActRIfI polypeptide and its
   binding protein. Further, other modes of detection, such as those based on optical waveguides
   (PCT Publication WO 96/26432 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,677,196), surface plasmon resonance
   (SPR), surface charge sensors, and surface force sensors, are compatible with many
   embodiments of the invention.
            Moreover, the present invention contemplates the use of an interaction trap assay, also
   known as the "two hybrid assay," for identifying agents that disrupt or potentiate interaction
   between an ActRiHB3 polypeptide and its binding protein. See for example, U.S. Pat. No.
   5,283,317; Zervos et al. (1993) Cell 72:223-232; Madura et al. (1993) J Biol Chem 268:12046
5  12054; Bartel et al. (1993) Biotechniques 14:920-924; and Iwabuchi et al. (1993) Oncogene
   8:1693-1696). In a specific embodiment, the present invention contemplates the use of reverse
   two hybrid systems to identify compounds (e.g., small molecules or peptides) that dissociate
   interactions between an ActRIIB polypeptide and its binding protein. See for example, Vidal
   and Legrain, (1999) Nucleic Acids Res 27:919-29; Vidal and Legrain, (1999) Trends Biotechnol
0  17:374-81; and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,525,490; 5,955,280; and 5,965,368.
            In certain embodiments, the subject compounds are identified by their ability to interact
   with an ActRIIB polypeptide of the invention. The interaction between the compound and the
                                                   36

  ActRIIB polypeptide may be covalent or non-covalent. For example, such interaction can be
  identified at the protein level using in vitro biochemical methods, including photo-crosslinking,
  radiolabeled ligand binding, and affinity chromatography (Jakoby WB et al., 1974, Methods in
  Enzymology 46: 1). In certain cases, the compounds may be screened in a mechanism based
  assay, such as an assay to detect compounds which bind to an ActRIIB polypeptide. This may
  include a solid phase or fluid phase binding event. Alternatively, the gene encoding an ActRIIB
  polypeptide can be transfected with a reporter system (e.g., #-galactosidase, luciferase, or green
  fluorescent protein) into a cell and screened against the library preferably by a high throughput
  screening or with individual members of the library. Other mechanism based binding assays
  may be used, for example, binding assays which detect changes in free energy. Binding assays
  can be performed with the target fixed to a well, bead or chip or captured by an immobilized
  antibody or resolved by capillary electrophoresis. The bound compounds may be detected
  usually using colorimetric or fluorescence or surface plasmon resonance.
           In certain aspects, the present invention provides methods and agents for stimulating
  muscle growth and increasing muscle mass, for example, by antagonizing functions of an
  ActRIIB polypeptide and/or an ActRIIB ligand. Therefore, any compound identified can be
  tested in whole cells or tissues, in vitro or in vivo, to confirm their ability to modulate muscle
  growth. Various methods known in the art can be utilized for this purpose. For example,
  methods of the invention are performed such that the signal transduction through an ActRJJB
  protein activated by binding to an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., GDF8) has been reduced or inhibited. It
  will be recognized that the growth of muscle tissue in the organism would result in an increased
  muscle mass in the organism as compared to the muscle mass of a corresponding organism (or
  population of organisms) in which the signal transduction through an ActRIIB protein had not
  been so effected.
5          For example, the effect of the ActRIIB polypeptides or test compounds on muscle cell
  growth/proliferation can be determined by measuring gene expression of Pax-3 and Myf-5
  which are associated with proliferation of myogenic cells, and gene expression of MyoD which
  is associated with muscle differentiation (e.g., Amthor et al., Dev Biol. 2002, 251:241-57). It is
  known that GDF8 down-regulates gene expression of Pax-3 and Myf-5, and prevents gene
0 expression of MyoD. The ActRIIB polypeptides or test compounds are expected to antagonize
  this activity of GDF8. Another example of cell-based assays includes measuring the
  proliferation of myoblasts such as C(2)C(12) myoblasts in the presence of the ActRIIB
  polypeptides or test compounds (e.g., Thomas et al., J Biol Chem. 2000, 275:40235-43).
                                                   37

           The present invention also contemplates in vivo assays to measure muscle mass and
  strength. For example, Whittemore et al. (Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2003, 300:965-71)
  discloses a method of measuring increased skeletal muscle mass and increased grip strength in
  mice. Optionally, this method can be used to determine therapeutic effects of test compounds
  (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) on muscle diseases or conditions, for example those diseases for
  which muscle mass is limiting.
           In certain aspects, the present invention provides methods and agents for modulating
  (stimulating or inhibiting) bone formation and increasing bone mass. Therefore, any compound
  identified can be tested in whole cells or tissues, in vitro or in vivo, to confirm their ability to
  modulate bone or cartilage growth. Various methods known in the art can be utilized for this
  purpose.
           For example, the effect of the ActRLIB polypeptides or test compounds on bone or
  cartilage growth can be determined by measuring induction of Msx2 or differentiation of
  osteoprogenitor cells into osteoblasts in cell based assays (see, e.g., Daluiski et al., Nat Genet.
  2001, 27(1):84-8; Hino et al., Front Biosci. 2004, 9:1520-9). Another example of cell-based
  assays includes analyzing the osteogenic activity of the subject ActRIIB polypeptides and test
  compounds in mesenchymal progenitor and osteoblastic cells. To illustrate, recombinant
  adenoviruses expressing an ActRIIB polypeptide were constructed to infect pluripotent
  mesenchymal progenitor C3H1OT1/2 cells, preosteoblastic C2C12 cells, and osteoblastic TE-85
  cells. Osteogenic activity is then determined by measuring the induction of alkaline
  phosphatase, osteocalcin, and matrix mineralization (see, e.g., Cheng et al., J bone Joint Surg
  Am. 2003, 85-A(8):1544-52).
           The present invention also contemplates in vivo assays to measure bone or cartilage
  growth. For example, Nankung-Matthai et al., Bone, 28:80-86 (2001) discloses a rat
5 osteoporotic model in which bone repair during the early period after fracture is studied. Kubo
  et al., Steroid Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, 68:197-202 (1999) also discloses a rat
  osteoporotic model in which bone repair during the late period after fracture is studied. These
  references are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for their disclosure of rat model
  for study on osteoporotic bone fracture. In certain aspects, the present invention makes use of
0 fracture healing assays that are known in the art. These assays include fracture technique,
  histological analysis, and biomechanical analysis, which are described in, for example, U.S. Pat.
  No. 6,521,750, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for its disclosure of
                                                  38

    experimental protocols for causing as well as measuring the extent of fractures, and the repair
    process.
             In certain aspects, the present invention provides methods and agents for controlling
    weight gain and obesity. At the cellular level, adipocyte proliferation and differentiation is
    critical in the development ofobesity, which leads to the generation of additional fat cells
    (adipocytes). Therefore, any compound identified can be tested in whole cells or tissues, in vitro
   -or in vivo, to confirm their ability to modulate adipogenesis by measuring adipocyte
    proliferation or differentiation. Various methods known in the art can be utilized for this
    purpose. For example, the effect of an ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g., a soluble ActRUB
 )  polypeptide) or test compounds on adipogenesis can be determined by measuring differentiation
    of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes to mature adipocytes in cell based assays, such as, by observing the
    accumulation of triacylglycerol in Oil Red 0 staining vesicles and by the appearance of certain
    adipocyte markers such as FABP (aP2/422) and PPARy2. See, for example, Reusch et al., 2000,
    Mol Cell Biol. 20:1008-20; Deng et al., 2000, Endocrinology. 141:2370-6; Bell et al., 2000,
    Obes Res. 8:249-54. Another example of cell-based assays includes analyzing the role of
    ActRIIB polypeptides and test compounds in proliferation of adipocytes or adipocyte precursor
    cells (e.g., 3T3-LI cells), such as, by monitoring bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells. See,
    for example, Pico et al., 1998, Mol Cell Biochem. 189:1-7; Masuno et al., 2003, Toxicol Sci.
    75:314-20.
 )           It is understood that the screening assays of the present invention apply to not only the
    subject ActRIIB polypeptides and variants of the ActRIIB polypeptides, but also any test
    compounds including agonists and antagonist of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Further, these
    screening assays are useful for drug target verification and quality control purposes.
5   6.       Exemplary Therapeutic Uses
             In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) of the present
    invention can be used for treating or preventing a disease or condition that is associated with
    abnormal activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide and/or an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., GDF8). These
    diseases, disorders or conditions are generally referred to herein as "ActRIB-associated
0   conditions." In certain embodiments, the present invention provides methods of treating or
    preventing an individual in need thereof through administering to the individual a
    therapeutically effective amount of an ActRI]B polypeptide as described above. These methods
                                                    39

     are particularly aimed at therapeutic and prophylactic treatments of animals, and more
     particularly, humans.
             As used herein, a therapeutic that "prevents" a disorder or condition refers to a
     compound that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or condition in the
 5   treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or reduces the severity
     of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the untreated control sample.
     The term "treating" as used herein includes prophylaxis of the named condition or amelioration
     or elimination of the condition once it has been established.
             ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand complexes play essential roles in tissue growth as well as early
 )   developmental processes such as the correct formation of various structures or in one or more
     post-developmental capacities including sexual development, pituitary hormone production, and
     creation of bone and cartilage. Thus, ActRIIB-associated conditions include abnormal tissue
     growth and developmental defects. In addition, ActRIIB-associated conditions include, but are
     not limited to, disorders of cell growth and differentiation such as inflammation, allergy,
 5   autoimmune diseases, infectious diseases, and tumors.
             Exemplary ActRIIB-associated conditions include neuromuscular disorders (e.g.,
     muscular dystrophy and muscle atrophy), congestive obstructive pulmonary disease (and muscle
     wasting associated with COPD), muscle wasting syndrome, sarcopenia, cachexia, adipose tissue
     disorders (e.g., obesity), type 2 diabetes, and bone degenerative disease (e.g., osteoporosis).
   - Other exemplary ActRILB-associated conditions include musculodegenerative and
     neuromuscular disorders, tissue repair (e.g., wound healing), neurodegenerative diseases (e.g.,
     amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), immunologic disorders (e.g., disorders related to abnormal
     proliferation or function of lymphocytes), and obesity or disorders related to abnormal
     proliferation of adipocytes.
5            In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., soluble ActRIIB polypeptides) of the
     invention are used as part of a treatment for a muscular dystrophy. The term "muscular
     dystrophy" refers to a group of degenerative muscle diseases characterized by gradual
     weakening and deterioration of skeletal muscles and sometimes the heart and respiratory
     muscles. Muscular dystrophies are genetic disorders characterized by progressive muscle
0    wasting and weakness that begin with microscopic changes in the muscle. As muscles
     degenerate over time, the person's muscle strength declines. Exemplary muscular dystrophies
 -   that can be treated with a regimen including the subject ActRIIB polypeptides include:
                                                    40

    Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD), Becker Muscular Dystrophy (BMD), Emery-Dreifuss
    Muscular Dystrophy (EDMD), Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy (LGMD),
   Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy (FSH or FSHD) (also known as Landouzy-Dejerine),
   Myotonic Dystrophy (MMD) (also known as Steinert's Disease), Oculopharyngeal Muscular
 5 Dystrophy (OPMD), Distal Muscular Dystrophy (DD), Congenital Muscular Dystrophy (CMD).
           Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) was first described by the French neurologist
    Guillaume Benjamin Amand Duchenne in the 1860s. Becker Muscular Dystrophy (BMD) is
   named after the German doctor Peter Emil Becker, who first described this variant of DMD in
   the 1950s. DMD is one of the most frequent inherited diseases in males, affecting one in 3,500
 ) boys. DMD occurs when the dystrophin gene, located on the short arm of the X chromosome, is
   broken. Since males only carry one copy of the X chromosome, they only have one copy of the
   dystrophin gene. Without the dystrophin protein, muscle is easily damaged during cycles of
   contraction and relaxation. While early in the disease muscle compensates by regeneration, later
   on muscle progenitor cells cannot keep up with the ongoing damage and healthy muscle is
 S replaced by non-functional fibro-fatty tissue.
           BMD results from different mutations in the dystrophin gene. BM1 patients have some
   dystrophin, but it is either insufficient in quantity or poor in quality. Having some dystrophin
   protects the muscles of those with BMD from degenerating as badly or as quickly as those of
   people with DMD.
 )         For example, recent researches demonstrate that blocking or eliminating function of
   GDF8 (an ActRIIB ligand) in vivo can effectively treat at least certain symptoms in DMD and
   BMD patients. Thus, the subject ActRIIB polypeptides may act as GDF8 inhibitors
   (antagonists), and constitute an alternative means of blocking the functions of GDF8 and/or
   ActRIIB in vivo in DMD and BMD patients. This approach is confirmed and supported by the
5  data shown herein, whereby an ActRJIB-Fc protein was shown to increase muscle mass in a
   mouse model of muscular dystrophy.
           Similarly, the subject ActRIIB polypeptides provide an effective means to increase
   muscle mass in other disease conditions that are in need of muscle growth. For example, ALS,
   also called Lou Gehrig's disease (motor neuron disease) is a chronic, incurable, and unstoppable
0  CNS disorder that attacks the motor neurons, components of the CNS that connect the brain to
   the skeletal muscles. In ALS, the motor neurons deteriorate and eventually die, and though a
   person's brain normally remains fully functioning and alert, the command to move never reaches
                                                   41

   the muscles. Most people who get ALS are between 40 and 70 years old. The first motor
   neurons that weaken are those leading to the arms or legs. Those with ALS may have trouble
   walking, they may drop things, fall, slur their speech, and laugh or cry uncontrollably.
   Eventually the muscles in the limbs begin to atrophy from disuse. This muscle weakness will
 5 become debilitating and a person will need a wheel chair or become unable to function out of
   bed. Most ALS patients die from respiratory failure or from complications of ventilator
   assistance like pneumonia, 3-5 years from disease onset. This approach is confirmed and
   supported by the data shown herein, whereby an ActRHB-Fc protein was shown to improve the
   appearance, muscle mass and lifespan of a mouse model of ALS.
 )         ActRJB polypeptide-induced increased muscle mass might also benefit those suffering
   from muscle wasting diseases. Gonzalez-Cadavid et al. (supra) reported that that GDF8
   expression correlates inversely with fat-free mass in humans and that increased expression of the
   GDF8 gene is associated with weight loss in men with AIDS wasting syndrome. By inhibiting
   the function of GDF8 in AIDS patients, at least certain symptoms of AIDS may be alleviated, if
 5 not completely eliminated, thus significantly improving quality of life in AIDS patients.
           Since loss of GDF8 (an ActRHlB ligand) function is also associated with fat loss without
   diminution of nutrient intake (Zimmers et al., supra; McPheron and Lee, supra), the subject
   ActRIHB polypeptides may further be used as a therapeutic agent for slowing or preventing the
   development of obesity and type H diabetes. This approach is confirmed and supported by the
 ) data shown herein, whereby an ActRHB-Fc protein was shown to improve metabolic status in
   obese mice.
           The cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome is among the most debilitating and life
   threatening aspects of cancer. Progressive weight loss in cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome is
   a common feature of many types of cancer and is responsible not only for a poor quality of life
5  and poor response to chemotherapy, but also a shorter survival time than is found in patients
   with comparable tumors without weight loss. Associated with anorexia, fat and muscle tissue
   wasting, psychological distress, and a lower quality of life, cachexia arises from a complex
   interaction between the cancer and the host. It is one of the most common causes of death
   among cancer patients and is present in 80% at death. It is a complex example of metabolic
0  chaos effecting protein, carbohydrate, and fat metabolism. Tumors produce both direct and
   indirect abnormalities, resulting in anorexia and weight loss. Currently, there is no treatment to
   control or reverse the process. Cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome affects cytokine production,
   release of lipid-mobilizing and proteolysis-inducing factors, and alterations in intermediary
                                                 42

   metabolism. Although anorexia is common, a decreased food intake alone is unable to account
   for the changes in body composition seen in cancer patients, and increasing nutrient intake is
   unable to reverse the wasting syndrome. Cachexia should be suspected in patients with cancer if
   an involuntary weight loss of greater than five percent of premorbid weight occurs within a six
5  month period.
           Since systemic overexpression of GDF8 in adult mice was found to induce profound
   muscle and fat loss analogous to that seen in human cachexia syndromes (Zimmers et al., supra),
   the subject ActRIIB polypeptides as pharmaceutical compositions can be beneficially used to
   prevent, treat, or alleviate the symptoms of the cachexia syndrome, where muscle growth is
D  desired.
           In other embodiments, the present invention provides methods of inducing bone and/or
   cartilage formation, preventing bone loss, increasing bone mineralization or preventing the
   demineralization of bone. For example, the subject ActRIIB polypeptides and compounds
   identified in the present invention have application in treating osteoporosis and the healing of
5  bone fractures and cartilage defects in humans and other animals. ActRIIB polypeptides may be
   useful in patients that are diagnosed with subclinical low bone density, as a protective measure
   against the development of osteoporosis.
           In one specific embodiment, methods and compositions of the present invention may
   find medical utility in the healing of bone fractures and cartilage defects in humans and other
 ) animals. The subject methods and compositions may also have prophylactic use in closed as
   well as open fracture reduction and also in the improved fixation of artificial joints. De novo
   bone formation induced by an osteogenic agent contributes to the repair of congenital, trauma
   induced, or oncologic resection induced craniofacial defects, and also is useful in cosmetic
   plastic surgery. Further, methods and compositions of the invention may be used in the
5  treatment of periodontal disease, and in other tooth repair processes. In certain cases, the subject
   ActRIIB polypeptides may provide an environment to attract bone-forming cells, stimulate
   growth of bone-forming cells or induce differentiation of progenitors of bone-forming cells.
   ActRIIB polypeptides of the invention may also be useful in the treatment of osteoporosis.
   Further, ActRIIB polypeptides may be used in cartilage defect repair and prevention/reversal of
0  osteoarthritis.
           In another specific embodiment, the invention provides a therapeutic method and
   composition for repairing fractures and other conditions related to cartilage and/or bone defects
                                                  43

  or periodontal diseases. The invention further provides therapeutic methods and compositions
  for wound healing and tissue repair. The types of wounds include, but are not limited to, burns,
  incisions and ulcers. See e.g., PCT Publication No. WO84/01106. Such compositions comprise
  a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the ActRIIB polypeptides of the invention in
5 admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, carrier or matrix.
           In another specific embodiment, methods and compositions of the invention can be
  applied to conditions causing bone loss such as osteoporosis, hyperparathyroidism, Cushing's
  disease, thyrotoxicosis, chronic diarrheal state or malabsorption, renal tubular acidosis, or
  anorexia nervosa. Many people know that being female, having a low body weight, and leading
3 a sedentary lifestyle are risk factors for osteoporosis (loss of bone mineral density, leading to
  fracture risk). However, osteoporosis can also result from the long-term use of certain
  medications. Osteoporosis resulting from drugs or another medical condition is known as
  secondary osteoporosis. In a condition known as Cushing's disease, the excess amount of
  cortisol produced by the body results in osteoporosis and fractures. The most common
5 medications associated with secondary osteoporosis are the corticosteroids, a class of drugs that
  act like cortisol, a hormone produced naturally by the adrenal glands. Although adequate levels
  of thyroid hormones (which are produced by the thyroid gland) are needed for the development
  of the skeleton, excess thyroid hormone can decrease bone mass over time. Antacids that
  contain aluminum can lead to bone loss when taken in high doses by people with kidney
) problems, particularly those undergoing dialysis. Other medications that can cause secondary
  osteoporosis include phenytoin (Dilantin) and barbiturates that are used to prevent seizures;
  methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Immunex, Folex PFS), a drug for some forms of arthritis, cancer,
  and immune disorders; cyclosporine (Sandimmune, Neoral), a drug used to treat some
  autoimmune diseases and to suppress the immune system in organ transplant patients;
5 luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonists (Lupron, Zoladex), used to treat prostate cancer
  and endometriosis; heparin (Calciparine, Liquaemin), an anticlotting medication; and
  cholestyramine (Questran) and colestipol (Colestid), used to treat high cholesterol. Gum disease
  causes bone loss because these harmful bacteria in our mouths force our bodies to defend against
  them. The bacteria produce toxins and enzymes under the gum-line, causing a chronic infection.
0          In a further embodiment, the present invention provides methods and therapeutic agents
  for treating diseases or disorders associated with abnormal or unwanted bone growth. For
  example, patients having the disease known as Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP)
  grow an abnormal "second skeleton" that prevents any movement. Additionally, abnormal bone
                                                  44

   growth can occur after hip replacement surgery and thus ruin the surgical outcome. This is a
   more common example of pathological bone growth and a situation in which the subject
   methods and compositions may be therapeutically useful. The same methods and compositions
   may also be useful for treating other forms of abnormal bone growth (e.g., pathological growth
   of bone following trauma, burns or spinal cord injury), and for treating or preventing the
   undesirable conditions associated with the abnormal bone growth seen in connection with
   metastatic prostate cancer or osteosarcoma. Examples of these therapeutic agents include, but
   are not limited to, ActRIIB polypeptides that antagonize function of an ActRHB ligand (e.g.,
   BMP7), compounds that disrupt interaction between an ActRIIB and its ligand (e.g., BMP7),
 ) and antibodies that specifically bind to an ActRIIB receptor such that an ActRIIB ligand (e.g.,
   BMP7) cannot bind to the ActRIIB receptor.
           In other embodiments, the present invention provides compositions and methods for
   regulating body fat content in an animal and for treating or preventing conditions related thereto,
   and particularly, health-compromising conditions related thereto. According to the present
   invention, to regulate (control) body weight can refer to reducing or increasing body weight,
   reducing or increasing the rate of weight gain, or increasing or reducing the rate of weight loss,
   and also includes actively maintaining, or not significantly changing body weight (e.g., against
   external or internal influences which may otherwise increase or decrease body weight). One
   embodiment of the present invention relates to regulating body weight by administering to an
 ) animal (e.g., a human) in need thereof an ActRIIB polypeptide.
            In one specific embodiment, the present invention relates to methods and compounds for
   reducing body weight and/or reducing weight gain in an animal, and more particularly, for
   treating or ameliorating obesity in patients at risk for or suffering from obesity. In another
   specific embodiment, the present invention is directed to methods and compounds for treating an
5  animal that is unable to gain or retain weight (e.g., an animal with a wasting syndrome). Such
   methods are effective to increase body weight and/or mass, or to reduce weight and/or mass loss,
   or to improve conditions associated with or caused by undesirably low (e.g., unhealthy) body
   weight and/or mass.
           Other disorders, including high cholesterol, that may be treated with ActRIIB proteins
0  are described in the Examples.
   7.      Pharmaceutical Compositions
                                                  45

            In certain embodiments, compounds (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) of the present
   invention are formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For example, an ActRIIB
   polypeptide can be administered alone or as a component of a pharmaceutical formulation
   (therapeutic composition). The subject compounds may be formulated for administration in any
   convenient way for use in human or veterinary medicine.
            In certain embodiments, the therapeutic method of the invention includes administering
   the composition topically, systemically, or locally as an implant or device. When administered,
   the therapeutic composition for use in this invention is, of course, in a pyrogen-free,
   physiologically acceptable form. Further, the composition may desirably be encapsulated or
 J injected in a viscous form for delivery to a target tissue site (e.g., bone, cartilage, muscle, fat or
   neurons), for example, a site having a tissue damage. Topical administration may be suitable for
   wound healing and tissue repair. Therapeutically useful agents other than the ActRIIB
   polypeptides which may also optionally be included in the composition as described above, may
   alternatively or additionally, be administered simultaneously or sequentially with the subject
   compounds (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) in the methods of the invention.
            In certain embodiments, compositions of the present invention may include a matrix
   capable of delivering one or more therapeutic compounds (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) to a
   target tissue site, providing a structure for the developing tissue and optimally capable of being
   resorbed into the body. For example, the matrix may provide slow release of the ActRIIB
 ) polypeptides. Such matrices may be formed of materials presently in use for other implanted
   medical applications.
            The choice of matrix material is based on biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical
   properties, cosmetic appearance and interface properties. The particular application of the
   subject compositions will define the appropriate formulation. Potential matrices for the
5  compositions may be biodegradable and chemically defined calcium sulfate,
   tricalciumphosphate, hydroxyapatite, polylactic acid and polyanhydrides. Other potential
   materials are biodegradable and biologically well defined, such as bone or dermal collagen.
   Further matrices are comprised of pure proteins or extracellular matrix components. Other
   potential matrices are non-biodegradable and chemically defined, such as sintered
0  hydroxyapatite, bioglass, aluminates, or other ceramics. Matrices may be comprised of
   combinations of any of the above mentioned types of material, such as polylactic acid and
   hydroxyapatite or collagen and tricalciumphosphate. The bioceramics may be altered in
                                                   46

   composition, such as in calcium-aluminate-phosphate and processing to alter pore size, particle
   size, particle shape, and biodegradability.
            In certain embodiments, methods of the invention can be administered for orally, e.g., in
   the form of capsules, cachets, pills, tablets, lozenges (using a flavored basis, usually sucrose and
 5 acacia or tragacanth), powders, granules, or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non
   aqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as an elixir or syrup, or
   as pastilles (using an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and acacia) and/or as
   mouth washes and the like, each containing a predetermined amount of an agent as an active
   ingredient. An agent may also be administered as a bolus, electuary or paste.
 )          In solid dosage forms for oral administration (capsules, tablets, pills, dragees, powders,
   granules, and the like), one or more therapeutic compounds of the present invention may be
   mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate or
   dicalcium phosphate, and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches,
   lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example,
 5 carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, and/or acacia; (3)
   humectants, such as glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate,
   potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate; (5) solution
   retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium
   compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as, for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate;
 ) (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such a talc, calcium stearate,
   magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and mixtures thereof; and
   (10) coloring agents. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the pharmaceutical compositions
   may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed
   as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugars,
5  as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.
            Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
   emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the active
   ingredient, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art, such as
   water or other solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers, such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl
0  alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3
   butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor, and sesame
   oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan,
   and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also include adjuvants
                                                   47

   such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening, flavoring, coloring,
   perfuming, and preservative agents.
           Suspensions, in addition to the active compounds, may contain suspending agents such
   as ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol, and sorbitan esters,
 5 microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and tragacanth, and
   mixtures thereof.
           Certain compositions disclosed herein may be administered topically, either to skin or to
   mucosal membranes. The topical formulations may further include one or more of the wide
   variety of agents known to be effective as skin or stratum corneum penetration enhancers.
 ) Examples of these are 2-pyrrolidone, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, dimethylacetamide,
   dimethylformamide, propylene glycol, methyl or isopropyl alcohol, dimethyl sulfoxide, and
   zone.    Additional agents may further be included to make the formulation cosmetically
   acceptable. Examples of these are fats, waxes, oils, dyes, fragrances, preservatives, stabilizers,
   and surface active agents. Keratolytic agents such as those known in the art may also be
 5 included. Examples are salicylic acid and sulfur.
           Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration include powders, sprays,
   ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, solutions, patches, and inhalants. The active compound
   may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and with any
   preservatives, buffers, or propellants which may be required. The ointments, pastes, creams and
 ) gels may contain, in addition to a subject compound of the invention (e.g., an ActRIIB
   polypeptide), excipients, such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes, paraffins, starch,
   tragacanth, cellulose derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites, silicic acid, talc and
   zinc oxide, or mixtures thereof.
           Powders and sprays can contain, in addition to a subject compound, excipients such as
5  lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates, and polyamide powder, or
   mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants, such as
   chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such as butane and propane.
           In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral
   administration may comprise one or more ActRIIB polypeptides in combination with one or
0  more pharmaceutically acceptable sterile isotonic aqueous or nonaqueous solutions, dispersions,
   suspensions or emulsions, or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into sterile injectable
   solutions or dispersions just prior to use, which may contain antioxidants, buffers, bacteriostats,
                                                  48

  solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient or
  suspending or thickening agents. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which
  may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include water, ethanol,
  polyols (such as glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable
  mixtures thereof, vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters, such as ethyl
  oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of coating materials, such as
  lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the
  use of surfactants.
           The compositions of the invention may also contain adjuvants, such as preservatives,
  wetting agents, emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of
  microorganisms may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents,
  for example, paraben, chlorobutanol, phenol sorbic acid, and the like. It may also be desirable to
  include isotonic agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like into the compositions. In
  addition, prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may be brought about by
  the inclusion of agents which delay absorption, such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
           It is understood that the dosage regimen will be determined by the attending physician
  considering various factors which modify the action of the subject compounds of the invention
  (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides). The various factors will depend upon the disease to be treated. In
  the case of muscle disorders, factors may include, but are not limited to, amount of muscle mass
  desired to be formed, the muscles most affected by disease, the condition of the deteriorated
  muscle, the patient's age, sex, and diet, time of administration, and other clinical factors. The
  addition of other known growth factors to the final composition, may also affect the dosage.
  Progress can be monitored by periodic assessment of muscle growth and/or repair, for example,
  by strength testing, MRI assessment of muscle size and analysis of muscle biopsies.
5          In certain embodiments of the invention, one or more ActRIIB polypeptides can be
  administered, together (simultaneously) or at different times (sequentially or overlapping). In
  addition, ActRIIB polypeptides can be administered with another type of therapeutic agents, for
  example, a cartilage-inducing agent, a bone-inducing agent, a muscle-inducing agent, a fat
  reducing, or a neuron-inducing agent. The two types of compounds may be administered
0 simultaneously or at different times. It is expected that the ActRIIB polypeptides of the
  invention may act in concert with or perhaps synergistically with another therapeutic agent.
                                                 49

            In a specific example, a variety of osteogenic, cartilage-inducing and bone-inducing
    factors have been described, particularly bisphosphonates. See e.g., European Patent
   Application Nos. 148,155 and 169,016. For example, other factors that can be combined with
   the subject ActRIIB polypeptides include various growth factors such as epidermal growth
 5  factor (EGF), platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factors (TGF-a and
   TGF-fl), and insulin-like growth factor (IGF).
            In certain embodiments, the present invention also provides gene therapy for the in vivo
   production of ActRI[B polypeptides. Such therapy would achieve its therapeutic effect by
    introduction of the ActRIIB polynucleotide sequences into cells or tissues having the disorders
 ) as listed above. Delivery of ActRIIB polynucleotide sequences can be achieved using a
   recombinant expression vector such as a chimeric virus or a colloidal dispersion system.
   Preferred for therapeutic delivery of ActRIIB polynucleotide sequences is the use of targeted
    liposomes.
            Various viral vectors which can be utilized for gene therapy as taught herein include
 i adenovirus, herpes virus, vaccinia, or, preferably, an RNA virus such as a retrovirus. Preferably,
   the retroviral vector is a derivative of a murine or avian retrovirus. Examples of retroviral
   vectors in which a single foreign gene can be inserted include, but are not limited to: Moloney
   murine leukemia virus (MoMuLV), Harvey murine sarcoma virus (HaMuSV), murine mammary
   tumor virus (MuMTV), and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV). A number of additional retroviral
   vectors can incorporate multiple genes. All of these vectors can transfer or incorporate a gene
   for a selectable marker so that transduced cells can be identified and generated. Retroviral
   vectors can be made target-specific by attaching, for example, a sugar, a glycolipid, or a protein.
   Preferred targeting is accomplished by using an antibody. Those of skill in the art will recognize
   that specific polynucleotide sequences can be inserted into the retroviral genome or attached to a
5  viral envelope to allow target specific delivery of the retroviral vector containing the ActRIIB
   polynucleotide. In one preferred embodiment, the vector is targeted to bone, cartilage, muscle or
   neuron cells/tissues.
            Alternatively, tissue culture cells can be directly transfected with plasmids encoding the
   retroviral structural genes gag, pol and env, by conventional calcium phosphate transfection.
0  These cells are then transfected with the vector plasmid containing the genes of interest. The
   resulting cells release the retroviral vector into the culture medium.
                                                    50

            Another targeted delivery system for ActRIIB polynucleotides is a colloidal dispersion
   system. Colloidal dispersion systems include macromolecule complexes, nanocapsules,
   microspheres, beads, and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water emulsions, micelles, mixed
   micelles, and liposomes. The preferred colloidal system of this invention is a liposome.
   Liposomes are artificial membrane vesicles which are useful as delivery vehicles in vitro and in
   vivo. RNA, DNA and intact virions can be encapsulated within the aqueous interior and be
   delivered to cells in a biologically active form (see e.g., Fraley, et al., Trends Biochem. Sci.,
   6:77, 1981). Methods for efficient gene transfer using a liposome vehicle, are known in the art,
   see e.g., Mannino, et al., Biotechniques, 6:682, 1988. The composition of the liposome is
 ) usually a combination of phospholipids, usually in combination with steroids, especially
   cholesterol. Other phospholipids or other lipids may also be used. The physical characteristics
   of liposomes depend on pH, ionic strength, and the presence of divalent cations.
            Examples of lipids useful in liposome production include phosphatidyl compounds, such
   as phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylethanolamine,
   sphingolipids, cerebrosides, and gangliosides. Illustrative phospholipids include egg
   phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, and distearoylphosphatidylcholine. The
   targeting of liposomes is also possible based on, for example, organ-specificity, cell-specificity,
   and organelle-specificity and is known in the art.
 ) EXEMPLIFICATION
            The invention now being generally described, it will be more readily understood by
   reference to the following examples, which are included merely for purposes of illustration of
   certain embodiments and embodiments of the present invention, and are not intended to limit the
   invention.
5  Example 1. Generation of an ActRIb-Fc fusion protein.
            Applicants constructed a soluble ActRIIb fusion protein that has the extracellular domain
   of human ActRlIb fused to a human or mouse Fe domain with a minimal linker (three glycine
   amino acids) in between. The constructs are referred to as ActRIlb-hFc and ActRIlb-mFc,
   respectively.
0           ActRIfb-hFc is shown below as purified from CHO cell lines (SEQ U) NO: 5)
                                                  51

   GRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVKKGC
   WLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPTG
   GGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYV
   DGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHI)QDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPVPIEKTIS
   KAKGOPREPOVYTLPPSREEMTKNOVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGOPENNYKTTPP
   VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTOKSLSLSPGK
            The ActRlb-hFc and ActRUb-mFc proteins were expressed in CHO cell lines. Three
   different leader sequences were considered:
   (i) Honey bee mellitin (HBML): MKFLVNVALVFMVVYISYIYA (SEQ ID NO: 7)
 ) (ii) Tissue Plasminogen Activator (TPA): MDAMKRGLCCVLLLCGAVFVSP (SEQ ID NO: 8)
   (iii) Native: MGAAAKLAFAVFLISCSSGA (SEQ ID NO: 9).
            The selected form employs the TPA leader and has the following unprocessed amino
   acid sequence:
   MDAMKRGLCCVLLLCGAVFVSPGASGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEG
 5 EQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVKKGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNF
   CNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMIS
   RTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQ
   DWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPVPIEKTISKAKGQPREPOVYTLPPSREEMTKNOVSLTCLVK
   GFYPSDIAVEWESNGOPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVM
 ) HEALHNHYTOKSLSLSPGK
            This polypeptide is encoded by the following nucleic acid sequence (SEQ ID NO: 10):
              A TGGATGCAAT GAAGAGAGGG CTCTGCTGTG TGCTGCTGCT GTGTGGAGCA GTCTTCGTTT
              CGCCCGGCGC CTCTGGGCGT GGGGAGGCTG AGACACGGGA GTOCATCTAC TACAACGCCA
              ACTGGGAGCT GGAGCGCACC AACCAGAGCG GCCTGGAGCG CTGCGAAGGC GAGCAGGACA
5             AGCGGCTGCA CTGCTACGCC TCCTGGCGCA ACAGCTCTGG CACCATCGAG CTCGTGAAGA
              AGGGCTGCTG GCTAGATGAC TTCAACTGCT ACGATAGGCA GGAGTGTGTG GCCACTGAGG
              AGAACCCCCA GGTGTACTTC TGCTGCTGTG AAGGCAACTT CTGCAACGAG CGCTTCACTC
              ATTTGCCAGA GGCTGGGGGC CCGGAAGTCA CGTACGAGCC ACCCCCGACA GCCCCCACCG
              GTGGTGGAAC TCACACATGC CCACCGTGCC CAGCACCTGA ACTCCTGGGG GGACCGTCAG
0             TCTTCCTCTT CCCCCCAAAA CCCAAGGACA CCCTCATGAT CTCCCGGACC CCTGAGGTCA
              CATGCGTGGT GGTGGACGTG AGCCACGAAG ACCCTGAGGT CAAGTTCAAC TGGTACGTGG
              ACGGCGTGGA GGTGCATAAT GCCAAGACAA AGCCGCGGGA GGAGCAGTAC AACAGCACGT
              ACCGTGTGGT CAGCGTCCTC ACCGTCCTGC ACCAGGACTG GCTGAATGGC AAGGAGTACA
              AGTGCAAGGT CTCCAACAAA GCCCTCCCAG TCCCCATCGA GAAAACCATC TCCAAAGCCA
5             AAGGGCAGCC CCGAGAACCA CAGGTGTACA CCCTGCCCCC ATCCCGGGAG GAGATGACCA
              AGAACCAGGT CAGCCTGACC TGCCTGGTCA AAGGCTTCTA TCCCAGCGAC ATCGCCGTGG
              AGTGGGAGAG CAATGGGCAG CCGGAGAACA ACTACAAGAC CACGCCTCCC GTOCTGGACT
              CCGACGGCTC CTTCTTCCTC TATAGCAAGC TCACCGTGGA CAAGAGCAGG TGGCAGCAGG
                                                 52

             GGAACGTCTT CTCATGCTCC GTGATGCATG AGGCTCTGCA CAACCACTAC ACGCAGAAGA
             GCCTCTCCCT GTCTCCGGGT AAATGA
          N-terminal sequencing of the CHO-cell produced material revealed a major sequence of
  -GRGEAE (SEQ ID NO: 11). Notably, other constructs reported in the literature begin with an
  -SGR... sequence.
          Purification could be achieved by a series of column chromatography steps, including,
  for example, three or more of the following, in any order: protein A chromatography,   Q
  sepharose chromatography, phenylsepharose chromatography, size exclusion chromatography,
  and cation exchange chromatography. The purification could be completed with viral filtration
  and buffer exchange.
          ActRIIb-Fc fusion proteins were also expressed in HEK293 cells and COS cells.
  Although material from all cell lines and reasonable culture conditions provided protein with
  muscle-building activity in vivo, variability in potency was observed perhaps relating to cell line
  selection and/or culture conditions.
  Example 2: Generation of ActRIb-Fc Mutants
          Applicants generated a series of mutations in the extracellular domain of ActRUB and
  produced these mutant proteins as soluble fusion proteins between extracellular ActRUB and an
  Fec domain. The background ActRIIB-Fc fusion has the sequence (Fc portion underlined)(SEQ
  ID NO:12):
  SGRGEAETREClYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIBLVKKG
  CWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPT
  GGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWY
5 VDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPVPIEKTI
  SKAKGOPREPOVYTLPPSREEMTKNOVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGOPENNYKTTP
  PVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTOKSLSLSPGK
          Various mutations, including N- and C-terminal truncations, were introduced into the
  background ActRIIB-Fc protein. Based on the data presented in Example 1, it is expected that
0 these constructs, if expressed with a TPA leader, will lack the N-terminal serine. Mutations
  were generated in ActRHB extracellular domain by PCR mutagenesis. After PCR, fragments
  were purified through a Qiagen column, digested with SfoI and AgeI and gel purified. These
  fragments were ligated into expression vector paid (see W02006/012627) such that upon
                                                 53

  ligation it created fusion chimera with human IgG1. Upon transformation into E. coli DHS
  alpha, colonies were picked and DNAs were isolated. For murine constructs (mFc), a murine
  IgG2a was substituted for the human IgG1. All mutants were sequence verified.
           All of the mutants were produced in HEK293T cells by transient transfection. In
  summary, in a 500ml spinner, HEK293T cells were set up at 6x10 5 cells/ml in Freestyle
  (Invitrogen) media in 250ml volume and grown overnight. Next day, these cells were treated
  with DNA:PEI (1:1) complex at 0.5 ug/ml final DNA concentration. After 4 hrs, 250 ml media
  was added and cells were grown for 7 days. Conditioned media was harvested by spinning
  down the cells and concentrated.
          Mutants were purified using a variety of techniques, including, for example, protein A
  column and eluted with low pH (3.0) glycine buffer. After neutralization, these were dialyzed
  against PBS.
          Mutants were also produced in CHO cells by similar methodology.
          Mutants were tested in binding assays and/or bioassays described below. In some
  instances, assays were performed with conditioned medium rather than purified proteins.
  Example 2. Bioassay for GDF-1 1 and Activin-mediated signaling.
          An A-204 Reporter Gene Assay was used to evaluate the effects of ActRIlB-Fc proteins
  on signaling by GDF- II and Activin A. Cell line: Human Rhabdomyosarcoma (derived from
  muscle). Reporter vector: pGL3(CAGA)12 (Described in Dennler et at, 1998, EMBO 17: 3091
  3100.) See Figure 5. The CAGA12 motif is present in TGF-Beta responsive genes ( PAI-1
  gene), so this vector is of general use for factors signaling through Smad2 and 3.
          Day 1: Split A-204 cells into 48-well plate.
          Day 2: A-204 cells transfected with 10 ug pGL3(CAGA)12 or pGL3(CAGA)12(l0 ug)+
5 pRLCMV (1 ug) and Fugene.
          Day 3: Add factors (diluted into medium+ 0.1 % BSA). Inhibitors need to be
  preincubated with Factors for 1 hr before adding to cells. 6 hrs later, cells rinsed with PBS, and
  lyse cells.
                                                 54

           This is followed by a Luciferase assay. In the absence of any inhibitors, Activin A
  showed 10 fold stimulation of reporter gene expression and an ED50 - 2 ng/ml. GDF-11: 16
  fold stimulation, ED50:~ 1.5 ng/ml.
           ActRIIB(R64, 20-134) is a potent inhibitor of activin, GDF-8 and GDF-Il activity in this
5 assay. Variants were tested in this assay as well.
  Example 3. GDF-11 Inhibition of N-terminal and C-terminal Truncations
           Truncations at the N-terminus and C-teninus of the ActRIIB portion ActRIIB-Fc (R64,
  20-134) were generated and tested for activity as inhibitors of GDF-1 1 and activin. The
) activities are shown below (as measured in conditioned media):
  C-terminal ActRIlb-hFc Truncations:
                                           C50 (ng/mL)
                                         GDF-I1       Activin
  ActRIIb-hFc (R64, 20-134)              45           22
  ActRIb-hFc (R64,20-132)                87           32
  ActRIlb-hFc (R64, 20-13 1)              120         44
  ActRtb-hFc (R64,20-128)                 130         158
           As can be seen, truncations of three (ending with ... PPT), six (ending with ...YEP) or
  more amino acids at the C-terminus causes a threefold or greater decrease in the activity of the
5 molecule. The truncation of the final 15 amino acids of the ActRII portion causes a greater
  loss of activity (see W02006/012627).
           Amino terminal truncations were made in the background of an ActRIb-hFc (R64 20
  131) protein. The activities are shown below (as measured in conditioned media):
  N-terminal ActRIb-hFec Truncations:
                                           C50 (ng/mL)
                                             DF-11        etivin
  ActRIb-hFe (R64, 20-131)               183              01
                                                 55

  (GRG...)
   ActR1lb-hFc (R64, 21-131)                121         325
  (RGE...)
   ActRIlb-hFc (R64, 22-13 1)                1          100
  (GEA...)
   ActRTlb-hFc (R64, 23-131)               60           43
  (EAE...)
  ActRIlb-hFc (R64, 24-131)                69           105
  (AET...)
          Accordingly, truncations of two, three or four amino acids from the N-terminus lead to
  the production of a more active protein than the versions with a full-length extracellular domain.
  Additional experiments show that a truncation of five amino acids, ActRIIb-hFc (R64, 25-13 1)
5 has activity equivalent to the untruncated form, and additional deletions at the N-terminus
  continue to degrade the activity of the protein. Therefore, optimal constructs will have a C
  terminus ending between amino acid 133-134 of SEQ ID NO:4 and an N-terminus beginning at
  amino acids 22-24 of SEQ ID NO:4. An N-terminus corresponding to amino acids 21 or 25 will
  give activity that is similar to the ActRUb-hFc (R64, 20-134) construct.
)
  Example 4. ActRIIb-Fc Variants, Cell-based Activity.
          Activity of ActRIIB-Fc proteins was tested in a cell based assay, as described above.
  Results are summarized in Table 1, below. Some variants were tested in different C-terminal
  truncation constructs. As discussed above, truncations of five or fifteen amino acids caused
5 reduction in activity. Remarkably, the L79D and L79E variants showed substantial loss of
  activin binding while retaining almost wild-type inhibition of GDF-11.
  Soluble ActRIIB-Fe binding to GDF11 and Activin A:
         ActRIIB-Fc             Portion of ActRIB       GDF1 I Inhibition        Activin Inhibition
         Variations           (corresponds to amino          Activity                 Activity
                                  acids of SEQ ID
                                       NO:4)
             64R                       20-134                  +++++
                                                       (approx. 1O' M K[)       (approx. 10-" M K)
             64A                       20-134                    +                       +
                                                       (approx. 10 6 M Ki)      (approx. 10-6 M Ki)
             64R                       20-129                  +++-++
         64R K74A                      20-134                 +++
                                                 56

           64R A24N                    20-134                   +++                     +++.
           64R A24N                    20-119                    ++                      ++
      64R A24N K74A                    20-119                     +                      +
           R64 L79P                    20-134                     +                      +
       R64 L79P K74A                   20-134                     +                      +
           R64 L79D                    20-134                   +++                      +
           R64 L79E                    20-134                   +++                      +
             R64K                      20-134                   +++                     +++
             R64K                      20-129                   +++                     +++
      R64 P129S P130A                  20-134                   +++                     +++
             R64N                      20-134                     +                      +
       +      Poor activity (roughly 1x10-6 K)
       ++ Moderate activity (roughly lxi0 7 K)
       ++-+ Good (wild-type) activity (roughly 1x 10's K)
       ++++ Greater than wild-type activity
       Several variants have been assessed for serum half-life in rats. ActRIIB(R64 20-134)-Fe has
  a serum half-life of approximately 70 hours. ActRIB(R64 A24N 20-134)-Fc has a serum half
  life of approximately 100-150 hours. The A24N variant has activity in the cell-based assay
  (above) and in vivo assays (below) that are equivalent to the wild-type molecule. Coupled with
  the longer half-life, this means that over time an A24N variant will give greater effect per unit of
  protein than the wild-type molecule.
       Remarkably, the introduction of acidic amino acids (aspartic or glutamic acid) at position 79
  selectively decreased activin binding while retaining GDFI 1/GDF8 binding. As discussed
  below, wild-type ActRIIB-Fc proteins appear to have effects on tissues other than the muscle,
  some of which may be undesirable. As disclosed herein, these effects are expected to relate to
  the various different ligands that are bound and inhibited by ActRIIB-Fc, including, perhaps,
  activin. Initial data indicate that, in mice, the L79E and L79D variants have reduced effects on
0 tissues other than muscle while retaining their effects on muscle. Although variations of this
  type may be viewed as variants of ActRIIB, it should be noted that these proteins no longer truly
  function as activin receptors, and thus the moniker "ActRIIB" is appropriate only as an indicator
  of the derivation of these polypeptides. Although acidic residues at position 79 decrease activin
  binding while retaining GDF 11 binding, other alterations at this position do not have this effect.
5 An L79A change increases activin binding relative to GDF1 1 binding. An L79P change
  decreases both activin and GDF 11 binding.
  Example 5. GDF-t1 and Activin A Binding.
                                                   57

        Binding of certain ActRIIB-Fc proteins to ligands was tested in a BiaCorerm assay.
       The ActRIIB-Fc variants or wild-type protein were captured onto the system using an
anti-hFc antibody. Ligands were injected and flowed over the captured receptor proteins.
Results are summarized in tables, below.
Ligand binding specificity IIB variants.
                                 GDF1I
Protein                          Kon (1/Ms)           Koff (1/s)K(M)
ActRIIB-hFc   (R64 20-134)         1.34e-6            1. 13e-4           8.42e-11
ActRIIB-hFc   (R64, A24N 20-       1.21e-6            6.35e-5            5.19e-11
134)
ActRUB-hFc    (R64, L79D 20-     6.7e-5               4.39e-4            6.55e-10
134)
ActRIB-hFc    (R64, L79E 20-     3.8e-5               2.74e-4            7.16e-10
134)
ActRIIB-hFc   (R64K 20-134)      6.77e-5              2.41e-5            3.56e-11
                                 GDF8
Protein                          Kon (1/Ms)           Koff (1/s)         KD (M)
ActRIIB-hFc (R64 20-134)          3.69e-5             3.45e-5            9.35e-1 1
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, A24N 20
134)                             _   _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, L79D 20-        3.85e-5             8.3e-4             2.15e-9
134)
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, L79E 20-        3.74e-5             9e-4               2.41e-9
134)
ActRIIB-hFc R64K 20-134          2.25e-5              4.71e-5            2.le-10
ActRIIB-hFc (R64K 20-129)        9.74e-4              2.09e-4            2.15e-9
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, P129S,           1.08e-5            1.8e-4             1.67e-9
P130R 20-134)
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, K74A 20-       2.8e-5               2.03e-5            7.18e-11
134)
                                 ActivinA
Protein                          Kon (1/Ms)           Koff (1/s)         KD (M)
ActRIIB-hFc (R64 20-134)         5.94e6               1.59e-4            2.68e-1I
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, A24N 20-       3.34e6               3.46e-4            1.04e-10
134)
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, L79D 20-                                               Low binding
134)_
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, L79E 20-                                               Low binding
134)
ActRIIB-hFec (R64K 20-134)       6.82e6               3.25e-4            4.76e-I1
ActRIIB-hFc (R64K 20-129)        7.46e6               6.28e-4            8.41e-1 I
ActRIIB-hFc (R64, P129S,         5.02e6               4.17e-4            8.31e-11
P130R 20-134)                                       1
                                             58

          These data confirm the cell based assay data, demonstrating that the A24N variant retains
  ligand-binding activity that is similar to that of the ActRIlb-hFc (R64 20-134) molecule, and that
  the L79D or L79E molecule retains myostatin and GDF 11 binding but shows markedly
  decreased (non-quantifiable) binding to Activin A.
          Other variants have been generated and tested, as reported in W02006/012627, using
  ligands coupled to the device and flowing receptor over the coupled ligands. A table of data
  with respect to these variants is reproduced below:
  Soluble ActRIIB-Fc variants binding to GDF 11 and Activin A (BiaCore assay)
             ActRIIB                            ActA                     GDF11
                  WT (64A)                  KD=1.8e-7M                KD= 2.6e-7M
                                                 (+)                       (+)
                  WT (64R)                        na                  KD= 8.6e-8M
                                 _ __ _ _ _   _      _  _                (-HA-)
                    +15tail                 KD -2.6 e-SM              KD= 1.9e-8M
                     _(+++)(++-++)
                  E37A                            *                         *
                  R40A                             -
                  D54A                                                      *
                  K55A                           ++                         *
                  R56A                            *                         *
                  K74A                     KD=4.35e-9 M               KD=5.3e-9M
                  K74Y                            *
                  K74F                            *
                  K741                            *
                  W78A                            *                         *
                  L79A                            +                         *
                  D80K                            *                         *
                  D80R                            *                         *
                  D80A                            *                         *
                  D80F                            *                         *
                  D80G                            *                         *
                  D80M                            *                         *
                  D80N                            *                         *
                  D801                            *
                  F82A                           ++
      *  No observed binding
      -- <1/5 WT binding
5     - ~1/2 WT binding
      +      WT
                                                    59

     ++ <2x increased binding
     +++ -5x increased binding
     +++-1 Ox increased binding
     ++             40x increased binding
Example 6: The Effect of ActRIIB-Fc Proteins on Muscle Mass in Wild-Type Mice.
           Applicants determined the ability of the ActRIIB-Fc protein to increase muscle mass in
wild-type mice.
           C57B110 mice were dosed (10mg/kg; intraperitoneal (i.p.)) twice/week with either the
human ActRIIB (R64 20-134) protein or the human ActRUB (K74A 20-134). Mice were NMR
scanned at day 0 and day 28 to determine the percent change of whole body lean tissue mass.
Human ActRiB (R64 20-134)-Fe treated mice exhibited a significant 31.1% increase in lean
tissue when compared to the vehicle control group. Mice treated with the human ActRIIB
(K74A 20-134)-Fc protein exhibited a significant increase in lean tissue mass increase compared
to the control cohort, albeit to a lesser extent than the human ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-treated
group. In a similar study, mice were treated twice/week for with PBS, 1 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, or 10
mg/kg murine ActRIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc, intraperitoneally. At the end of the study, femoris,
gastrocnemius, pectoralis and diaphragm muscles were dissected and weighed. The results are
summarized in Table 3, below.
Table 3: Tissue weights from vehicle- and murine ActRUB (WT, 20-134)-Fc-treated wild-type
mice
                             Gastrocnermius       Femoris              Pectoralis
    Vehicle-treated                                                                 Diaphragm
                                  (L+R)            (L+R)                 (L+R)
 Average (grams)* Std.       0.306k 0.020      0.187* 0.040          0.257* 0.020  0.076 * 0.020
        deviation
  muActRHB(Wr, 20-           Gastrocnenius        Femoris              Pectoralis
                           mu~ct~lli                    WlT~Diaphragm
   134)-Fc (1Omug)               (L+R)             (L+R)                 (L+R)
 Average (grans) SW.         0.387 + 0.010     0.241 * 0.014         0.360 + 0.070 0.124 0.040
        deviation
      Ttest p-value             0.0001             0.009                  0.02         0.04
                                                 60

  As shown in Table 3, the murine ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc fusion protein significantly
  increases muscle mass in wild-type mice. In the murine ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc treated mice,
  gastrocnemius muscles were increased 26.5%, femoris muscles increased 28.9%, pectoralis
  muscles were increased 40.0%. We also observed changes in the diaphragm muscle which was
  increased by 63% compared to the vehicle-treated control mice. The diminution of the
  diaphragm muscle is a common complication in variety of muscular dystrophies. Therefore the
  increase in diaphragm weight seen after murine ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc treatment could be of
  clinical importance.
  Example 7: The Effect of Long Half-life ActRIIB-Fe Proteins on Muscle Mass in Wild
  Type Mice.
           Applicants determined the ability of the long half-life variant of ActRIB-mFc (R64,
  A24N 20-134) protein to increase muscle mass in wild-type mice.
           C57B110 mice were dosed (10mg/kg; intraperitoneal (i.p.)) twice/week with either the
  human ActRIIB-mFc (R64 20-134) protein or the human ActRIIB-mFc (R64, A24N 20-134).
  Mice were NMR scanned at various points up to day 25 to determine the percent change of
  whole body lean tissue mass. Both molecules caused equivalent increases in total body weight
  and muscle masses, with the effects on the gastrocnemius, femoris and pectoral muscles ranging
  from a 40-70% increase. See Figures 5 and 6.
           These data demonstrate that the increased half-life form of the molecule promotes
  muscle growth in a short term study with an equivalent potency to the wild-type molecule.
  Example 8: The Effect of ActRIIB-Fe Proteins with Reduced Activin Binding on Muscle
  Mass in Wild-Type Mice.
5          Applicants determined the ability of the long half-life variant of ActRIIB-mFc (R64,
  L79D 20-134) protein to increase muscle mass in wild-type mice.
           C57B110 mice were dosed (10mg/kg; intraperitoneal (i.p.)) twice/week with either the
  human ActRIIB-mFc (R64 20-134) protein or the human ActRIIB-mFc (R64, L79D 20-134).
  Mice were NMR scanned at various points up to day 24 to determine the percent change of
0 whole body lean tissue mass. Data are shown in the table below.
                                                 61

                      Body                Body          Gastrocs        Femoris            Pecs
                      Weight             Weight           (L+R)          (L+R)            (L+R)
                            0(g)
                              WDay      day 24 (g)
   Mod.TBS            24.4    1.51     26.8+1.43       0.29  0.02      0.17+0.02       0.24+0.05
   (w/v)
   R64, 20-134        25.0    1.36    31.2*    1.53   0.40* 0.02     0.24*+ 0.02     0.37* i 0.07
   (                          1m.3)
   R64, L79D,
   20-134             25.3  t 1.22     28.1 i 1.64    0.32*  0.02    0.20* i 0.02     0.27   0.05
   (I10mg/kg)
                                                                                          p
                                                                                        * <0.05
           These data demonstrate that the L79D variant (reduced Activin A binding) of ActRIIB is
   active in vivo for promoting muscle growth, however, the amount of muscle growth is less than
   that for wild type ActRIIB. This decreased effect may be caused in part by the slight reduction
   in myostatin binding or by loss of binding to an additional, as yet unknown negative regulator of
   muscle growth. The ability to stimulate muscle growth without affecting Activin A signaling is
   highly desirable because activin is a widely expressed regulatory molecule known to have
   effects on the reproductive system, bone, liver and many other tissues. In mice, ActRIIB-mFc
   (R64 20-134) causes substantial effects on the reproductive system and, in some instances,
 ) causes an increase in spleen size. The ActRIIB-mFc (R64, L79D 20-134) molecule had greatly
   attenuated effects on both reproductive tissues and the spleen, indicating that this molecule will
   be particularly suitable for promoting muscle growth in patients that are reproductively active or
   have the desire to minimize effects on the reproductive system.
   Example 9: The Effect of ActRIIB-Fc Protein on Muscle Mass and Strength in Mdx Mice.
           In order to determine the ability of the murine ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc protein to
   increase muscle mass in a disease condition, applicants determined the ability of the ActRIIB-Fc
   protein to increase muscle mass in the mdx mouse model of muscular dystrophy.
           Adult Mdx mice were treated twice/week with the murine ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc
0  protein (1, 3, or 10mg/kg; intraperitoneal) or a PBS vehicle control. The force a mouse exerts
   when pulling a force transducer is measured to determine forelimb grip strength. The average
   force of 5 pulling trials was used for the comparison of grip strength between the cohorts. At the
   end of the study, femoris, gastrocnemius, pectoralis and diaphragm muscles were dissected and
   weighed. Grip strength measurements showed a significant increase also. The muscle mass
5  results are summarized in the table, below.
                                                   62

   Tissue weights from vehicle- and murine ActRKB (WT, 20-134)-Fe -treated mdx mice
                              Gastrocnemius            Femoris        Pectoralis
        Vehicle-treated                                                                 Diaphragm
                                   (L+R)                (L+R)           (L+R)
     Average (gms) Std.        0.413  0,040        0.296 i 0.019   0.437 10.060      0.111 1 0.030
            deviation
     muActRHB(WV, 20-         Gastroonernius           Femoris        Pectoralis
       134)-Fc (I0mg*              (L+R)                (L+R)           (L+R)
     Average(ns)t      Sd.     0.52  0.050          0.39   0.05     0.807b 0.21      0.149   0.020
            deviation
          Test p-value            0.0006                0.0006          0.002              0.05
              As illustrated in the table, the marine ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fe -treated groups
   exhibited increased lean tissue mass in the mdx mice compared to the PBS-treated mice.
   ActRIIB-Fc treatment increased gastrocnemius size 25.9%, femoris size 31.8%, and pectoralis
 5 muscles by 85.4% compared to the vehicle control group. Of possible clinical importance, we
   also found that the diaphragm weights of the mouse ActRJIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc -treated mice
   were increased 34.2% compared to the control cohort. These data demonstrate the efficacy of
   the ActRIIB-Fc protein in a muscular dystrophy disease condition.
              Additionally mdx mice treated with the ActRIIB-Fc protein exhibit increased grip
 ) strength compared to the vehicle-treated controls. At 16-weeks, the 1, 3 and 10mg/kg ActRlIB
   groups demonstrated a 31.4%, 32.3% and 64.4% increase in grip strength, respectively,
   compared to the vehicle control group. The improved grip strength performance of the murine
   ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc treated groups supports the idea that the increased muscle found in
   the treatment groups is physiologically relevant. Mdx mice are susceptible to contractile
5  induced injury and undergo significantly more cycles of degeneration and regeneration than their
   wild-type counterparts. Despite these muscle phenotypes, murine ActRIIB (WT, 20-134)-Fc
   treatment increases grip strength in the mdx mice.
              In Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy, disease onset occurs early in childhood, often as
   early as age five. Accordingly, the data presented above with respect to adult mice do not
0  necessarily reflect the effects an ActRIIB molecule would have in children with DMD. To
   address this, a study was conducted with juvenile mdx mice.
              ActRIIB-mFc (R64, 20-134) treatment significantly increases body weight in juvenile
   (four week old) C57BUI 0 and mdx mice. Body composition analysis using in vivo NMR
   spectroscopy revealed increased lean tissue mass accompanied the higher body weights.
                                                      63

  ActRIIB-mFc (R64, 20-134) treated C57BU1O mice gained 35.2% lean tissue mass and the
  treated mdx group gained 48.3% more lean tissue mass than their respective control cohorts.
  Further, the effect of ActRIB-mFc (R64, 20-134) treatment on strength was assessed. Vehicle
  treated mdx mice grip strength scores were 15.7% lower than the vehicle C57BL/10 cohort
  thereby illustrating the muscle weakness associated with dystrophin deficiency. In contrast, the
  ActRIIB-mFc (R64, 20-134) treated mdx mice improved their grip strength compared to the
  mdx vehicle group, and attained grip strength measurements which surpassed C57BL10 vehicle
  mice and reached the level of the treated C57BL/10 grip strength scores (vehicle mdx: 0.140 b
  0.01 KgF; treated mdx: 0.199 L 0.02 KgF; vehicle C57BL10: 0.166  0.03; 0.205  0.02 KgF).
  Remarkably, the treatment restored the juvenile mdx mice back to wild type levels of grip
  strength. Therefore, the ActRIIB-mFc (R64, 20-134) molecule is likely to have important
  clinical applications in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, particularly in juvenile patients at an age
  close to the onset of the disease.
  Example 7: The Effect of ActRIIB-Fc Protein on Strength and Survival in SODI Mice.
          To determine the ability of ActRIIB polypeptides to increase strength and survival in a
  mouse model of ALS, applicants tested the ActRIIB-Fc protein in the SOD I mouse.
          B6.Cg-Tg(SODI-G93A)lGur/J, or SOD1, mice carry high copy numbers of the mutant
  allele of the human superoxide dismutase transgene. High levels of this protein convey a
  phenotype to the mice that is comparable to the human disease ALS. SODi mice develop
  ascending paralysis and exhibit early signs of the disease by 91 days. The disease results in
  premature death occurring between 19-23 weeks of age.
          SOD1 mice were dosed with a vehicle control or ActRIIB-mFc (K74A 20-134) (i.p.,
  5mg/kg, twice/week) beginning at 10 weeks of age. The force a mouse exerts when pulling a
5 force transducer is a measure of forelimb grip strength. The average force of 5 pulling trials was
  used for the comparison of grip strength between the cohorts. Survival was calculated as the
  number of days between the date the mouse was born and the date the mouse was unable to right
  themselves within 30 seconds of being placed on its side. Figure 7 shows the grip strength
  measurements and figure 8 illustrates the survival data.
0         Mice in the end-stage of disease have difficulty grooming, presumably due to the
  progression of paralysis, and appear unkempt. Cursory observation of the mice revealed that the
  murine ActRUB (K74A 20-134)-Fc treatment group appeared well-groomed even in the end
                                               64

   stages of disease compared to the PBS group. This observation suggests the treated mice are in
   better health and maintaining a higher quality of life than the controls.
           As is seen in figure 7, SODI mice receiving the murine ActRiIB (K74A 20-134)-Fc
   treatment exhibit a significantly greater grip strength compared to the PBS control cohort. This
   is seen at day 117, the early stage of the disease, as well as after the disease has progressed at
   day 149. Figure 8 illustrates that the ActRDB (K74A 20-134)-Fc treated mice survived
   significantly longer than the vehicle controls. This study illustrates the utility of the murine
   ActRIfI (K74A 20-134)-Fc in the mouse model of ALS in improving both strength and survival
   of the mice.
 )         A similar experiment was performed with SOD1        mice, but treatment was delayed until
   the beginning of grossly detectable disease onset (day 130), so as to better mimic the treatment
   of human ALS after onset of significant disease symptoms. At day 130, SODI mice were
   divided into either vehicle (modified TBS) or ActRIB (R64 20-134)-miF (10mg/kg) treated
   groups. Mice were subcutaneously dosed once per week. Mice were NMR scanned at study
   days -1 and 27 (ages 129 and 157 days, respectively). Grip strength measurements were
   performed at study days 0 and 20. At the end of the study, the male control group had lost 4.3%
   of their study day 0 body weight whereas the treated group gained 7.8% of their study day 0
   weights. The female control group lost 1.5% and the treated female cohort gained 15% of their
   study day 0 body weights.
 ) SODI Grip Strength Measurement
                            Day 0             Day 20
   Male Control             0.1490.02        0.0970.020
   Male                     0.1470.02        0.1280.020.b
   ActRlB (R64 20
   134)-miFe
   Female Control           0.1300.02        0.0910.020
   Female                   0.1280.01        0.110.02b
   ActRIIB (R64 20
   134)-mFc
           Days 0 and 20 grip strength measurements in male and female SOD I mice. Superscript
   "a" denotes significantly different compared to the respective day 0 measure (p <0.05).
   Superscript "b"denotes significant difference between the PBS (Group 1) and ActRIIB (R64 20
5  134)-mFc (Group 2) day 20 measurements (p <0.05).
           Mice were NMR scanned to determine changes in body composition attributed to
   treatment. Male control mice lost 6.0% of their lean tissue mass over the course of the study
                                                  65

   (day -1: 18.2 g    1.28; day 27:17.1 g   1.10), Male treated mice gained 9.1% of their study day
   0 lean tissue mass (day -1: 19.17 gt 0.77; day 27: 20.92 g       0.74). Female control mice had a
   0.83% reduction of lean mass from the start of the study (day -1: 13.18 g      0.84; day 27: 13.08 g
    0.71) and Female treated mice had a 10.7% increase in their study day 0 body weight (day -1:
   13.66 g i 0.83; day 27: 15.12 g b 1.21). Both the male and female treated groups gained
   significant amounts of lean tissue compared to their respective PBS control groups (p < 0.001).
   SOD1 Muscle Effects of ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-mFe
                           Gastrocnemius  Femoris (L+R)    Pectoralls
                           (L+R)                           (L+R)
     Male Control          0.18  0.03    0.12  0.03      0.20  0.04
     Male                  0.22  0.04    0.15  0.02      0.30 * 0.04
    ActRIIB (R64 20
     134)-mFe
     Female Control        0.13  0.02    0.089           0.11  0.01
                                          0.016
     Female                0.17  0.03    0.01  0.02      0.15 0.05
     ActRIIB (R64 20
     134)-mFe
 )
           These data indicated that ActRIIB-Fe treatment may be beneficial in the treatment of
   patients that have active ALS, both to improve muscle function and quality of life.
   Example 8: The Effect of an ActRIIB-Fc Protein on the Adiposity and Diabetes in Obese
5  Mice.
           Applicants tested the ActRIIB-mFc proteins in high fat diet (HFD)-fed mice to determine
   the ability of ActRIIB-Fc to reduce adiposity in a mouse model of obesity.
           Type II diabetes is a major complication of obesity and is characterized by insulin
   resistance. Elevated fasting insulin levels are indicative of insulin resistance and provide a
0  means for testing whether an animal is in an insulin resistant state. Applicants determined the
   effect of treatment with murine ActRIIB (R64 K74A 20-134)-Fc in normalizing fasting insulin
   levels in a mouse model of obesity.
                                                  66

            HFD-fed C57B1IJ6 mice were maintained on a diet composed of 35% fat and considered
   to be obese when their body weight was approximately 50% greater than that of age-matched
   mice fed a standard chow diet (4.5% fat). Obese mice were dosed twice/week with either a
   vehicle control or human ActRIIB (R64 K74A 20-134)-Fc (10mg/kg; i.p.). Obese mice were
   NMR scanned to determine body composition at the beginning of dosing and after 3 weeks of
   dosing. The changes in body composition from baseline are summarized in figure 9.
            Mice were fed a HFD and considered obese when their body weights were 50% heavier
   than their standard chow-fed counterparts. HFD-fed mice were dosed with either a vehicle
   control or murine ActRilB (R64 K74A 20-134)-Fc (5 mg/kg twice/week; i.p.) for 35 weeks. At
 ) the end of the study, mice were overnight fasted. At the end of the fast, blood was collected and
   processed for serum. Serum was then used to determine fasting insulin levels for both cohorts.
   The results for the effect of murine ActRIIB (K74A 20-134)-Fc on fasting insulin levels of
   obese mice are summarized in the table, below.
   Fasting insulin levels from vehicle- and marine ActRIIB (K74A 20-134)-Fc -treated mice
                                                   HFD                       HFD
                                                                                       20
                                                                   Murine ActRHB (K74A
                                                   PBS                     134)-mFc
              Average (ng/ml) Std. dev        2.27 1.64               0.78  0.40
                        ttest                     N/A                       0.012
            Figure 9 shows the decreased adiposity of the murine ActRIIB (R64 K74A 20-134)-Fc
   cohort when compared to the vehicle-treated controls. Treated mice were found to have a 25.9%
   decrease in fat mass compared to their baseline levels. Additionally, the treated group increased
   their lean mass by 10.1% above their baseline levels. The percent change in both the adipose
0  tissue and lean tissue mass of the ActRIIB (R64 K74A 20-134)-mFc were significantly greater
   than the percent changes of the PBS-treated group.
           In this model, mice were maintained on a high-fat diet until they were > 50% heavier
   than their chow-fed counterparts. Based on this remarkable increase in body weight and
   adiposity, it stands to reason that this model could correspond to humans who are characterized
5  as morbidly obese. Therefore, the finding that treatment with human ActRIIB (R64 K74A 20
   134)-Fc protein reduces adiposity in obese mice could be clinically relevant to the treatment of
   morbidly obese humans.
                                                  67

           The results summarized in Table 5 suggest that treatment with the murine ActRIIB
   (K74A 20-134)-Fc protein is able to significantly reduce obesity-associated elevated fasting
   serum insulin levels. This finding supports the possible clinical relevance of the use of ActRIHB
   polypeptides in the treatment of Type II diabetes.
           Further experiments were conducted with ActRIIB-mFc (R64 20-134) in the HFD model
   of obesity and diabetes. 30 week old HFD-fed C57BIJ6 mice were divided into 2 groups (PBS
   and 10mg/kg ActRIIB-mFc (R64 20-134)). Mice were weighed and dosed 2X/week
   intraperitoneally for 12 weeks. Mice were assessed by NMR at study days 0 and 94.
           Treated mice lost 1.9% of their study day 0 body weights while the PBS treated mice
 ) gained 6.7% of their starting BW during the study. Treated mice also gained significantly more
   lean tissue than the PBS group (21.1%     t 6.28 versus 3.7% 4.08) during the study. The Treated
   mice also lost significant fat tissue (-34%  10.95) compared to the PBS group (+10.2  10.18).
   Individual muscle weights were also increased in the ActRIIB-mFc (R64 20-134) treated group.
                            Gastroc (L+R            Femoris (L+R            Pecs L+R
   PBS                      0.33 *0.05              0.18 *0.03              0.31 +0.05
   ActRIIB-mFc (R64         0.44 0.08*              0.25 +0.02*             0.44 +0.13*
   20-134)                                                                                  * p < 0.05
           In addition to the beneficial effects on fat and muscle that are associated with ActRIIB
   Fc treatment in these mice, positive effects on serum lipids were observed. Both serum
   cholesterol and triglyceride levels were markedly reduced, suggesting that ActRIIB-Fc fusion
   proteins may be used to reduce the levels of these lipids in patients.
 )
   Example 9: The Effect of ActRIIB-Fe Protein on Muscle Mass in Cachectic Mice.
           Applicants tested the ability of ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-mFec to attenuate muscle loss in a
   mouse model of glucocorticoid-induced muscle wasting.
           Mice were subcutaneously dosed daily for 13 days with either PBS or dexamethasone
5  (2mg/kg) to induce muscle wasting. Over the same 13 days, PBS- and dexamethosone-treated
   groups received vehicle or ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-mFc (10mg/kg; i.p.; twice/week) such that all
   combinations of treatments were represented. Mice were NMR scanned at days 0 and 13 to
   determine changes in lean tissue mass across the groups. NMR results are outlined in Table 6,
   below.
0  Table 6: Lean tissue mass of vehicle- and murine ActRUB (R64 20-134)-Fc -treated mice
                                                  68

                                 Group                    Avg lean day 13-Avg lean day 0
                           (sc:ip treatment)                     (g) * std dev
                             PBS:PBS                               0.83 *0.94
                         Dexameth:PBS                              0.47 0.34a
                      Dexameth:ActRIIB                            2.56 0.3 7 a,b
                          PBS:ActRIIB                              3.63 0.62"
                       ' Significant difference compared to PBS:PBS at p < 0.05
                         bSignificant difference compared to Dexameth:PBS
                                                                                   at
                                                 P < 0 .0 5
           NMR scanning showed a significant 2.5% decrease in lean tissue mass in the
   dexamethasone:PBS group compared to the PBS:PBS cohort. In contrast, the dexamethasone:
   ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-mFc group exhibited a 13.5% increase in lean tissue mass, a significant
   increase when compared to both the PBS:PBS and the dexamethasone:PBS groups. Cachexia is
   an undesirable side effect for a variety of therapeutic treatments, including chronic
   glucocorticoid therapy. Therefore it could be of clinical importance that treatment with a human
   ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-mFc protein can attenuate the muscle wasting associated with cachexia.
 )
   Example 10: The Effect of ActRUB-Fe on Muscle Mass and Obesity in Aged or
   Ovarectomized Mice
           Sarcopenia is a form of muscle loss associated with aging in otherwise healthy humans.
   The disorder is associated with a progressive loss of skeletal muscle mass and impaired strength
5  and mobility. The causes of sarcopenia are poorly understood. In women, menopause
   accelerates muscle loss, much as it does with respect to bone loss. Accordingly, ActRIIB (R64,
   20-134)-mFc was tested in extremely old (two year old) mice and in ovarectomized mice (a
   model of the post-menopausal state.
           8-week old C57BIJ6 female mice were either ovariectomized (OVX) or sham operated
0  then aged out to 16 weeks before the start of the study. At the beginning of the study, sham and
   OVX mice were each divided into treatment and vehicle groups. All groups were weighed and
                                                    69

    dosed weekly with either ActRIIB (R64, 20-134)-mFo or buffer control for 11 weeks. All mice
    had study days 0 and 83 NMR scans to determine body composition.
            At the end of the study, sham PBS mice had lost 4.7% of their original lean mass while
    the sham treated group increased their lean mass by 21% over the course of the study. OVX
    controls lost 12.1% (significantly more than sham vehicle) of their lean mass while treated OVX
    mice gained 12.9% by the end of the study.
            These data indicate that ActRIB-Fc fusion proteins can be used to counteract the muscle
    loss that is common in post-menopausal women.
            To evaluate the effects of ActRIIB-Fc in a naturally senescent population, male C57BL6
 )  mice were aged to 70 weeks before the beginning of treatment. Mice were divided into 2 groups
    (PBS and 10mg/kg ActRIB (R64, 20-134)-mFc. Each group was weighed and dosed 2X/week
    for 10 weeks. Over the course of the study, the treated groups gained significantly more lean
    tissue mass than the PBS group.
    % change lean mass                      PBS              I0mg/kg
    Average (% from baseline)                101.76         117.27
    Std dev                                  3.83          3.91
    P-value to PBS                                         <0.001
    The treated group also had significantly higher individual muscle weights compared to PBS
    mice.
   Muscle weights           Gastoc (L+R)            Femoris (L+R)          Pectoralis (L+R
   PBS                      0.2830.07              0.1560.01             0.2410.07
   ActRIIB (R64, 20-        0.3710.03*             0.1920.021*           0.3300.05*
    134)-mFc                                                                                   *p   0.05
            Muscle integrity in the treated cohort also appeared to be greater than that of the PBS
0  group, as apparently intramuscular fat was reduced and cytoarchitecture improved. (See Figure
    10).
            These data demonstrate that ActRIIB-Fc fusion proteins may be used to treat muscle
   wasting associated with old age in men and women.
5  Example 11: The Effect of ActRIIB-Fc on Muscle Loss Associated with Castration
            Prostate cancer is commonly treated with anti-androgen therapy. Side effects of
   treatment include muscle loss and increased obesity. Castrated mice undergo similar changes,
                                                   70

  making this a good model for the study of the potential for ActRIIB-Fc to be used in this clinical
  setting.
           8 week old male C57BIJ6 mice were castrated or sham operated then allowed to recover
  for 3 weeks before the beginning of the study. Sham and castrated groups were further
  subdivided into PBS and ActRIB (R64, 20-134)-mFc (10mg/kg) groups. Mice were weighed
  and subcutaneously dosed once/week for 12 weeks. Mice were NMR scanned at study days 0
  and 83.
           Over the course of the study, sham PBS mice gained an average of 9.72%  3.67 and
  sham ActRIIB (R64, 20-134)-mFc mice gained 35.79% + 3.1 of study day 0 lean tissue mass.
) Castrate PBS treated mice lost 8.1%      4.22 of their day 0 lean tissue mass while treated castrate
  mice gained 17.77%  3.86. Additionally, castration leads to increased adiposity, but ActRIIB
  (R64, 20-134)-mFc treatment helped to reduce the extent of fat mass gain.
           Gastroc and pectoralis muscles from castrated vehicle mice were smaller than sham PBS
  mice (castrate gastroc: 0.275 + 0.03g, castrate pecs: 0.196+0.06g; sham gastroc: 0.313&0.02g,
  sham pecs: 0.2540.03g). ActRIIB (R64, 20-134)-mFc treatment significantly attenuates this
  castration-induced decrease in muscle weights (castrate gastroc: 0.421 + 0.03g, castrate pecs:
  0.296+0.06g).
  Example 12: Effects of ActRIIB-Fe on Cancer Cachexia
)          Many tumors are associated with loss of appetite and severe muscle loss. Patients
  exhibiting cachexia have a poorer prognosis than non-cachectic patients. The colon cancer cell
  line CT26 induces profound cachexia in mice. ActRIIB(R64 20-134) was tested in this model
  for effects on xenograft-induced cachexia.
           Six groups of mice were used in the experiment, as follows:
  Group      umo     reatment        ose         aradigm
  1                    H            /v            erapuetic
  2                  ctRIIB-Fc     10 mg/kg       erapeutic
  3                  EH             /v            erapuetic
  4                  ctRIIB-Fc     10 mg/kg       erapeutic
  5                  ctRHlB-Fe      0 mg/kg       erapeutic
                                                 71

  16                  ActRIIB-Fc      10 mg/kg     Preventative
   Groups 3-6 received 5 x 10^6 tumor cells subcutaneously. Group 6 began treatment
   immediately with ActRIIB-Fc twice per week. Groups 1-5 began dosing on study day 28 when
   tumors reached a size of 300-500 mm         As shown in Figure 11, ActRIIB-Fc markedly decreased
5  the muscle loss associated with CT26 tumors, both in mice with established tumors and when
   used in a preventative model prior to tumor introduction.
   Example 13: The Effect of ActRUIB-Fc Variants on Muscle Mass in Wild-Type Mice.
            This study showed the effects of the following ActRIIB-related Fe constructs on muscle
3  mass and other tissues in 6 week old C57BIJ6 male mice. Mice were weighed and injected
   intraperitoneally, biweekly with either PBS, or an ActRUB-related Fc constructs (10 mg/kg):
            ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-Fc
            ActRIIB (L79D 20-134)-Fc
            ActRIIB (L79E 20-134)-Fc
5           ActRIIB (A24N 20-134)-Fc
            ActRIIB (R64K 20-134)-Fc
            The mice were NMR scanned at the beginning, the middle and the end of the study. The
   femoris, pectoralis and gastrocnemius muscles and the liver, kidneys, and spleen were weighed
   and saved in fonnalin.
0           An initial analysis of the data indicates that ActRIIB (R64 20-134)-Fc causes the greatest
   increase in muscle mass and lean body mass, while also having the greatest effect on other
   tissues. The L79D and L79E variants increase muscle mass to a lesser degree, while having
   little effect on other tissues. The A24N and R64K constructs have an intermediate effect on
   muscle and other tissues. These data confirm that variants of ActRIIB with diminished activin
5  binding have desirable properties, particularly a selective effect on muscle tissue.
   INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
                                                    72

        All publications and patents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in
their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually
indicated to be incorporated by reference.
         While specific embodiments of the subject matter have been discussed, the above
specification is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations will become apparent to those
skilled in the art upon review of this specification and the claims below. The full scope of the
invention should be determined by reference to the claims, along with their full scope of
equivalents, and the specification, along with such variations.
                                                 73

We Claim:
   1. A variant ActRIIB protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%
           identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and wherein the
          protein comprises at least one N-X-S/T sequence at a position other than an
           endogenous N-X-S/T sequence of ActRIIB, and at a position outside of the ligand
          binding pocket.
  2. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim I, wherein the protein comprises an N at the
          position corresponding to position 24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and an S or T at the position
          corresponding to position 26 of SEQ ID NO:2, and wherein the variant ActRIIB
          protein inhibits signaling by activin, myostatin and/or GDF 11 in a cell-based assay.
  3. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 2, wherein the protein comprises an R or K at the
          position corresponding to position 64 of SEQ ID NO:2.
  4. The variant ActRIIB protein of any one of claim 2, wherein at least one alteration with
          respect to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is a conservative alteration positioned
          within the ligand binding pocket.
  5. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 2, wherein at least one alteration with respect to the
          sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is an alteration at one or more positions selected from the
          group consisting of K74, R40, Q53, K55, F82 and L79.
  6. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 2, wherein the protein comprises an amino acid
          sequence beginning at an amino acid corresponding to any of amino acids 22-25 of
          SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at an amino acid corresponding to any of amino acids 129
          134 of SEQ ID NO:2.
  7. The variant ActRIIB protein of any of claims 1-6 or 121, wherein the protein is a fusion
          protein further comprising a heterologous portion.
  8. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 7, wherein the protein is a homodimer.
  9. The variant of ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 7, wherein the heterologous portion
          comprises a constant region from an IgG heavy chain.
  10. A variant ActRIIB protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%
          identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and wherein the
          protein comprises an acidic amino acid at the position corresponding to position 79
                                               74

         of SEQ ID NO:2, and wherein the variant ActRIIB protein inhibits signaling by
        myostatin and/or GDFl 1 in a cell-based assay.
 11. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 10, wherein the protein comprises at least one N
        X-S/T sequence at a position other than an endogenous N-X-S/T sequence of
        ActRIIB, and at a position outside of the ligand binding pocket.
 12. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 11, wherein the protein comprises an N at the
        position corresponding to position 24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and an S or T at the position
        corresponding to position 26 of SEQ ID NO:2.
 13. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 10, wherein the protein comprises an R or K at the
        position corresponding to position 64 of SEQ ID NO:2.
 14. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 10, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
        the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is a conservative alteration positioned within the
        ligand binding pocket.
 15. The variant ActRIJB protein of claim 10, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
        the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is an alteration at one or more positions selected from
        the group consisting of K74, R40, Q53, K55, and F82.
16. The variant ActRIlB protein of claim 10 or 122, wherein the protein comprises an amino
        acid sequence beginning at an amino acid corresponding to any of amino acids 22-25
        of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at an amino acid corresponding to any of amino acids
         129-134 of SEQ ID NO:2.
17. The variant ActRIIB protein of any of claims 10-16, wherein the protein is a fusion
        protein further comprising a heterologous portion.
18. The variant ActRIlB fusion protein of claim 17, wherein the protein is a hornodimer.
19. The variant of ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 17, wherein the heterologous portion
        comprises a constant region from an IgG heavy chain.
20. A variant ActRIIB protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%
        identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and wherein the
        protein comprises at least one N-X-S/T sequence at a position other than an
        endogenous N-X-S/T sequence of ActRIIB, and at a position outside of the ligand
        binding pocket.
                                          75

 21. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 20, wherein the protein comprises an N at the
         position corresponding to position 24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and an S or T at the position
         corresponding to position 26 of SEQ ID NO:2, and wherein the variant ActRIIB
         protein inhibits signaling by activin, myostatin and/or GDFl 1 in a cell-based assay.
 22. The variant ActRIB protein of claim 21, wherein the protein comprises an R or K at the
         position corresponding to position 64 of SEQ ID NO:2.
 23. The variant ActRIB protein of claim 21, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
         the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is a conservative alteration positioned within the
         ligand binding pocket.
 24. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 21, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
        the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is an alteration at one or more positions selected from
        the group consisting of K74, R40, Q53, K55, F82 and L79.
25. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 21, wherein the protein comprises an amino acid
        sequence beginning at an amino acid corresponding to any of amino acids 22-24 of
        SEQ ID NO:2 at ending at an amino acid corresponding to any of amino 133 or 134
        of SEQ ID NO:2.
26. The variant ActRIIB protein of any of claims 20-25, wherein the protein is a fusion
        protein further comprising a heterologous portion.
27. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 26, wherein the protein is a homodimer.
28. The variant of ActRHB fusion protein of claim 27, wherein the heterologous portion
        comprises a constant region from an IgG heavy chain.
29. An ActRIIB fusion protein comprising a portion derived from the ActRIIB sequence of
        SEQ ID NO:2 and a second polypeptide portion, wherein the portion derived from
        SEQ ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 22-25 of
        SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 129-134 of SEQ ID NO:2, and
        wherein the portion derived from the ActRIIB sequence differs at no more than five
        additional amino acid positions from the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2, and wherein the
        ActRIB protein inhibits signaling by myostatin and/or GDFI11 in a cell-based assay.
30. The ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 29, wherein the protein comprises at least one N-X
        S/T sequence at a position other than an endogenous N-X-S/T sequence of ActRIIB,
        and at a position outside of the ligand binding pocket.
                                             76

 31. The ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 30, wherein the protein comprises an N at the
         position corresponding to position 24 of SEQ ID NO:2 and an S or T at the position
         corresponding to position 26 of SEQ ID NO:2.
 32. The ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 29, wherein the protein comprises an R or K at the
        position corresponding to position 64 of SEQ ID NO:2.
 33. The ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 29, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
        the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is a conservative alteration positioned within the
        ligand binding pocket.
 34. The ActRIlB fusion protein of claim 29, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
        the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is an alteration at one or more positions selected from
        the group consisting of K74, R40, Q53, K55, F82 and L79.
35. The ActRIIB fusion protein of any one of claims 29-34, wherein the second portion is
        heterologous to the portion derived from ActRIIB.
36. The ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 35, wherein the protein is a homodimer.
37. The ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 35, wherein the second portion comprises a
        constant region from an IgG heavy chain.
38. A variant ActRIIB fusion protein comprising a portion derived from the ActRIIB
        sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 and a second polypeptide portion, wherein the portion
        derived from SEQ ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino
        acids 20-29 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID
        NO:2, and wherein the ActRIIB fusion protein has an arginine (R), lysine (K) or
        histidine (H) at position 64 of SEQ ID NO:2 and inhibits signaling by activin,
        myostatin and/or GDF 11 in a cell-based assay.
39. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 38, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
        ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-29 of SEQ
        ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 118-134 of SEQ ID NO:4.
40. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 38, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
        ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-29 of SEQ
        ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 128-134 of SEQ ID NO:2.
                                              77

 41. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 38, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
         ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-24 of SEQ
         ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO:2.
 42. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 38, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
         ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-24 of SEQ
         ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 118-134 of SEQ ID NO:2.
43. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 38, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
         ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 21-25 of SEQ
         ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 128-134 of SEQ [D NO:2.
44. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 38, further comprising one or more
         modifications relative to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 that confer a property
         selected from the group consisting of: (a) a greater inhibition of GDFI I or GDFS
         signaling relative to the inhibition of activin signaling; (b) an increased serum half
         life; and (c) both (a) and (b).
45. A variant ActRIIB fusion protein comprising a portion derived from the ActRIIB
        sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 and a second polypeptide portion, wherein the portion
        derived from SEQ ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino
        acids 20-29 of SEQ ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 109-133 of SEQ ID
        NO:2, and wherein the ActRIIB fusion protein has an arginine (R), lysine ()        or
        histidine (H) at position 64 of SEQ ID NO:2 and inhibits signaling by activin,
        myostatin and/or GDF 1 in a cell-based assay.
46. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 45, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
        ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-29 of SEQ
        ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 118-133 of SEQ ID NO:2.
47. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 45, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
        ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-29 of SEQ
        ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 128-133 of SEQ ID NO:2.
48. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 45, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
        ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-24 of SEQ
        ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 109-133 of SEQ ID NO:2.
                                                  78

49. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 45, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
        ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-24 of SEQ
       ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 118-133 of SEQ ID NO:2.
50. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 45, wherein the portion derived from SEQ
       ID NO:2 corresponds to a sequence beginning at any of amino acids 20-24 of SEQ
       ID NO:2 and ending at any of amino acids 128-133 of SEQ ID NO:2.
51. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 45, further comprising one or more
       modifications relative to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 that confer a property
       selected from the group consisting of: (a) a greater inhibition of GDF 11 or GDF8
       signaling relative to the inhibition of activin signaling; (b) an increased serum half
       life; and (c) both (a) and (b).
52. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of any of claims 38-51, wherein the protein is a
       homodimer.
53. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of any of claims 38-51, wherein the second
       polypeptide portion comprises a constant region from an IgG heavy chain.
54. The variant ActRIIB fusion protein of claim 53 wherein the second polypeptide portion
       is an Fc domain.
55. A variant ActRIIB protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%
       identical but not 100% identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID
       NO: 2, wherein the position corresponding to 64 of SEQ ID NO:2 is a K, and
       wherein the variant ActRIIB protein inhibits signaling by activin, myostatin and/or
       GDF1I1 in a cell-based assay.
56. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 55, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
       the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is positioned outside of the ligand binding pocket.
57. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 55, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
       the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is a conservative alteration positioned within the
       ligand binding pocket.
58. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 55, wherein at least one alteration with respect to
       the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 is an alteration at one or more positions selected from
       the group consisting of K74, R40, Q53, K55, F82 and L79.
                                                   79

 59. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 55, wherein the protein comprises at least one N
         X-S/T sequence at a position other than an endogenous N-X-S/T sequence of SEQ ID
         NO:2, and at a position outside of the ligand binding pocket.
 60. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 55, wherein the protein comprises one or more
        modifications relative to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 that confer a property
        selected from the group consisting of: (a) a greater inhibition of GDFl 1 or GDFS
        signaling relative to the inhibition of activin signaling; (b) an increased serum half
        life; and (c) both (a) and (b).
 61. A phannaceutical preparation comprising the protein of any of claims 1-60.
 62. A method for treating a subject having a disorder associated with muscle loss or
        insufficient muscle growth, comprising administering to the subject an effective
        amount of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61.
63. The method of claim 62, wherein the subject has muscle atrophy.
64. The method of claim 62, wherein the subject has a muscular dystrophy.
65. The method of claim 64, wherein the muscular dystrophy is Duchenne Muscular
        Dystrophy.
66. The method of claim 64, wherein the subject is a juvenile and treatment begins within
        one to five years of the date of diagnosis with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.
67. The method of claim 62, wherein the muscular dystrophy is FSH muscular dystrophy.
68. The method of claim 62, wherein the subject has ALS.
69. The method of claim 68, wherein the subject receives treatment after diagnosis with
        ALS.
70. The method of claim 62, wherein the disorder is cachexia associated with cancer or
        cancer therapy.
71. The method of claim 70, wherein the disorder is muscle loss associated 'vith prostate
        cancer therapy.
72. The method of claim 70, wherein the disorder is muscle loss associated with a tumor.
73. The method of claim 72, wherein the tumor is a colon cancer tumor.
                                                    80

74. A method for treating a subject having a disorder associated with neurodegeneration,
       comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical
       preparation of claim 61.
75. The method of claim 74, wherein the disorder is Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
76. A method for decreasing the body fat content or reducing the rate of increase in body fat
       content in a subject, comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a
       pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61.
77. A method for treating a disorder associated with undesirable body weight gain in a
       subject, comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a
       pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61.
78. The method of claim 77, wherein said disorder is selected from the group consisting of
       obesity, severe or morbid obesity, non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM),
       cardiovascular disease, cancer, hypertension, osteoarthritis, stroke, respiratory
       problems, and gall bladder disease.
79. A method for reducing cholesterol and/or triglycerides, comprising administering to a
       subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61.
80. A method for treating sarcopenia, comprising administering to a subject an effective
       amount of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61.
81. An ActRIIB-Fc protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:5.
82. The ActRIIB-Fc protein of claim 81, wherein the protein has an N at the position
       corresponding to position 5 of SEQ ID NO:5.
83. The ActRIIB-Fc protein of claim 81, wherein the protein has a D or an E at the position
       corresponding to position 60 of SEQ ID NO:5.
84. The ActRIIB-Fc protein of claim 82, wherein the protein has a D or an E at the position
       corresponding to position 60 of SEQ ID NO:~5.
85. The ActRIIB-Fc protein of claim 81, wherein the protein is a dimer.
86. The ActRIIB-Fc protein of claim 82, wherein the protein is a dirner.
87. The ActRIIB-Fc protein of claim 83, wherein the protein is a dimer.
88. The ActRIIB-Fc protein of claim 84, wherein the protein is a dimer.
                                             81

 89. A pharmaceutical preparation comprising the proteins of any of claims 81-88.
 90. A method for treating a subject having a disorder associated with muscle loss or
         insufficient muscle growth, comprising administering to the subject an effective
         amount of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 89.
 91. The method of claim 90, wherein the subject has muscle atrophy.
 92. The method of claim 90, wherein the subject has a muscular dystrophy.
93. The method of claim 92, wherein the muscular dystrophy is Duchenne Muscular
        Dystrophy.
94. The method of claim 93, wherein the subject is a juvenile and treatment begins within
        one to five years of the date of diagnosis with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.
95. The method of claim 92, wherein the muscular dystrophy is FSH muscular dystrophy.
96. The method of claim 90, wherein the subject has ALS.
97. The method of claim 96, wherein the subject receives treatment after diagnosis with
        ALS.
98. The method of claim 90, wherein the disorder is cachexia associated with cancer or
        cancer therapy.
99. The method of claim 98, wherein the disorder is muscle loss associated with prostate
        cancer therapy.
100.    The method of claim 98, wherein the disorder is muscle loss associated with a tumor.
101.    The method of claim 100, wherein the tumor is a colon cancer tumor.
102.    A method for treating a subject having a disorder associated with neurodegeneration,
        comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical
       preparation of claim 89.
103.   The method of claim 102, wherein the disorder is Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
104.   A method for decreasing the body fat content or reducing the rate of increase in body
       fat content in a subject, comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of
       a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 89.
                                                       82

105. A method for treating a disorder associated with undesirable body weight gain in a
     subject, comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a
     phannaceutical preparation of claim 104.
106. The method of claim 105, wherein said disorder is selected from the group consisting
     of obesity, severe or morbid obesity, non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus
     (NIDDM), cardiovascular disease, cancer, hypertension, osteoarthritis, stroke,
     respiratory problems, and gall bladder disease.
107, A method for reducing cholesterol and/or triglycerides, comprising administering to a
     subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 89.
108. A method for treating sarcopenia, comprising administering to a subject an effective
     amount of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 107.
109. Use of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the manufacture of a
     medicament for the treatment of a disorder associated with muscle loss or insufficient
     muscle growth.
110. A pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the use in the treatment of a
     disorder associated with muscle loss or insufficient muscle growth.
111. Use of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the manufacture of a
     medicament for the treatment of a disorder associated with neurodegeneration.
112. A pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the use in the treatment of a
     disorder associated with neurodegeneration.
113. Use of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the manufacture of a
     medicament for decreasing the body fat content or reducing the rate of increase in
     body fat content in a subject.
114. A pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the use in decreasing the body fat
     content or reducing the rate of increase in body fat content in a subject.
115. Use of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the manufacture of a
     medicament for the treatment of a disorder associated with undesirable body weight
     gain in a subject.
116. A pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the use in the treatment of a
     disorder associated with undesirable body weight gain in a subject.
                                          83

117. Use of a phannaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the manufacture of a
     medicament for reducing cholesterol and/or triglycerides.
118. A pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the use in reducing cholesterol
     and/or triglycerides.
119. Use of a pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the manufacture of a
     medicament for the treatment of sarcopenia.
120. A pharmaceutical preparation of claim 61 or 89 for the use in treating sarcopenia.
121. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 6, wherein the variant ActRIIB protein
     comprises an amino acid sequence corresponding to the sequence of amino acids 25
     131 of SEQ ID NO:2.
122. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 10, wherein the acidic amino acid at position
     79 of SEQ ID NO:2 is a D.
123. The variant ActRIIB protein of claim 16, wherein the variant ActRIIB protein
     comprises an amino acid sequence corresponding to the sequence of amino acids 25
     131 of SEQ ID NO:2.
                                           84

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
