ISOLATION AND PURIFICATION OF ANTIBODIES USING PROTEIN A
AFFINITY CHROMATOGRAPHY
ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are methods for the isolation and purification of antibodies wherein the use of
an affinity chromatographic step results in an antibody composition sufficiently pure for
pharmaceutical uses. The methods described herein comprise pH viral reduction/inactivation,
ultrafiltration/diafiltration, affinity chromatography, preferably Protein A affinity, ion exchange
chromatography, and hydrophobic chromatography. Further, the present invention is directed
toward pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more antibodies of the present invention.

      ISOLATION AND PURIFICATION OF ANTIBODIES USING PROTEIN A
                             AFFINITY CHROMATOGRAPHY
 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
                This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial
 No. 61/196,753, filed October 20, 2008, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
 entirety. This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
 <removed-apn> which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015207915,
 which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2009347206, being the
 national phase application of PCT/US2009/061329, the entire contents of each of which
 is incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                 Purification processes for pharmaceutical grade monoclonal antibodies
produced by fermentation culture typically involve four basic steps. These steps
include (1) harvest/clarification - separation of host cells from the fermentation
culture; (2) capture - separation of antibody from the majority of components in the
clarified harvest; (3) fine purification - removal of residual host cell contaminants and
aggregates; and (4) formulation - place the antibody into an appropriate carrier for
maximum stability and shelf life.
                 However, these steps often do not necessarily result in antibody
compositions of sufficient purity for use in pharmaceutical contexts. There is a
present need for methods of producing and purifying an antibody of interest in
sufficiently pure form to be suitable for pharmaceutical use. The present invention
addresses this need.
  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                  The present invention is directed to methods for isolating and purifying
  antibodies from a sample matrix. In certain aspects, the invention is directed to
  methods of antibody purification employing affinity chromatography, preferably
  Protein A chromatography. In specific aspects, the methods herein employ an acid
  inactivation step, an affinity chromatographich step, and one or more additional
  chromatography and/or filtration steps. The chromatography steps can include one or
 more step of ion exchange chromatography and/or hydrophobic interaction
  chromatography. Further, the present invention is directed toward phannaceutical
                                               1

    compositions comprising one or more antibodies purified by a method described
   herein.
                    One embodiment or the present invention is directed toward a method
    of purifying an antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof from a sample matrix such
 5 that the resulting antibody composition is substantially free of host cell proteins
   ("HCPs"). In one aspect, the sample matrix (or simply "sample") comprises a cell
    line harvest wherein the cell line is employed to produce specific antibodies of the
   present invention. In a particular aspect, the sample matrix is prepared from a cell
    line used to produce anti-IL-12 antibodies; in another aspect, the sample matrix is
10 prepared from a cell line used to produce anti-TNFa antibodies; and in another aspect
   the sample matrix is prepared from a cell line used to proudce anti-IL-18 antibodies.
                    One method of the present invention involves subjecting a sample
   matrix comprising the putative antibody of interest or antigen-binding portion thereof
   to a pH adjustment. In one aspect, the pH is adjusted to an acidic pH. An example of
15 a suitable pH is between about a pH of 3 and 5, preferably a pH of about 3.5. This
   primary recovery is performed, in part, to reduce or inactivate pH-sensitive viruses.
   In addition to reducing and/or inactivating viruses, the acidic conditions facilitate the
   removal of cells and cellular debris thus forming a primary recovery sample. After a
   suitable period of time, the pH can be adjusted toward a more neutral or basic pH and
20 the primary recovery sample is subjected to affinity chromatography, preferably
   Protein A chromatography. In one aspect, the affinity chromatography sample is
   collected and further subjected to subsequent chromatographic steps such as ion
   exchange and hydrophobic interactive chromatography.
                    In one embodiment, the affinity chromatography step comprises
25 subjecting the primary recovery sample to a column comprising a suitable affinity
   chromatographic support. Non-limiting examples of such chromatographic supports
   include, but are not limited to Protein A resin, Protein G resin, affinity supports
   comprising the antigen against which the antibody of interest was raised, and affinity
   supports comprising an Fe binding protein. Protein A resin is useful for affinity
30 purification and isolation of antibodies (IgG). In one aspect, a Protein A column is
   equilibrated with a suitable buffer prior to sample loading. An example of a suitable
   buffer is a Tris/NaCl buffer, pH around 7.2. Following this equilibration, the sample
   can be loaded onto the column. Following the loading of the column, the column can
   be washed one or multiple times using, e.g., the equilibrating buffer. Other washes
                                             2

   including washes employing different buffers can be used before eluting the column.
   The Protein A column can then be eluted using an appropriate elution buffer. An
   example of a suitable elution buffer is an acetic acid/NaCl buffer, pH around 3.5. The
   eluate can be monitored using techniques well known to those skilled in the art. For
 5 example, the absorbance at OD 2 8 0 can be followed. The eluated fraction(s) of interest
   can then be prepared for further processing.
                   In one embodiment, an ion exchange step follows Protein A affinity
   chromatography. This ion exchange step can be either cation or anion exchange or a
   combination of both. This step can be a single ion exchange procedure or can include
10 multiple ion exchange steps such as a cation exchange step followed by an anion
   exchange step or visa versa. In one aspect, the ion exchange step is a one step
   procedure. In another aspect, the ion exchange step involves a two step ion exchange
   process. A suitable cation exchange column is a column whose stationary phase
   comprises anionic groups. An example of such a column is a FractogelTM S0       3  . This
15 ion exchange capture chromatography step facilitates the isolation of antibodies from
   a sample. A suitable anion exchange column is a column whose stationary phase
   comprises cationic groups. An example of such a column is a      Q SepharoseTM    column.
   One or more ion exchange step further isolates antibodies by reducing impurities such
   as host cell proteins and DNA and, where applicable, affinity matrix protein. This
20 anion exchange procedure is a flow through mode of chromatography wherein the
   antibodies of interest do not interact or bind to the anion exchange resin (or solid
   phase). However, many impurities do interact with and bind to the anion exchange
   resin. In a particular aspect, the ion exchange step is anion exchange
   chromatography.
25                 The affinity chromatography eluate is prepared for ion exchange by
   adjusting the pH and ionic strength of the sample buffer. For example, the affinity
   eluate can be adjusted to a pH of about 6.0 to about 8.5 in a 1 M Tris buffer. Prior to
   loading the sample (the affinity eluate) onto the ion exchange column, the column can
   be equilibrated using a suitable buffer. An example of a suitable buffer is a Tris/NaCl
30 buffer with a pH of about 6.0 to about 8. Following equilibration, the column can be
   loaded with the affinity eluate. Following loading, the column can be washed one or
   multiple times with a suitable buffer. An example of a suitable buffer is the
   equilibration buffer itself. Flow-through collection can commence, e.g., as the
   absorbance (OD 280 ) rises above about 0.2 AU.
                                              3

                   In certain embodiments, the present method employs a further step.
   This step involves the use of hydrophobic interactive chromatography ("HIC"). A
   suitable column is one whose stationary phase comprises hydrophobic groups. An
   example of such a column is a phenyl SepharoseTM Column. It is possible that the
 5 antibodies of interest have formed aggregates during the isolation/purification
   process. This hydrophobic chromatographic step facilitates the elimination of these
   aggregations. It also assists in the removal of impurities. The procedure uses a high
   salt buffer which promotes interaction of the antibodies (or aggregations thereof) with
   the hydrophobic column. The column is eluted using lower concentrations of salt.
10                 In another embodiment, the HIC eluate is filtered using a viral removal
   filter such as an Ultipor DV20TM filter. This procedure separates viral particles from
   the phenyl eluate to reduce the amount of virus (if present) to safe levels. Filters well
   known to those skilled in the art can be used in this embodiment.
                   The purity of the antibodies of interest in the resultant sample product
15 can be analyzed using methods well known to those skilled in the art, e.g., size
   exclusion chromatography, Poros TM A HPLC Assay, HCP ELISA, Protein A ELISA,
   and western blot analysis.
                   In yet another embodiment, the invention is directed to one or more
   pharmaceutical compositions comprising an isolated antibody or antigen-binding
20 portion thereof and an acceptable carrier. In another aspect, the compositions further
   comprise one or more pharmaceutical agents.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DRAWINGS
                   Figure 1 discloses the heavy and light chain variable region sequences
25 of a non-limiting example of an anti-IL-12 antibody (ABT-847).
                   Figure 2 discloses the heavy and light chain sequences of a non
   limiting example of an anti-IL-18 antibody (ABT-325).
                   Figure 3 discloses the heavy and light chain variable region sequences
   of a non-limiting example of an anti-TNFa antibody (Adalimumab).
30                 Figure 4 depicts a representative chromatogram from a 300 L
   bioreactor showing product purity after MabSelectTM Protein A chromatography was
   used to capture anti-IL-12 antibodies and reduce product and process related
                                             4

   impurities such as single and double light chain fragments, CHO host cell proteins
   (HCPs) and DNA, etc..
                   Figure 5 depicts an evaluation of MabSelectTM wash conditions.
                   Figure 6 is a photograph of a polyacrylamide gel of precipitates
 5 obtained after a MabSelectTM eluate was adjusted to pH 8 and a conductivity of
   7mS/cm.
                   Figure 7 depicts a representative flow-through wash profile of a 300 L
   bioreactor scale Q SepharoseTM    FF chromatography column.
                   Figure 8 depicts a representative elution profile of a 300 L bioreactor
10 scale Phenyl SepharoseTM HP chromatography column.
                   Figure 9 depicts the results of a dynamic binding capacity assay where
   the 10% breakthrough point for MabSelect TM resin is identified to be at 37.4 g
   antibody per L of resin.
                   Figure 10 is a photograph of a polyacrylamide gel conducted to
15 compare the intermediate differences between Protein A process and AY-04 process.
   2 pg of antibody of each sample was loaded.
                   Figure 11 depicts MabSelectTM Adalimumab Recovery Yield vs.
   Elutin pH. The figure demonstrates that a yield of at least 90% was obtained for an
   elution pH range from 2.5 to 3.8 and a significant decrease in yield occurs at pH 4.
20                 Figure 12 depicts the results of an assay comparing the recovery of
   Adalimumab monomer vs. elution pH and incubation time.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                   The present invention is directed to methods for isolating and purifying
25 antibodies from a sample matrix. One aspect of the invention is directed to viral
   reduction/inactivation of samples generated in the various steps of antibody
   purification. In a particular aspect, methods herein employ an acid viral
   reduction/inactivation step followed by one or more chromatography steps. The
   chromatography steps can include one or more of the following chromatographic
30 procedures: ion exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography, and hydrophobic
   interaction chromatography. Further, the present invention is directed toward
   pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more antibodies purified by a method
   described herein.
                                             5

                  For clarity and not by way of limitation, this detailed description is
   divided into the following sub-portions:
                            1.      Definitions;
                           2.       Antibody Generation;
 5                         3.       Antibody Production;
                           4.       Antibody Purification;
                           5.       Methods of Assaying Sample Purity;
                           6.       Further Modifications;
                           7.       Pharmaceutical Compositions; and
10                         8.       Antibody Uses.
                   1.      Definitions
                   In order that the present invention may be more readily understood,
   certain terms are first defined.
15                 The term "antibody" includes an immunoglobulin molecule comprised
   of four polypeptide chains, two heavy (H) chains and two light (L) chains inter
   connected by disulfide bonds. Each heavy chain is comprised of a heavy chain
   variable region (abbreviated herein as HCVR or VH) and a heavy chain constant
   region (CH). The heavy chain constant region is comprised of three domains, CH1,
20 CH2 and CH3. Each light chain is comprised of a light chain variable region
   (abbreviated herein as LCVR or VL) and a light chain constant region. The light
   chain constant region is comprised of one domain, CL. The VH and VL regions can
   be further subdivided into regions of hypervariability, termed complementarity
   determining regions (CDRs), interspersed with regions that are more conserved,
25 termed framework regions (FR). Each VH and VL is composed of three CDRs and
   four FRs, arranged from amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following order:
   FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4.
                   The term "antigen-binding portion" of an antibody (or "antibody
   portion") includes fragments of an antibody that retain the ability to specifically bind
30 to an antigen (e.g., hIL-12, hTNFa, or hIL-18). It has been shown that the antigen
   binding function of an antibody can be performed by fragments of a full-length
   antibody. Examples of binding fragments encompassed within the term "antigen
                                              6

   binding portion" of an antibody include (i) a Fab fragment, a monovalent fragment
   comprising the VL, VH, CL and CHI domains; (ii) a F(ab')2 fragment, a bivalent
   fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge
   region; (iii) a Fd fragment comprising the VH and CHI domains; (iv) a Fv fragment
 5 comprising the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody, (v) a dAb
   fragment (Ward et al., (1989) Nature 341:544-546, the entire teaching of which is
   incorporated herein by reference), which comprises a VH domain; and (vi) an isolated
   complementarity determining region (CDR). Furthermore, although the two domains
   of the Fv fragment, VL and VH, are coded for by separate genes, they can be joined,
10 using recombinant methods, by a synthetic linker that enables them to be made as a
   single protein chain in which the VL and VH regions pair to form monovalent
   molecules (known as single chain Fv (scFv); see, e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science
   242:423-426; and Huston et al. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883, the
   entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference). Such single chain
15 antibodies are also intended to be encompassed within the term "antigen-binding
   portion" of an antibody. Other forms of single chain antibodies, such as diabodies are
   also encompassed. Diabodies are bivalent, bispecific antibodies in which VH and VL
   domains are expressed on a single polypeptide chain, but using a linker that is too
   short to allow for pairing between the two domains on the same chain, thereby forcing
20 the domains to pair with complementary domains of another chain and creating two
   antigen binding sites (see, e.g., Holliger, P., et al. (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
   90:6444-6448; Poljak, R. J., et al. (1994) Structure 2:1121-1123, the entire teachings
   of which are incorporated herein by reference). Still further, an antibody or antigen
   binding portion thereof may be part of a larger immunoadhesion molecule, formed by
25 covalent or non-covalent association of the antibody or antibody portion with one or
   more other proteins or peptides. Examples of such immunoadhesion molecules
   include use of the streptavidin core region to make a tetrameric scFv molecule
   (Kipriyanov, S. M., et al. (1995) Human Antibodies and Hybridomas 6:93-101, the
   entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference) and use of a cysteine
30 residue, a marker peptide and a C-terminal polyhistidine tag to make bivalent and
   biotinylated scFv molecules (Kipriyanov, S. M., et al. (1994) Mol. Immunol. 31:1047
   1058, the entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference). Antibody
   portions, such as Fab and F(ab')2 fragments, can be prepared from whole antibodies
   using conventional techniques, such as papain or pepsin digestion, respectively, of
                                              7

   whole antibodies. Moreover, antibodies, antibody portions and immunoadhesion
   molecules can be obtained using standard recombinant DNA techniques, as described
   herein. In one aspect, the antigen binding portions are complete domains or pairs of
   complete domains.
 5                  The phrase "human interleukin 12" (abbreviated herein as hIL- 12, or
   IL- 12), as used herein, includes a human cytokine that is secreted primarily by
   macrophages and dendritic cells. The term includes a heterodimeric protein
   comprising a 35 kD subunit (p35) and a 40 kD subunit (p40) which are linked
   together with a disulfide bridge. The heterodimeric protein is referred to as a "p70
10 subunit". The structure of human IL-12 is described further in, e.g., Kobayashi, et al.
   (1989) J. Exp Med. 170:827-845; Seder, et al. (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 90:10188
    10192; Ling, et al. (1995) J. Exp Med. 154:116-127; Podlaski, et al. (1992) Arch.
   Biochem. Biophys. 294:230-237, the entire teachings of which are incorporated
   herein by reference. The nucleic acid encoding IL-12 is available as GenBank
15 Accession No. NM_000882 and the polypeptide sequence is available as GenBank
   Accession No. NP_000873.2. The term human IL-12 is intended to include
   recombinant human IL-12 (rh IL-12), which can be prepared by standard recombinant
   expression methods.
                    The phrase "human interleukin 18" (abbreviated herein as hIL- 18, or
20 IL- 18), as used herein, includes a human cytokine that is initially synthesized as
   biologically inactive 193 amino acid precursor protein as well as the 156 amino acid
   mature protein produced by, for example, but not by way of limitation, cleavage of
   the precursor protein, e.g., by caspase- 1 or caspase-4, which exhibits biological
   activities that include the co-stimulation of T cell proliferation, the enhancement of
25 NK cell cytotoxicity, the induction of IFN-7 production by T cells and NK cells, and
   the potentiation of T helper type 1 (Thl) differentiation. The nucleic acid encoding
   IL-18 is available as GenBank Accession No. NM_001562 and the polypeptide
   sequence is available as GenBank Accession No. NP_001553. The term human IL-18
   is intended to include recombinant human IL- 18 (rh IL- 18), which can be prepared by
30 standard recombinant expression methods.
                    The phrase "human Tumor necrosis factor-a " (abbreviated herein as
   hTNFa or TNFa) is a multifunctional pro-inflammatory cytokine secreted
   predominantly by monocytes/macrophages that has effects on lipid metabolism,
                                             8

   coagulation, insulin resistance, and endothelial function. TNFa is a soluble
   homotrimer of 17 kD protein subunits. A membrane-bound 26 kD precursor form of
   TNFa also exists. It is found in synovial cells and macrophages in tissues. Cells
   other than monocytes or macrophages also produce TNFa. For example, human non
 5 monocytic tumor cell lines produce TNFa as well as CD4+ and CD8+ peripheral
   blood T lymphocytes and some cultured T and B cell lines produce TNFa. The
   nucleic acid encoding TNFa is available as GenBank Accession No. X02910 and the
   polypeptide sequence is available as GenBank Accession No. CAA26669. The term
   human TNFa is intended to include recombinant human TNFa (rh TNFa), which can
10 be prepared by standard recombinant expression methods.
                    The terms "Kabat numbering", "Kabat definitions" and "Kabat
   labeling" are used interchangeably herein. These terms, which are recognized in the
   art, refer to a system of numbering amino acid residues which are more variable (i.e.,
   hypervariable) than other amino acid residues in the heavy and light chain variable
15 regions of an antibody, or an antigen binding portion thereof (Kabat et al. (1971) Ann.
   NY Acad, Sci. 190:382-391 and, Kabat, E. A., et al. (1991) Sequences of Proteins of
   Immunological Interest, Fifth Edition, U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242, the entire teachings of which are incorporated
   herein by reference). For the heavy chain variable region, the hypervariable region
20 ranges from amino acid positions 31 to 35 for CDR1, amino acid positions 50 to 65
   for CDR2, and amino acid positions 95 to 102 for CDR3. For the light chain variable
   region, the hypervariable region ranges from amino acid positions 24 to 34 for CDR1,
   amino acid positions 50 to 56 for CDR2, and amino acid positions 89 to 97 for CDR3.
                    The term "human antibody" includes antibodies having variable and
25 constant regions corresponding to human germline immunoglobulin sequences as
   described by Kabat et al. (See Kabat, et al. (1991) Sequences of proteins of
   Immunological Interest, Fifth Edition, U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242). The human antibodies of the invention may
   include amino acid residues not encoded by human germline immunoglobulin
30 sequences (e.g., mutations introduced by random or site-specific mutagenesis in vitro
   or by somatic mutation in vivo), e.g., in the CDRs and in particular CDR3. The
   mutations can be introduced using the "selective mutagenesis approach." The human
   antibody can have at least one position replaced with an amino acid residue, e.g., an
   activity enhancing amino acid residue which is not encoded by the human germline
                                             9

   immunoglobulin sequence. The human antibody can have up to twenty positions
   replaced with amino acid residues which are not part of the human germline
   immunoglobulin sequence. In other embodiments, up to ten, up to five, up to three or
   up to two positions are replaced. In one embodiment, these replacements are within
 5 the CDR regions. However, the term "human antibody", as used herein, is not
   intended to include antibodies in which CDR sequences derived from the germline of
   another mammalian species, such as a mouse, have been grafted onto human
   framework sequences.
                    The phrase "selective mutagenesis approach" includes a method of
10 improving the activity of an antibody by selecting and individually mutating CDR
   amino acids at least one suitable selective mutagenesis position, hypermutation,
   and/or contact position. A "selectively mutated" human antibody is an antibody
   which comprises a mutation at a position selected using a selective mutagenesis
   approach. In another aspect, the selective mutagenesis approach is intended to
15 provide a method of preferentially mutating selected individual amino acid residues in
   the CDRI, CDR2 or CDR3 of the heavy chain variable region (hereinafter HI, H2,
   and H3, respectively), or the CDRi, CDR2 or CDR3 of the light chain variable region
   (hereinafter referred to as Li, L2, and L3, respectively) of an antibody. Amino acid
   residues may be selected from selective mutagenesis positions, contact positions, or
20 hypermutation positions. Individual amino acids are selected based on their position
   in the light or heavy chain variable region. It should be understood that a
   hypermutation position can also be a contact position. In one aspect, the selective
   mutagenesis approach is a "targeted approach". The language "targeted approach" is
   intended to include a method of mutating selected individual amino acid residues in
25 the CDR1, CDR2 or CDR3 of the heavy chain variable region or the CDR1, CDR2 or
    CDR3 of the light chain variable region of an antibody in a targeted manner, e.g., a
    "Group-wise targeted approach" or "CDR-wise targeted approach". In the "Group
   wise targeted approach", individual amino acid residues in particular groups are
   targeted for selective mutations including groups I (including L3 and H3), II
30  (including H2 and Ll) and III (including L2 and Hi), the groups being listed in order
    of preference for targeting. In the "CDR-wise targeted approach", individual amino
    acid residues in particular CDRs are targeted for selective mutations with the order of
   preference for targeting as follows: H3, L3, H2, Ll, H1 and L2. The selected amino
    acid residue is mutated, e.g., to at least two other amino acid residues, and the effect
                                                10

   of the mutation on the activity of the antibody is determined. Activity is measured as
   a change in the binding specificity/affinity of the antibody, and/or neutralization
   potency of the antibody. It should be understood that the selective mutagenesis
   approach can be used for the optimization of any antibody derived from any source
 5 including phage display, transgenic animals with human IgG germline genes, human
   antibodies isolated from human B-cells. The selective mutagenesis approach can be
   used on antibodies which can not be optimized further using phage display
   technology. It should be understood that antibodies from any source including phage
   display, transgenic animals with human IgG germline genes, human antibodies
10 isolated from human B-cells can be subject to back-mutation prior to or after the
   selective mutagenesis approach.
                   The phrase "recombinant human antibody" includes human antibodies
   that are prepared, expressed, created or isolated by recombinant means, such as
   antibodies expressed using a recombinant expression vector transfected into a host
15 cell, antibodies isolated from a recombinant, combinatorial human antibody library,
   antibodies isolated from an animal (e.g., a mouse) that is transgenic for human
   immunoglobulin genes (see, e.g., Taylor, L. D., et al. (1992) Nucl. Acids Res.
   20:6287-6295, the entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference) or
   antibodies prepared, expressed, created or isolated by any other means that involves
20 splicing of human immunoglobulin gene sequences to other DNA sequences. Such
   recombinant human antibodies have variable and constant regions derived from
   human germline immunoglobulin sequences (see, Kabat, E. A., et al. (1991)
   Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, Fifth Edition, U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242). In certain embodiments,
25 however, such recombinant human antibodies are subjected to in vitro mutagenesis
   (or, when an animal transgenic for human Ig sequences is used, in vivo somatic
   mutagenesis) and thus the amino acid sequences of the VH and VL regions of the
   recombinant antibodies are sequences that, while derived from and related to human
   germline VH and VL sequences, may not naturally exist within the human antibody
30 germline repertoire in vivo. In certain embodiments, however, such recombinant
   antibodies are the result of selective mutagenesis approach or back-mutation or both.
                   An "isolated antibody" includes an antibody that is substantially free of
   other antibodies having different antigenic specificities (e.g., an isolated antibody that
   specifically binds hIL- 12 is substantially free of antibodies that specifically bind
                                              11

   antigens other than hIL-12). An isolated antibody that specifically binds hIL-12 may
   bind IL-12 molecules from other species. Moreover, an isolated antibody may be
   substantially free of other cellular material and/or chemicals. Suitable anti-IL-12
   antibodies that may be purified in the context of the instant invention are disclosed in
 5 U.S. Patent No. 6,914,128 (which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety)
   including, but not limited to the anti-IL-12 antibody identified in that patent as J695,
   and which has subsequently been identified as ABT-874. Suitable anti-IL- 18
   antibodies that may be purified and isolated in the context of the instant invention are
   disclosed in USSNs 09/780,035 and 10/988,360, including, the antibody that has
10 subsequently been identified as ABT-325. A suitible anti-TNFU antibody is
   Adalimumab (Abbott Laboratories).
                    A "neutralizing antibody" (or an "antibody that neutralized hIL-12
   activity") includes an antibody whose binding to hIL- 12 results in inhibition of the
   biological activity of hIL-12. This inhibition of the biological activity of hIL-12 can
15 be assessed by measuring one or more indicators of hIL- 12 biological activity, such as
   inhibition of human phytohemagglutinin blast proliferation in a phytohemagglutinin
   blast proliferation assay (PHA), or inhibition of receptor binding in a human IL-12
   receptor binding assay. These indicators of hIL-12 biological activity can be assessed
   by one or more of several standard in vitro or in vivo assays known in the art.
20                  A "neutralizing antibody" (or an "antibody that neutralized hIL- 18
   activity") includes an antibody whose binding to hIL- 18 results in inhibition of the
   biological activity of hIL-18. This inhibition of the biological activity of hIL-18 can
   be assessed by measuring one or more indicators of hIL-18 biological activity, such as
   induction of IFN 7 production by T cells or NK cells, or inhibition of IL- 18 receptor
25 binding in a human IL-18 receptor binding assay. These indicators of hIL-18
   biological activity can be assessed by one or more of several standard in vitro or in
   vivo assays known in the art.
                    The term "activity" includes activities such as the binding
   specificity/affinity of an antibody for an antigen, e.g., an anti-hIL- 12 antibody that
30 binds to an IL- 12 antigen and/or the neutralizing potency of an antibody, e.g., an anti
   hIL-12 antibody whose binding to hIL-12 inhibits the biological activity of hIL-12,
   e.g., inhibition of PHA blast proliferation or inhibition of receptor binding in a human
   IL-12 receptor binding assay. The term "activity" also includes activities such as the
   binding specificity/affinity of an anti-IL- 18 antibody for its antigen, e.g., an anti-hIL
                                             12

   18 antibody that binds to an IL- 18 antigen and/or the neutralizing potency of an
   antibody, e.g., an anti-hIL-18 antibody whose binding to hIL-18 inhibits the
   biological activity of hIL-18. The term "activity" also includes activities such as the
   binding specificity/affinity of an anti-TNFa antibody for its antigen, e.g., an anti
 5 TNFa antibody that binds to a TNFa antigen and/or the neutralizing potency of an
   antibody, e.g., an anti-TNFa antibody whose binding to hTNFa inhibits the biological
   activity of hTNFa.
                   The phrase "surface plasmon resonance" includes an optical
   phenomenon that allows for the analysis of real-time biospecific interactions by
10 detection of alterations in protein concentrations within a biosensor matrix, e.g., using
   the BlAcore system (Pharmacia Biosensor AB, Uppsala, Sweden and Piscataway,
   N.J.). For further descriptions, see Jonsson, U., et al. (1993) Ann. Biol. Clin. 51:19
   26; Jonsson, U., et al. (1991) Biotechniques 11:620-627; Johnsson, B., el al. (1995) J.
   Mol. Recognit. 8:125-13 1; and Johnnson, B., et al. (1991) Anal. Biochem. 198:268
15 277, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein.
                   The term "Koff ", as used herein, is intended to refer to the off rate
   constant for dissociation of an antibody from the antibody/antigen complex.
                   The term "Kd ", as used herein, is intended to refer to the dissociation
   constant of a particular antibody-antigen interaction.
20                 The phrase "nucleic acid molecule" includes DNA molecules and RNA
   molecules. A nucleic acid molecule may be single-stranded or double-stranded, but in
   one aspect is double-stranded DNA.
                   The phrase "isolated nucleic acid molecule," as used herein in
   reference to nucleic acids encoding antibodies or antibody portions (e.g., VH, VL,
25 CDR3), e.g. those that bind hrL-12, hTNFa, or hIL-18, and includes a nucleic acid
   molecule in which the nucleotide sequences encoding the antibody or antibody
   portion are free of other nucleotide sequences encoding antibodies or antibody
   portions that bind antigens other than hIL-12, hTNFa, or hIL-18, which other
   sequences may naturally flank the nucleic acid in human genomic DNA. Thus, e.g,
30 an isolated nucleic acid of the invention encoding a VH region of an anti-IL-12h, anti
   TNFa, or anti-hIL-18 antibody contains no other sequences encoding other VH
   regions that bind antigens other than, for example, IL- 12, hTNFa, or hIL- 18. The
   phrase "isolated nucleic acid molecule" is also intended to include sequences
                                            13

   encoding bivalent, bispecific antibodies, such as diabodies in which VH and VL
   regions contain no other sequences other than the sequences of the diabody.
                   The phrase "recombinant host cell" (or simply "host cell") includes a
   cell into which a recombinant expression vector has been introduced. It should be
 5 understood that such terms are intended to refer not only to the particular subject cell
   but to the progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications may occur in
   succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental influences, such
   progeny may not, in fact, be identical to the parent cell, but are still included within
   the scope of the term "host cell" as used herein.
10                 The term "modifying", as used herein, is intended to refer to changing
   one or more amino acids in the antibodies or antigen-binding portions thereof. The
   change can be produced by adding, substituting or deleting an amino acid at one or
   more positions. The change can be produced using known techniques, such as PCR
   mutagenesis.
15                 The term "about", as used herein, is intended to refer to ranges of
   approximately 10-20% greater than or less than the referenced value. In certain
   circumstances, one of skill in the art will recognize that, due to the nature of the
   referenced value, the term "about" can mean more or less than a 10-20% deviation
   from that value.
20                 The phrase "viral reduction/inactivation", as used herein, is intended to
   refer to a decrease in the number of viral particles in a particular sample
   ("reduction"), as well as a decrease in the activity, for example, but not limited to, the
   infectivity or ability to replicate, of viral particles in a particular sample
   ("inactivation"). Such decreases in the number and/or activity of viral particles can be
25 on the order of about 1% to about 99%, preferably of about 20% to about 99%, more
   preferably of about 30% to about 99%, more preferably of about 40% to about 99%,
   even more preferably of about 50% to about 99%, even more preferably of about 60%
   to about 99%, yet more preferably of about 70% to about 99%, yet more preferably of
   about 80% to 99%, and yet more preferably of about 90% to about 99%. In certain
30 non-limiting embodiments, the amount of virus, if any, in the purified antibody
   product is less than the ID50 (the amount of virus that will infect 50 percent of a
   target population) for that virus, preferably at least 10-fold less than the ID5 0 for that
   virus, more preferably at least 100-fold less than the ID50 for that virus, and still more
   preferably at least 1000-fold less than the ID50 for that virus
                                                14

                   The phrase "contact position" includes an amino acid position in the
   CDR1, CDR2 or CDR3 of the heavy chain variable region or the light chain variable
   region of an antibody which is occupied by an amino acid that contacts antigen in one
   of the twenty-six known antibody-antigen structures. If a CDR amino acid in any of
 5 the twenty-six known solved structures of antibody-antigen complexes contacts the
   antigen, then that amino acid can be considered to occupy a contact position. Contact
   positions have a higher probability of being occupied by an amino acid which contact
   antigens than in a non-contact position. In one aspect, a contact position is a CDR
   position which contains an amino acid that contacts antigen in greater than 3 of the 26
10 structures (>1.5%). In another aspect, a contact position is a CDR position which
   contains an amino acid that contacts antigen in greater than 8 of the 25 structures
   (>32%).
                   2.     Antibody Generation
15                 The term "antibody" as used in this section refers to an intact antibody
   or an antigen binding fragment thereof.
                   The antibodies of the present disclosure can be generated by a variety
   of techniques, including immunization of an animal with the antigen of interest
   followed by conventional monoclonal antibody methodologies e.g., the standard
20 somatic cell hybridization technique of Kohler and Milstein (1975) Nature 256: 495.
   Although somatic cell hybridization procedures are preferred, in principle, other
   techniques for producing monoclonal antibody can be employed e.g., viral or
   oncogenic transformation of B lymphocytes.
                   One preferred animal system for preparing hybridomas is the murine
25 system. Hybridoma production is a very well-established procedure. Immunization
   protocols and techniques for isolation of immunized splenocytes for fusion are known
   in the art. Fusion partners (e.g., murine myeloma cells) and fusion procedures are
    also known.
                   An antibody preferably can be a human, a chimeric, or a humanized
30  antibody. Chimeric or humanized antibodies of the present disclosure can be
   prepared based on the sequence of a non-human monoclonal antibody prepared as
   described above. DNA encoding the heavy and light chain immunoglobulins can be
   obtained from the non-human hybridoma of interest and engineered to contain non
                                            15

   murine (e.g., human) immunoglobulin sequences using standard molecular biology
   techniques. For example, to create a chimeric antibody, murine variable regions can
   be linked to human constant regions using methods known in the art (see e.g., U.S.
   Patent No. 4,816,567 to Cabilly et al.). To create a humanized antibody, murine CDR
 5 regions can be inserted into a human framework using methods known in the art (see
   e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,225,539 to Winter, and U.S. Patent Nos. 5,530,101; 5,585,089;
   5,693,762 and 6,180,370 to Queen et al.).
                    In one non-limiting embodiment, the antibodies of this disclosure are
   human monoclonal antibodies. Such human monoclonal antibodies directed against
10 IL- 12, TNFa, or IL- 18 can be generated using transgenic or transchromosomic mice
   carrying parts of the human immune system rather than the mouse system. These
   transgenic and transchromosomic mice include mice referred to herein as the HuMAb
   Mouse (Medarex, Inc.), KM Mouse® (Medarex, Inc.), and XenoMouse® (Amgen).
                    Moreover, alternative transchromosomic animal systems expressing
15 human immunoglobulin genes are available in the art and can be used to raise
   antibodies of the disclosure, such as anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18 antibodies.
   For example, mice carrying both a human heavy chain transchromosome and a human
   light chain tranchromosome, referred to as "TC mice" can be used; such mice are
   described in Tomizuka et al. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97:722-727.
20 Furthermore, cows carrying human heavy and light chain transchromosomes have
   been described in the art (e.g., Kuroiwa et al. (2002) Nature Biotechnology 20:889
    894 and PCT application No. WO 2002/092812) and can be used to raise anti-IL-12,
    anti-TNFa, or anti-IL18 antibodies of this disclosure.
                     Recombinant human antibodies of the invention, including, but not
25  limited to, anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18 antibodies or an antigen binding
   portion thereof, or anti-IL-12-related, anti-TNFa-related, or anti-IL- 18-related
   antibodies disclosed herein can be isolated by screening of a recombinant
   combinatorial antibody library, e.g., a scFv phage display library, prepared using
   human VL and VH cDNAs prepared from mRNA derived from human lymphocytes.
30 Methodologies for preparing and screening such libraries are known in the art. In
    addition to commercially available kits for generating phage display libraries (e.g., the
   Pharmacia Recombinant Phage Antibody System, catalog no. 27-9400-01; and the
    Stratagene SurfZAPTM phage display kit, catalog no. 240612, the entire teachings of
   which are incorporated herein), examples of methods and reagents particularly
                                             16

   amenable for use in generating and screening antibody display libraries can be found
   in, e.g., Ladner et al. U.S. Patent No. 5,223,409; Kang et al. PCT Publication No. WO
   92/18619; Dower et al. PCT Publication No. WO 91/17271; Winter et al. PCT
   Publication No. WO 92/20791; Markland et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/15679;
 5 Breitling et al. PCT Publication No. WO 93/01288; McCafferty et al. PCT Publication
   No. WO 92/01047; Garrard et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/09690; Fuchs et al.
   (1991) Bio/Technology 9:1370-1372; Hay et al. (1992) Hum Antibod Hybridomas
   3:81-85; Huse et al. (1989) Science 246:1275-1281; McCafferty et al., Nature (1990)
   348:552-554; Griffiths et al. (1993) EMBO J 12:725-734; Hawkins et al. (1992) J Mol
10 Biol 226:889-896; Clackson et al. (1991) Nature 352:624-628; Gram et al. (1992)
   PNAS 89:3576-3580; Garrard et al. (1991) Bio/Technology 9:1373-1377;
   Hoogenboom et al. (1991) Nuc Acid Res 19:4133-4137; and Barbas et al. (1991)
   PNAS 88:7978-7982; the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein.
                    Human monoclonal antibodies of this disclosure can also be prepared
15 using SCID mice into which human immune cells have been reconstituted such that a
   human antibody response can be generated upon immunization. Such mice are
   described in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,476,996 and 5,698,767 to Wilson et al.
                    In certain embodiments, the methods of the invention include anti-IL
   12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18 antibodies and antibody portions, anti-IL-12-related,
20 anti-TNFa-related, or anti-IL- 18-related antibodies and antibody portions, and human
   antibodies and antibody portions with equivalent properties to anti-IL- 12, anti-TNFa,
   or anti-IL-18 antibodies, such as high affinity binding to hIL-12, hTNFa, or hIL-18
   with low dissociation kinetics and high neutralizing capacity. In one aspect, the
   invention provides treatment with an isolated human antibody, or an antigen-binding
25 portion thereof, that dissociates from hIL-12, hTNFa, or hIL-18 with a Kd of about 1
   x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less, both determined by
   surface plasmon resonance. In specific non-limiting embodiments, an anti-IL12
   antibody purified according to the invention competitively inhibits binding of ABT
   874 to IL12 under physiological conditions. In specific non-limiting embodiments, an
30 anti-IL-18 antibody purified according to the invention competitively inhibits binding
   of ABT-325 to IL-18 under physiological conditions. In specific non-limiting
   embodiments, an anti-TNFa antibody purified according to the invention
   competitively inhibits binding of Adalimumab to TNFa under physiological
   conditions.
                                              17

                   In yet another embodiment of the invention, antibodies or fragments
   thereof, such as but not limited to anti-IL- 12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL- 18 antibodies or
   fragments thereof, can be altered wherein the constant region of the antibody is
   modified to reduce at least one constant region-mediated biological effector function
 5 relative to an unmodified antibody. To modify an antibody of the invention such that
   it exhibits reduced binding to the Fc receptor, the immunoglobulin constant region
   segment of the antibody can be mutated at particular regions necessary for Fc receptor
   (FcR) interactions (see, e.g., Canfield and Morrison (1991) J. Exp. Med. 173:1483
   1491; and Lund et al. (1991) J. of Immunol. 147:2657-2662, the entire teachings of
10 which are incorporated herein). Reduction in FcR binding ability of the antibody may
   also reduce other effector functions which rely on FcR interactions, such as
   opsonization and phagocytosis and antigen-dependent cellular cytotoxicity.
                   3.      Antibody Production
15                 To express an antibody of the invention, DNAs encoding partial or
   full-length light and heavy chains are inserted into one or more expression vector such
   that the genes are operatively linked to transcriptional and translational control
   sequences. (See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,914,128, the entire teaching of which is
   incorporated herein by reference.) In this context, the term "operatively linked" is
20 intended to mean that an antibody gene is ligated into a vector such that
   transcriptional and translational control sequences within the vector serve their
   intended function of regulating the transcription and translation of the antibody gene.
   The expression vector and expression control sequences are chosen to be compatible
   with the expression host cell used. The antibody light chain gene and the antibody
25 heavy chain gene can be inserted into a separate vector or, more typically, both genes
   are inserted into the same expression vector. The antibody genes are inserted into an
   expression vector by standard methods (e.g., ligation of complementary restriction
   sites on the antibody gene fragment and vector, or blunt end ligation if no restriction
   sites are present). Prior to insertion of the antibody or antibody-related light or heavy
30 chain sequences, the expression vector may already carry antibody constant region
   sequences. For example, one approach to converting the anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or
   anti-IL-18 antibody or anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18 antibody-related VH and
   VL sequences to full-length antibody genes is to insert them into expression vectors
                                              18

   already encoding heavy chain constant and light chain constant regions, respectively,
   such that the VH segment is operatively linked to the CH segment(s) within the vector
   and the VL segment is operatively linked to the CL segment within the vector.
   Additionally or alternatively, the recombinant expression vector can encode a signal
 5 peptide that facilitates secretion of the antibody chain from a host cell. The antibody
   chain gene can be cloned into the vector such that the signal peptide is linked in-frame
   to the amino terminus of the antibody chain gene. The signal peptide can be an
   immunoglobulin signal peptide or a heterologous signal peptide (i.e., a signal peptide
   from a non-immunoglobulin protein).
10                 In addition to the antibody chain genes, a recombinant expression
   vector of the invention can carry one or more regulatory sequence that controls the
   expression of the antibody chain genes in a host cell. The term "regulatory sequence"
   is intended to include promoters, enhancers and other expression control elements
   (e.g., polyadenylation signals) that control the transcription or translation of the
15 antibody chain genes. Such regulatory sequences are described, e.g., in Goeddel;
   Gene Expression Technology: Methods in Enzymology 185, Academic Press, San
   Diego, CA (1990), the entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference. It
   will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the design of the expression vector,
   including the selection of regulatory sequences may depend on such factors as the
20 choice of the host cell to be transformed, the level of expression of protein desired,
   etc. Suitable regulatory sequences for mammalian host cell expression include viral
   elements that direct high levels of protein expression in mammalian cells, such as
   promoters and/or enhancers derived from cytomegalovirus (CMV) (such as the CMV
   promoter/enhancer), Simian Virus 40 (SV40) (such as the SV40 promoter/enhancer),
25 adenovirus, (e.g., the adenovirus major late promoter (AdMLP)) and polyoma. For
   further description of viral regulatory elements, and sequences thereof, see, e.g., U.S.
   Patent No. 5,168,062 by Stinski, U.S. Patent No. 4,510,245 by Bell et al. and U.S.
   Patent No. 4,968,615 by Schaffier et al., the entire teachings of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
30                 In addition to the antibody chain genes and regulatory sequences, a
   recombinant expression vector of the invention may carry one or more additional
   sequences, such as a sequence that regulates replication of the vector in host cells
   (e.g., origins of replication) and/or a selectable marker gene. The selectable marker
   gene facilitates selection of host cells into which the vector has been introduced (see
                                              19

    e.g., U.S. Patents Nos. 4,399,216, 4,634,665 and 5,179,017, all by Axel et al., the
    entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference). For example,
    typically the selectable marker gene confers resistance to drugs, such as G418,
   hygromycin or methotrexate, on a host cell into which the vector has been introduced.
 5  Suitable selectable marker genes include the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene
    (for use in dhfr- host cells with methotrexate selection/amplification) and the neo gene
    (for G418 selection).
                    An antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention can be prepared by
   recombinant expression of immunoglobulin light and heavy chain genes in a host cell.
10 To express an antibody recombinantly, a host cell is transfected with one or more
   recombinant expression vectors carrying DNA fragments encoding the
   immunoglobulin light and heavy chains of the antibody such that the light and heavy
   chains are expressed in the host cell and secreted into the medium in which the host
   cells are cultured, from which medium the antibodies can be recovered. Standard
15 recombinant DNA methodologies are used to obtain antibody heavy and light chain
   genes, incorporate these genes into recombinant expression vectors and introduce the
   vectors into host cells, such as those described in Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis
   (eds), Molecular Cloning; A Laboratory Manual, Second Edition, Cold Spring
   Harbor, N.Y., (1989), Ausubel et al. (eds.) Current Protocols in Molecular Biology,
20 Greene Publishing Associates, (1989) and in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,816,397 & 6,914,128,
   the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein.
                    For expression of the light and heavy chains, the expression vector(s)
   encoding the heavy and light chains is (are) transfected into a host cell by standard
   techniques. The various forms of the term "transfection" are intended to encompass a
25 wide variety of techniques commonly used for the introduction of exogenous DNA
   into a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell, e.g., electroporation, calcium-phosphate
   precipitation, DEAE-dextran transfection and the like. Although it is theoretically
   possible to express the antibodies of the invention in either prokaryotic or eukaryotic
   host cells, expression of antibodies in eukaryotic cells, such as mammalian host cells,
30 is suitable because such eukaryotic cells, and in particular mammalian cells, are more
   likely than prokaryotic cells to assemble and secrete a properly folded and
   immunologically active antibody. Prokaryotic expression of antibody genes has been
   reported to be ineffective for production of high yields of active antibody (Boss and
                                              20

     Wood (1985) Immunology Today 6:12-13, the entire teaching of which is
     incorporated herein by reference).
                      Suitable host cells for cloning or expressing the DNA in the vectors
     herein are the prokaryote, yeast, or higher eukaryote cells described above. Suitable
  5 prokaryotes for this purpose include eubacteria, such as Gram-negative or Gram
    positive organisms, e.g., Enterobacteriaceae such as Escherichia, e.g., E. coli,
     Enterobacter, Erwinia, Klebsiella, Proteus, Salmonella, e.g., Salmonella typhimurium,
     Serratia, e.g., Serratia marcescans, and Shigella, as well as Bacilli such as B. subtilis
     and B. licheniformis (e.g., B. licheniformis 41P disclosed in DD 266,710 published
10  Apr. 12, 1989), Pseudomonas such as P. aeruginosa, and Streptomyces. One suitable
    E. coli cloning host is E. coli 294 (ATCC 31,446), although other strains such as E.
    coli B, E. coli X1776 (ATCC 31,537), and E. coli W3110 (ATCC 27,325) are
    suitable. These examples are illustrative rather than limiting.
                      In addition to prokaryotes, eukaryotic microbes such as filamentous
15  fungi or yeast are suitable cloning or expression hosts for polypeptide encoding
    vectors. Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or common baker's yeast, is the most commonly
    used among lower eukaryotic host microorganisms. However, a number of other
    genera, species, and strains are commonly available and useful herein, such as
    Schizosaccharomyces pombe; Kluyveromyces hosts such as, e.g., K. lactis, K. fragilis
20  (ATCC 12,424), K. bulgaricus (ATCC 16,045), K. wickeramii (ATCC 24,178), K.
    waltii (ATCC 56,500), K. drosophilarum (ATCC 36,906), K. thermotolerans, and K.
    marxianus; yarrowia (EP 402,226); Pichia pastoris (EP 183,070); Candida;
    Trichoderma reesia (EP 244,234); Neurospora crassa; Schwanniomyces such as
    Schwanniomyces occidentalis; and filamentous fungi such as, e.g., Neurospora,
25  Penicillium, Tolypocladium, and Aspergillus hosts such as A. nidulans and A. niger.
                      Suitable host cells for the expression of glycosylated antibodies are
    derived from multicellular organisms. Examples of invertebrate cells include plant
    and insect cells. Numerous baculoviral strains and variants and corresponding
    permissive insect host cells from hosts such as Spodoptera frugiperda (caterpillar),
30  Aedes aegypti (mosquito), Aedes albopictus (mosquito), Drosophila melanogaster
    (fruitfly), and Bombyx mori have been identified. A variety of viral strains for
    transfection are publicly available, e.g., the L-1 variant of Autographa californica
    NPV and the Bm-5 strain of Bombyx mori NPV, and such viruses may be used as the
    virus herein according to the present invention, particularly for transfection of
                                                21

   Spodoptera frugiperda cells. Plant cell cultures of cotton, corn, potato, soybean,
   petunia, tomato, and tobacco can also be utilized as hosts.
                    Suitable mammalian host cells for expressing the recombinant
   antibodies of the invention include Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO cells) (including
 5 dhfr- CHO cells, described in Urlaub and Chasin, (1980) PNAS USA 77:4216-4220,
   used with a DHFR selectable marker, e.g., as described in Kaufman and Sharp (1982)
   Mol. Biol. 159:601-621, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by
   reference), NSO myeloma cells, COS cells and SP2 cells. When recombinant
   expression vectors encoding antibody genes are introduced into mammalian host
10 cells, the antibodies are produced by culturing the host cells for a period of time
   sufficient to allow for expression of the antibody in the host cells or secretion of the
   antibody into the culture medium in which the host cells are grown. Other examples
   of useful mammalian host cell lines are monkey kidney CV1 line transformed by
   SV40 (COS-7, ATCC CRL 1651); human embryonic kidney line (293 or 293 cells
15 subcloned for growth in suspension culture, Graham et al., J. Gen Virol. 36:59
   (1977)); baby hamster kidney cells (BHK, ATCC CCL 10); Chinese hamster ovary
   cells/-DHFR (CHO, Urlaub et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:4216 (1980));
   mouse sertoli cells (TM4, Mather, Biol. Reprod. 23:243-251 (1980)); monkey kidney
   cells (CV1 ATCC CCL 70); African green monkey kidney cells (VERO-76, ATCC
20 CRL-1587); human cervical carcinoma cells (HELA, ATCC CCL 2); canine kidney
   cells (MDCK, ATCC CCL 34); buffalo rat liver cells (BRL 3A, ATCC CRL 1442);
   human lung cells (W138, ATCC CCL 75); human liver cells (Hep G2, HB 8065);
   mouse mammary tumor (MMT 060562, ATCC CCL5 1); TRI cells (Mather et al.,
   Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 383:44-68 (1982)); MRC 5 cells; FS4 cells; and a human
25 hepatoma line (Hep G2), the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by
   reference.
                    Host cells are transformed with the above-described expression or
   cloning vectors for antibody production and cultured in conventional nutrient media
   modified as appropriate for inducing promoters, selecting transformants, or
30 amplifying the genes encoding the desired sequences.
                    The host cells used to produce an antibody may be cultured in a variety
   of media. Commercially available media such as Ham's F1OTM (Sigma), Minimal
   Essential MediumT M ((MEM), (Sigma), RPMI-1640 (Sigma), and Dulbecco's
   Modified Eagle's MediumT M ((DMEM), Sigma) are suitable for culturing the host
                                             22

   cells. In addition, any of the media described in Ham et al., Meth. Enz. 58:44 (1979),
   Barnes et al., Anal. Biochem. 102:255 (1980), U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,767,704; 4,657,866;
   4,927,762; 4,560,655; or 5,122,469; WO 90/03430; WO 87/00195; or U.S. Pat. No.
   Re. 30,985 may be used as culture media for the host cells, the entire teachings of
 5 which are incorporated herein by reference. Any of these media may be
   supplemented as necessary with hormones and/or other growth factors (such as
   insulin, transferrin, or epidermal growth factor), salts (such as sodium chloride,
   calcium, magnesium, and phosphate), buffers (such as HEPES), nucleotides (such as
   adenosine and thymidine), antibiotics (such as gentamycin drug), trace elements
10 (defined as inorganic compounds usually present at final concentrations in the
   micromolar range), and glucose or an equivalent energy source. Any other necessary
   supplements may also be included at appropriate concentrations that would be known
   to those skilled in the art. The culture conditions, such as temperature, pH, and the
   like, are those previously used with the host cell selected for expression, and will be
15 apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.
                    Host cells can also be used to produce portions of intact antibodies,
   such as Fab fragments or scFv molecules. It is understood that variations on the
   above procedure are within the scope of the present invention. For example, in
   certain embodiments it may be desirable to transfect a host cell with DNA encoding
20 either the light chain or the heavy chain (but not both) of an antibody of this
   invention. Recombinant DNA technology may also be used to remove some or all of
   the DNA encoding either or both of the light and heavy chains that is not necessary
   for binding to IL-12, specifically hIL-12, in the context of anti-IL-12 antibodies or
   that DNA not necessary for binding to IL-18, specifically hIL-18, in the context of
25 anti-IL- 18 antibodies, or that DNA not necessary for binding to TNFa, specifically
   hTNFa, in the context of anti-TNFa antibodies. The molecules expressed from such
   truncated DNA molecules are also encompassed by the antibodies of the invention. In
   addition, bifunctional antibodies may be produced in which one heavy and one light
   chain are an antibody of the invention and the other heavy and light chain are specific
30 for an antigen other than IL-12, TNFa, or IL-18, depending on the specificity of the
   antibody of the invention, by crosslinking an antibody of the invention to a second
   antibody by standard chemical crosslinking methods.
                    In a suitable system for recombinant expression of an antibody, or
   antigen-binding portion thereof, of the invention, a recombinant expression vector
                                              23

   encoding both the antibody heavy chain and the antibody light chain is introduced
   into dhfr-CHO cells by calcium phosphate-mediated transfection. Within the
   recombinant expression vector, the antibody heavy and light chain genes are each
   operatively linked to CMV enhancer/AdMLP promoter regulatory elements to drive
 5 high levels of transcription of the genes. The recombinant expression vector also
   carries a DHFR gene, which allows for selection of CHO cells that have been
   transfected with the vector using methotrexate selection/amplification. The selected
   transformant host cells are cultured to allow for expression of the antibody heavy and
   light chains and intact antibody is recovered from the culture medium. Standard
10 molecular biology techniques are used to prepare the recombinant expression vector,
   transfect the host cells, select for transformants, culture the host cells and recover the
   antibody from the culture medium.
                    When using recombinant techniques, the antibody can be produced
   intracellularly, in the periplasmic space, or directly secreted into the medium. In one
15 aspect, if the antibody is produced intracellularly, as a first step, the particulate debris,
   either host cells or lysed cells (e.g., resulting from homogenization), can be removed,
   e.g., by centrifugation or ultrafiltration. Where the antibody is secreted into the
   medium, supernatants from such expression systems can be first concentrated using a
   commercially available protein concentration filter, e.g., an AmiconTmor Millipore
20 PelliconTM ultrafiltration unit.
                    Prior to the process of the invention, procedures for purification of
   antibodies from cell debris initially depend on the site of expression of the antibody.
   Some antibodies can be secreted directly from the cell into the surrounding growth
   media; others are made intracellularly. For the latter antibodies, the first step of a
25 purification process typically involves: lysis of the cell, which can be done by a
   variety of methods, including mechanical shear, osmotic shock, or enzymatic
   treatments. Such disruption releases the entire contents of the cell into the
   homogenate, and in addition produces subcellular fragments that are difficult to
   remove due to their small size. These are generally removed by differential
30 centrifugation or by filtration. Where the antibody is secreted, supernatants from such
   expression systems are generally first concentrated using a commercially available
   protein concentration filter, e.g., an AmiconTM or Millipore PelliconTM ultrafiltration
   unit. Where the antibody is secreted into the medium, the recombinant host cells can
   also be separated from the cell culture medium, e.g., by tangential flow filtration.
                                               24

   Antibodies can be further recovered from the culture medium using the antibody
   purification methods of the invention.
                  4.     Antibody Purification
 5                       4.1     Antibody Purification Generally
                  The invention provides a method for producing a purified (or "HCP
   reduced") antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least
   one HCP. The purification process of the invention begins at the separation step
   when the antibody has been produced using methods described above and
10 conventional methods in the art. Table 1 summarizes one embodiment of a
   purification scheme. Variations of this scheme, including, but not limited to,
   variations where the Protein A affinity chromatography step is omitted or the order of
   the ion exchange steps is reversed, are envisaged and are within the scope of this
   invention.
                                            25

    Table 1           Purification steps with their associated purpose
                Purification step                                   Purpose
                Primary recovery                        clarification of sample matrix
            Affinity chromatography          antibody capture, host cell protein and associated
                                                               impurity reduction
                Cation exchange              antibody capture, host cell protein and associated
                chromatography                                 impurity reduction
            ultrafiltration/diafiltration           concentration and buffer exchange
                Anion exchange                    reduction of host cell proteins and DNA
                chromatography
            Phenyl SepharoseM HP              reduction of antibody aggregates and host cell
                chromatography                                      proteins
                  Viral filtration                   removal of large viruses, if present
         Final ultrafiltration/diafiltration        concentrate and formulate antibody
                      Once a clarified solution or mixture comprising the antibody has been
   obtained, separation of the antibody from the other proteins produced by the cell, such
 5 as HCPs, is performed using a combination of different purification techniques,
   including ion exchange separation step(s) and hydrophobic interaction separation
   step(s). The separation steps separate mixtures of proteins on the basis of their
   charge, degree of hydrophobicity, or size. In one aspect of the invention, separation is
   performed using chromatography, including cationic, anionic, and hydrophobic
10 interaction. Several different chromatography resins are available for each of these
   techniques, allowing accurate tailoring of the purification scheme to the particular
   protein involved. The essence of each of the separation methods is that proteins can
   be caused either to traverse at different rates down a column, achieving a physical
   separation that increases as they pass further down the column, or to adhere
15 selectively to the separation medium, being then differentially eluted by different
                                                 26

   solvents. In some cases, the antibody is separated from impurities when the
   impurities specifically adhere to the column and the antibody does not, i.e., the
   antibody is present in the flow through.
                   As noted above, accurate tailoring of a purification scheme relies on
 5 consideration of the protein to be purified. In certain embodiments, the separation
   steps of the instant invention are employed to separate an antibody from one or more
   HCPs. Antibodies that can be successfully purified using the methods described
   herein include, but are not limited to, human IgA 1 , IgA 2, IgD, IgE, IgG 1 , IgG 2 , IgG 3,
   IgG 4, and IgM antibodies. In certain embodiments, the purification strategies of the
10 instant invention exclude the use of Protein A affinity chromatography, for example
   in the context of the purification of IgG 3 antibodies, as IgG 3 antibodies bind to Protein
   A inefficiently. Other factors that allow for specific tailoring of a purification scheme
   include, but are not limited to: the presence or absence of an Fc region (e.g., in the
   context of full length antibody as compared to an Fab fragment thereof) because
15 Protein A binds to the Fe region; the particular germline sequences employed in
   generating to antibody of interest; and the amino acid composition of the antibody
   (e.g., the primary sequence of the antibody as well as the overall
   charge/hydrophobicity of the molecule). Antibodies sharing one or more
   characteristic can be purified using purification strategies tailored to take advantage of
20 that characteristic.
                           4.2     Primary Recovery
                   The initial steps of the purification methods of the present invention
   involve the first phase of clarification and primary recovery of antibody from a
25 sample matrix. In addition, the primary recovery process can also be a point at which
   to reduce or inactivate viruses that can be present in the sample matrix. For example,
   any one or more of a variety of methods of viral reduction/inactivation can be used
   during the primary recovery phase of purification including heat inactivation
   (pasteurization), pH inactivation, solvent/detergent treatment, UV and y-ray
30 irradiation and the addition of certain chemical inactivating agents such as p
   propiolactone or e.g., copper phenanthroline as in U.S. Pat. No. 4,534,972, the entire
   teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference. In certain embodiments of the
                                             27

   present invention, the sample matrix is exposed to pH viral reduction/inactivation
   during the primary recovery phase.
                     Methods of pH viral reduction/inactivation include, but are not limited
   to, incubating the mixture for a period of time at low pH, and subsequently
 5 neutralizing the pH and removing particulates by filtration. In certain embodiments
   the mixture will be incubated at a pH of between about 2 and 5, preferably at a pH of
   between about 3 and 4, and more preferably at a pH of about 3.5. The pH of the
   sample mixture may be lowered by any suitable acid including, but not limited to,
   citric acid, acetic acid, caprylic acid, or other suitable acids. The choice of pH level
10 largely depends on the stability profile of the antibody product and buffer
   components. It is known that the quality of the target antibody during low pH virus
   reduction/inactivation is affected by pH and the duration of the low pH incubation. In
   certain embodiments the duration of the low pH incubation will be from 0.5hr to 2hr,
   preferably 0.5hr to 1.5hr, and more preferably the duration will be lhr. Virus
15 reduction/inactivation is dependent on these same parameters in addition to protein
   concentration, which may limit reduction/inactivation at high concentrations. Thus,
   the proper parameters of protein concentration, pH, and duration of
   reduction/inactivation can be selected to achieve the desired level of viral
   reduction/inactivation.
20                   In certain embodiments viral reduction/inactivation can be achieved
    via the use of suitable filters. A non-limiting example of a suitable filter is the Ultipor
    DV50TM filter from Pall Corporation. Although certain embodiments of the present
    invention employ such filtration during the primary recovery phase, in other
    embodiments it is employed at other phases of the purification process, including as
25  either the penultimate or final step of purification. In certain embodiments,
    alternative filters are employed for viral reduction/inactivation, such as, but not
    limited to, ViresolveTM filters (Millipore, Billerica, Mass.); Zeta Plus VRTM filters
    (CUNO; Meriden, Conn.); and PlanovaTM filters (Asahi Kasei Pharma, Planova
    Division, Buffalo Grove, Ill.).
30                   In those embodiments where viral reduction/inactivation is employed,
    the sample mixture can be adjusted, as needed, for further purification steps. For
    example, following low pH viral reduction/inactivation the pH of the sample mixture
    is typically adjusted to a more neutral pH, e.g., from about 4.5 to about 8.5, and
    preferably about 4.9, prior to continuing the purification process. Additionally, the
                                               28

   mixture may be flushed with water for injection (WFI) to obtain a desired
   conductivity.
                    In certain embodiments, the primary recovery will include one or more
   centrifugation steps to further clarify the sample matrix and thereby aid in purifying
 5 the anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18 antibodies. Centrifugation of the sample can
   be run at, for example, but not by way of limitation, 7,000 x g to approximately
   12,750 x g. In the context of large scale purification, such centrifugation can occur
   on-line with a flow rate set to achieve, for example, but not by way of limitation, a
   turbidity level of 150 NTU in the resulting supernatant. Such supernatant can then be
10 collected for further purification.
                    In certain embodiments, the primary recovery will include the use of
   one or more depth filtration steps to further clarify the sample matrix and thereby aid
   in purifying the antibodies of the present invention. Depth filters contain filtration
   media having a graded density. Such graded density allows larger particles to be
15 trapped near the surface of the filter while smaller particles penetrate the larger open
   areas at the surface of the filter, only to be trapped in the smaller openings nearer to
   the center of the filter. In certain embodiments the depth filtration step can be a
   delipid depth filtration step. Although certain embodiments employ depth filtration
   steps only during the primary recovery phase, other embodiments employ depth
20 filters, including delipid depth filters, during one or more additional phases of
   purification. Non-limiting examples of depth filters that can be used in the context of
   the instant invention include the Cuno TM model 30/60ZA depth filters (3M Corp.),
   and 0.45/0.2ptm Sartopore TM bi-layer filter cartridges.
25                          4.3     Affinity Chromatography
                    In certain embodiments, the primary recovery sample is subjected to
   affinity chromatography to further purify the antibody of interest away from HCPs.
   In certain embodiments the chromatographic material is capable of selectively or
   specifically binding to the antibody of interest. Non-limiting examples of such
30 chromatographic material include: Protein A, Protein G, chromatographic material
   comprosing the antigen bound by the antibody of interest, and chromatographic
   material comprising an Fc binding protein. In specific embodiments, the affinity
   chromatography step involves subjecting the primary recovery sample to a column
                                              29

   comprising a suitable Protein A resin. Protein A resin is useful for affinity
   purification and isolation of a variety antibody isotypes, particularly IgGI, IgG 2, and
   IgG 4 . Protein A is a bacterial cell wall protein that binds to mammalian IgGs
   primarily through their Fc regions. In its native state, Protein A has five IgG binding
 5 domains as well as other domains of unknown function.
                   There are several commercial sources for Protein A resin. One suitable
   resin is MabSelectTM from GE Healthcare. A non-limiting example of a suitable
   column packed with MabSelectTM is an about 1.0 cm diameter x about 21.6 cm long
   column (~17 mL bed volume). This size column can be used for small scale
10 purifications and can be compared with other columns used for scale ups. For
   example, a 20 cm x 21 cm column whose bed volume is about 6.6 L can be used for
   larger purifications. Regardless of the column, the column can be packed using a
   suitable resin such as MabSelectTM.
                   In certain embodiments it will be advantageous to identify the dynamic
15 binding capacity (DBC) of the Protein A resin in order to tailor the purification to the
   particular antibody of interest. For example, but not by way of limitation, the DBC of
   a MabSelectTM column can be determined either by a single flow rate load or dual
   flow load strategy. The single flow rate load can be evaluated at a velocity of about
   300 cm/hr throughout the entire loading period. The dual-flow rate load strategy can
20 be determined by loading the column up to about 35 mg protein/mL resin at a linear
   velocity of about 300 cm/hr, then reducing the linear velocity by half to allow longer
   residence time for the last portion of the load.
                    In certain embodiments, the Protein A column can be equilibrated with
   a suitable buffer prior to sample loading. A non-limiting example of a suitable buffer
25 is a Tris/NaCl buffer, pH of about 7.2. A non-limiting example of suitable
   equilibration conditions is 25 mM Tris, 100 mM NaCl, pH of about 7.2. Following
   this equilibration, the sample can be loaded onto the column. Following the loading
   of the column, the column can be washed one or multiple times using, e.g., the
    equilibrating buffer. Other washes, including washes employing different buffers, can
30 be employed prior to eluting the column. For example, the column can be washed
   using one or more column volumes of 20 mM citric acid/sodium citrate, 0.5 M NaCl
    at pH of about 6.0. This wash can optionally be followed by one or more washes
   using the equilibrating buffer. The Protein A column can then be eluted using an
    appropriate elution buffer. A non-limiting example of a suitable elution buffer is an
                                               30

   acetic acid/NaCl buffer, pH of about 3.5. Suitable conditions are, e.g., 0.1 M acetic
   acid , pH of about 3.5. The eluate can be monitored using techniques well known to
   those skilled in the art. For example, the absorbance at OD 280 can be followed.
   Column eluate can be collected starting with an initial deflection of about 0.5 AU to a
 5 reading of about 0.5 AU at the trailing edge of the elution peak. The elution
   fraction(s) of interest can then be prepared for further processing. For example, the
   collected sample can be titrated to a pH of about 5.0 using Tris (e.g., 1.0 M) at a pH of
   about 10. Optionally, this titrated sample can be filtered and further processed.
10                          4.4    Ion Exchange Chromatography
                    In certain embodiments, the instant invention provides methods for
   producing a HCP-reduced antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an
   antibody and at least one HCP by subjecting the mixture to at least one ion exchange
   separation step such that an eluate comprising the antibody is obtained. Ion exchange
15 separation includes any method by which two substances are separated based on the
   difference in their respective ionic charges, and can employ either cationic exchange
   material or anionic exchange material.
                    The use of a cationic exchange material versus an anionic exchange
   material is based on the overall charge of the protein. Therefore, it is within the scope
20 of this invention to employ an anionic exchange step prior to the use of a cationic
   exchange step, or a cationic exchange step prior to the use of an anionic exchange
   step. Furthermore, it is within the scope of this invention to employ only a cationic
   exchange step, only an anionic exchange step, or any serial combination of the two.
                   In performing the separation, the initial antibody mixture can be
25 contacted with the ion exchange material by using any of a variety of techniques, e.g.,
   using a batch purification technique or a chromatographic technique.
                   For example, in the context of batch purification, ion exchange
   material is prepared in, or equilibrated to, the desired starting buffer. Upon
   preparation, or equilibration, a slurry of the ion exchange material is obtained. The
30 antibody solution is contacted with the slurry to adsorb the antibody to be separated to
   the ion exchange material. The solution comprising the HCP(s) that do not bind to the
   ion exchange material is separated from the slurry, e.g., by allowing the slurry to
   settle and removing the supernatant. The slurry can be subjected to one or more wash
                                             31

   steps. If desired, the slurry can be contacted with a solution of higher conductivity to
   desorb HCPs that have bound to the ion exchange material. In order to elute bound
   polypeptides, the salt concentration of the buffer can be increased.
                   Ion exchange chromatography may also be used as an ion exchange
 5 separation technique. Ion exchange chromatography separates molecules based on
   differences between the overall charge of the molecules. For the purification of an
   antibody, the antibody must have a charge opposite to that of the functional group
   attached to the ion exchange material, e.g., resin, in order to bind. For example,
   antibodies, which generally have an overall positive charge in the buffer pH below its
10 pI, will bind well to cation exchange material, which contain negatively charged
   functional groups.
                   In ion exchange chromatography, charged patches on the surface of the
   solute are attracted by opposite charges attached to a chromatography matrix,
   provided the ionic strength of the surrounding buffer is low. Elution is generally
15 achieved by increasing the ionic strength (i.e., conductivity) of the buffer to compete
   with the solute for the charged sites of the ion exchange matrix. Changing the pH and
   thereby altering the charge of the solute is another way to achieve elution of the
   solute. The change in conductivity or pH may be gradual (gradient elution) or
   stepwise (step elution).
20                 Anionic or cationic substituents may be attached to matrices in order to
   form anionic or cationic supports for chromatography. Non-limiting examples of
   anionic exchange substituents include diethylaminoethyl (DEAE), quaternary
   aminoethyl(QAE) and quaternary amine(Q) groups. Cationic substitutents include
   carboxymethyl (CM), sulfoethyl(SE), sulfopropyl(SP), phosphate(P) and sulfonate(S).
25 Cellulose ion exchange resins such as DE23TM, DE32TM, DE52TM, CM-23 TM, CM
   32TM, and CM-52TM are available from Whatman Ltd. Maidstone, Kent, U.K.
   SEPHADEX@-based and -locross-linked ion exchangers are also known. For
   example, DEAE-, QAE-, CM-, and SP- SEPHADEX@ and DEAE-,                 Q-, CM-and S
   SEPHAROSE@ and SEPHAROSE@ Fast Flow are all available from Pharmacia AB.
30 Further, both DEAE and CM derivitized ethylene glycol-methacrylate copolymer
   such as TOYOPEARLTM DEAE-650S or M and TOYOPEARL TM CM-650S or M are
   available from Toso Haas Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
                    A mixture comprising an antibody and impurities, e.g., HCP(s), is
   loaded onto an ion exchange column, such as a cation exchange column. For
                                              32

   example, but not by way of limitation, the mixture can be loaded at a load of about 80
   g protein/L resin depending upon the column used. An example of a suitable cation
   exchange column is a 80 cm diameter x 23 cm long column whose bed volume is
   about 116 L. The mixture loaded onto this cation column can subsequently washed
 5 with wash buffer (equilibration buffer). The antibody is then eluted from the column,
   and a first eluate is obtained.
                    This ion exchange step facilitates the capture of the antibody of interest
   while reducing impurities such as HCPs. In certain aspects, the ion exchange column
   is a cation exchange column. For example, but not by way of limitation, a suitable
10 resin for such a cation exchange column is CM HyperDF resin. These resins are
   available from commercial sources such as Pall Corporation. This cation exchange
   procedure can be carried out at or around room temperature.
                             4.5     Ultrafiltration/Diafiltration
15                  Certain embodiments of the present invention employ ultrafiltration
   and/or diafiltration steps to further purify and concentrate the antibody sample.
   Ultrafiltration is described in detail in: Microfiltration and Ultrafiltration: Principles
   and Applications, L. Zeman and A. Zydney (Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, N.Y.,
   1996); and in: Ultrafiltration Handbook, Munir Cheryan (Technomic Publishing,
20  1986; ISBN No. 87762-456-9). A preferred filtration process is Tangential Flow
   Filtration as described in the Millipore catalogue entitled "Pharmaceutical Process
   Filtration Catalogue" pp. 177-202 (Bedford, Mass., 1995/96). Ultrafiltration is
   generally considered to mean filtration using filters with a pore size of smaller than
   0.1 pm. By employing filters having such small pore size, the volume of the sample
25 can be reduced through permeation of the sample buffer through the filter while
   antibodies are retained behind the filter.
                     Diafiltration is a method of using ultrafilters to remove and exchange
   salts, sugars, and non-aqueous solvents, to separate free from bound species, to
   remove low molecular-weight material, and/or to cause the rapid change of ionic
30 and/or pH environments. Microsolutes are removed most efficiently by adding
   solvent to the solution being ultrafiltered at a rate approximately equal to the
   ultratfiltration rate. This washes microspecies from the solution at a constant volume,
   effectively purifying the retained antibody. In certain embodiments of the present
                                               33

   invention, a diafiltration step is employed to exchange the various buffers used in
   connection with the instant invention, optionally prior to further chromatography or
   other purification steps, as well as to remove impurities from the antibody
   preparations.
 5
                            4.6     Hydrophobic Interaction Chromatography
                    The present invention also features methods for producing a HCP
   reduced antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one
   HCP further comprising a hydrophobic interaction separation step. For example, a
10 first eluate obtained from an ion exchange column can be subjected to a hydrophobic
   interaction material such that a second eluate having a reduced level of HCP is
   obtained. Hydrophobic interaction chromatography steps, such as those disclosed
   herein, are generally performed to remove protein aggregates, such as antibody
   aggregates, and process-related impurities.
15                  In performing the separation, the sample mixture is contacted with the
   HIC material, e.g., using a batch purification technique or using a column. Prior to
   HIC purification it may be desirable to remove any chaotropic agents or very
   hydrophobic substances, e.g., by passing the mixture through a pre-column.
                    For example, in the context of batch purification, HIC material is
20 prepared in or equilibrated to the desired equilibration buffer. A slurry of the HIC
   material is obtained. The antibody solution is contacted with the slurry to adsorb the
   antibody to be separated to the HIC material. The solution comprising the HCPs that
   do not bind to the HIC material is separated from the slurry, e.g., by allowing the
   slurry to settle and removing the supernatant. The slurry can be subjected to one or
25 more washing steps. If desired, the slurry can be contacted with a solution of lower
   conductivity to desorb antibodies that have bound to the HIC material. In order to
   elute bound antibodies, the salt concentration can be decreased.
                    Whereas ion exchange chromatography relies on the charges of the
   antibodies to isolate them, hydrophobic interaction chromatography uses the
30 hydrophobic properties of the antibodies. Hydrophobic groups on the antibody
   interact with hydrophobic groups on the column. The more hydrophobic a protein is
   the stronger it will interact with the column. Thus the HIC step removes host cell
                                              34

   derived impurities (e.g., DNA and other high and low molecular weight product
   related species).
                   Hydrophobic interactions are strongest at high ionic strength, therefore,
   this form of separation is conveniently performed following salt precipitations or ion
 5 exchange procedures. Adsorption of the antibody to a HIC column is favored by high
   salt concentrations, but the actual concentrations can vary over a wide range
   depending on the nature of the antibody and the particular HIC ligand chosen.
   Various ions can be arranged in a so-called soluphobic series depending on whether
   they promote hydrophobic interactions (salting-out effects) or disrupt the structure of
10 water (chaotropic effect) and lead to the weakening of the hydrophobic interaction.
   Cations are ranked in terms of increasing salting out effect as Ba++; Ca++; Mg++;
   Li+ ; Cs+ ; Na+ ; K+ ; Rb+ ; NH4+, while anions may be ranked in terms of
   increasing chaotropic effect as P0--- ; S04-- ; CH3CO3 - ; Cl- ; Br- ; N03- ; C104- ; I
     SCN-.
15                 In general, Na, K or NH4 sulfates effectively promote ligand-protein
   interaction in HIC. Salts may be formulated that influence the strength of the
   interaction as given by the following relationship: (NH4)2SO4 > Na2SO4 > NaCl >
   NH4C1 > NaBr > NaSCN. In general, salt concentrations of between about 0.75 and
   about 2 M ammonium sulfate or between about 1 and 4 M NaCl are useful.
20                 HIC columns normally comprise a base matrix (e.g., cross-linked
   agarose or synthetic copolymer material) to which hydrobobic ligands (e.g., alkyl or
   aryl groups) are coupled. A suitable HIC column comprises an agarose resin
   substituted with phenyl groups (e.g., a Phenyl Sepharose TM column). Many HIC
   columns are available commercially. Examples include, but are not limited to, Phenyl
25 SepharoseTM 6 Fast Flow column with low or high substitution (Pharmacia LKB
   Biotechnology, AB, Sweden); Phenyl SepharoseTM High Performance column
   (Pharmacia LKB Biotechnology, AB, Sweden); Octyl SepharoseTM High Performance
   column (Pharmacia LKB Biotechnology, AB, Sweden); Fractogel TM EMD Propyl or
   FractogelTM EMD Phenyl columns (E. Merck, Germany); Macro-Prep TM Mehyl or
30 Macro-Prep TM t-Butyl Supports (Bio-Rad, California); WP HI-Propyl (C3) T M column
   (J. T. Baker, New Jersey); and ToyopearlTM ether, phenyl or butyl columns
   (TosoHaas, PA)
                                            35

                            4.7    Exemplary Purification Strategies
                    In certain embodiments, primary recovery can proceed by sequentially
   employing pH reduction, centrifugation, and filtration steps to remove cells and cell
 5 debris (including HCPs) from the production bioreactor harvest. For example, but not
   by way of limitation, a culture comprising antibodies, media, and cells can be
   subjected to pH-mediated virus reduction/inactivation using an acid pH of about 3.5
   for approximately 1 hour. The pH reduction can be facilitated using known acid
   preparations such as citric acid, e.g., 3 M citric acid. Exposure to acid pH reduces, if
10 not completely eliminates, pH sensitive viral contaminants and precipitates some
   media/cell contaminants. Following this viral reduction/inactivation step, the pH is
   adjusted to about 4.9 or 5.0 using a base such as sodium hydroxide, e.g., 3 M sodium
   hydroxide, for about twenty to about forty minutes. This adjustment can occur at
   around 20'C. In certain embodiments, the pH adjusted culture then centrifuged at
15 approximately 7000 x g to approximately 11,000 x g. In certain embodiments, the
   resulting sample supernatant is then passed through a filter train comprising multiple
   depth filters. In certain embodiments, the filter train comprises around twelve 16-inch
   CunoTM model 30/60ZA depth filters (3M Corp.) and around three round filter
   housings fitted with three 30-inch 0.45/0.2 tm SartoporeTM 2 filter cartridges
20 (Sartorius). The clarified supernatant is collected in a vessel such as a pre-sterilized
   harvest vessel and held at approximately 8 0C. This temperature is then adjusted to
   approximately 20'C prior to the capture chromatography step or steps outlined below.
   It should be noted that one skilled in the art may vary the conditions recited above and
   still be within the scope of the present invention.
25                  In certain embodiments, primary recovery will be followed by affinity
   chromatography using Protein A resin. There are several commercial sources for
   Protein A resin. One suitable resin is MabSelectTM from GE Healthcare. An example
   of a suitable column packed with MabSelectTM is a column about 1.0 cm diameter x
   about 21.6 cm long (~17 mL bed volume). This size column can be used for bench
30 scale. This can be compared with other columns used for scale ups. For example, a
   20 cm x 21 cm column whose bed volume is about 6.6 L can be used for commercial
   production. Regardless of the column, the column can be packed using a suitable
   resin such as MabSelectTM.
                                              36

                   In certain aspects, the Protein A column can be equilibrated with a
   suitable buffer prior to sample loading. An example of a suitable buffer is a
   Tris/NaCl buffer, pH of about 6 to 8, preferably about 7.2. A specific example of
   suitable conditions is 25 mM Tris, 100 mM NaCl, pH 7.2. Following this
 5 equilibration, the sample can be loaded onto the column. Following the loading of the
   column, the column can be washed one or multiple times using, e.g., the equilibrating
   buffer. Other washes including washes employing different buffers can be used
   before eluting the column. For example, the column can be washed using one or
   more column volumes of 20 mM citric acid/sodium citrate, 0.5 M NaCl at pH of
10 about 6.0. This wash can optionally be followed by one or more washes using the
   equilibrating buffer. The Protein A column can then be eluted using an appropriate
   elution buffer. An example of a suitable elution buffer is an acetic acid/NaCl buffer,
   pH around 3.5. Suitable conditions are, e.g., 0.1 M acetic acid , pH 3.5. The eluate
   can be monitored using techniques well known to those skilled in the art. For
15 example, the absorbance at OD 2 8 0 can be followed. Column eluate can be collected
   starting with an initial deflection of about 0.5 AU to a reading of about 0.5 AU at the
   trailing edge of the elution peak. The elution fraction(s) of interest can then be
   prepared for further processing. For example, the collected sample can be titrated to a
   pH of about 5.0 using Tris (e.g., 1.0 M) at a pH of about 10. Optionally, this titrated
20 sample can be filtered and further processed.
                   The dynamic binding capacity (DBC) of the MabSelect TM column can
   be determined either by a single flow rate load or dual-flow load strategy. The single
   flow rate load can be evaluated at a velocity of about 300 cm/hr throughout the entire
   loading period. The dual-flow rate load strategy can be determined by loading the
25 column up to about 35 mg protein/mL resin at a linear velocity of about 300 cm/hr,
   then reducing the linear velocity by half to allow longer residence time for the last
   portion of the load.
                   The Protein A eluate can then be further purified using a cation
   exchange column. In certain embodiments, the equilibrating buffer used in the cation
30 exchange column is a buffer having a pH of about 5.0. An example of a suitable
   buffer is about 210 mM sodium acetate, pH 5.0. Following equilibration, the column
   is loaded with sample prepared from the primary recovery step above. The column is
   packed with a cation exchange resin, such as CM SepharoseTM Fast Flow from GE
   Healthcare. The column is then washed using the equilibrating buffer. The column is
                                              37

   next subjected to an elution step using a buffer having a greater ionic strength as
   compared to the equilibrating or wash buffer. For example, a suitable elution buffer
   can be about 790 mM sodium acetate, pH 5.0. The antibodies will be eluted and can
   be monitored using a UV spectrophotometer set at OD28Onm. In a particular example,
 5 elution collection can be from upside 3     OD280nm to downside 8    OD280nm.  It should be
   understood that one skilled in the art may vary the conditions and yet still be within
   the scope of the invention.
                    In certain embodiments the Protein A eluate is instead further purified
   using an anion exchange column. A non-limiting example of a suitable column for
10 this step is a 60 cm diameter x 30 cm long column whose bed volume is about 85 L.
   The column is packed with an anion exchange resin, such as Q SepharoseTM Fast
   Flow from GE Healthcare. The column can be equilibrated using about seven column
   volumes of an appropriate buffer such as Tris/sodium chloride. An example of
   suitable conditions are 25 mM Tris, 50 mM sodium chloride at pH 8.0. A skilled
15 artisan may vary the conditions but still be within the scope of the present invention.
   The column is loaded with the collected sample from the Protein A purification step
   outlined above. In another aspect, the column is loaded from the eluate collected
   during cation exchange. Following the loading of the column, the column is washed
   with the equilibration buffer (e.g., the Tris/sodium chloride buffer). The flow-through
20 comprising the antibodies can be monitored using a UV spectrophotometer at
   OD280am.    This anion exchange step reduces process related impurities such as nucleic
   acids like DNA, and host cell proteins. The separation occurs due to the fact that the
   antibodies of interest do not substantially interact with nor bind to the solid phase of
   the column, e.g., to the Q SepharoseTM, but many impurities do interact with and bind
25 to the column's solid phase. The anion exchange can be performed at about 120 C.
                    In certain embodiments, the cation exchange or anion exchange eluate,
   depending on which ion exchange step is employed first, is next filtered using, e.g., a
   16 inch Cuno TM delipid filter. This filtration, using the delipid filter, can be followed
   by, e.g., a 30-inch 0.45/0.2 gm Sartopore TM bi-layer filter cartridge. The ion exchange
30 elution buffer can be used to flush the residual volume remaining in the filters and
   prepared for ultrafiltration/diafiltration.
                    In order to accomplish the ultratfiltration/diafiltration step, the
   filtration media is prepared in a suitable buffer, e.g., 20 mM sodium phosphate, pH
   7.0. A salt such as sodium chloride can be added to increase the ionic strength, e.g.,
                                               38

    100 mM sodium chloride. This ultrafiltration/diafiltration step serves to concentrate
   the anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18 antibodies, remove the sodium acetate and
   adjust the pH. Commercial filters are available to effectuate this step. For example,
   Millipore manufactures a 30 kD molecular weight cut-off (MWCO) cellulose
 5 ultrafilter membrane cassette. This filtration procedure can be conducted at or around
   room temperature.
                    In certain embodiments, the sample from the capture filtration step
   above is subjected to a second ion exchange separation step. Preferably this second
   ion exchange separation will involve separation based on the opposite charge of the
10 first ion exchange separation. For example, if an anion exchange step is employed
   after primary recovery, the second ion exchange chromatographic step may be a
   cation exchange step. Conversely, if the primary recovery step was followed by a
   cation exchange step, that step would be followed by an anion exchange step. In
   certain embodiments the first ion exchange eluate can be subjected directly to the
15 second ion exchange chromatographic step where the first ion exchange eluate is
   adjusted to the appropriate buffer conditions. Suitable anionic and cationic separation
   materials and conditions are described above.
                    In certain embodiments of the instant invention the sample containing
   antibodies will be further processed using a hydrophobic interaction separation step.
20 A non-limiting example of a suitable column for such a step is an 80 cm diameter x
    15 cm long column whose bed volume is about 75 L, which is packed with an
   appropriate resin used for HIC such as, but not limited to, Phenyl HP SepharoseTM
   from Amersham Biosciences, Upsala, Sweden. The flow-through preparation
   obtained from the previous anion exchange chromatography step comprising the
25 antibodies of interest can be diluted with an equal volume of around 1.7 M
   ammonium sulfate, 50 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0. This then can be subjected to
   filtration using a 0.45/0.2 pm SartoporeTM 2 bi-layer filter, or its equivalent. In certain
   embodiments, the hydrophobic chromatography procedure involves two or more
   cycles.
30                  In certain embodiments, the HIC column is first equilibrated using a
   suitable buffer. A non-limiting example of a suitable buffer is 0.85 M ammonium
   sulfate, 50 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0. One skilled in the art can vary the
   equilibrating buffer and still be within the scope of the present invention by altering
   the concentrations of the buffering agents and/or by substituting equivalent buffers.
                                             39

   In certain embodiments the column is then loaded with an anion exchange flow
   through sample and washed multiple times, e.g., three times, with an appropriate
   buffer system such as ammonium sulfate/sodium phosphate. An example of a
   suitable buffer system includes 1.1 M ammonium sulfate, 50 mM sodium phosphate
 5 buffer with a pH of around 7.0. Optionally, the column can undergo further wash
   cycles. For example, a second wash cycle can include multiple column washes, e.g.,
   one to seven times, using an appropriate buffer system. A non-limiting example of a
   suitable buffer system includes 0.85 M ammonium sulfate, 50 mM sodium phosphate,
   pH 7.0. In one aspect, the loaded column undergoes yet a third wash using an
10 appropriate buffer system. The column can be washed multiple times, e.g., one to
   three times, using a buffer system such as 1.1 M ammonium sulfate, 50 mM sodium
   phosphate at a pH around 7.0. Again, one skilled in the art can vary the buffering
   conditions and still be within the scope of the present invention.
                     The column is eluted using an appropriate elution buffer. A suitable
15 example of such an elution buffer is 0.5 M ammonium sulfate, 15 mM sodium
   phosphate at a pH around 7.0. The antibodies of interest can be detected and
   collected using a conventional spectrophotometer from the upside at 3 OD 280 nm to
   downside of peak at 3 OD 2 80 nm.
                     In certain aspects of the invention, the eluate from the hydrophobic
20 chromatography step is subjected to filtration for the removal of viral particles,
   including intact viruses, if present. A non-limiting example of a suitable filter is the
   Ultipor DV50TM filter from Pall Corporation. Other viral filters can be used in this
   filtration step and are well known to those skilled in the art. The HIC eluate is passed
   through a pre-wetted filter of about 0.1 pm and a 2 x 30-inch Ultipor DV50 TM filter
25 train at around 34 psig. In certain embodiments, following the filtration process, the
   filter is washed using, e.g., the HIC elution buffer in order to remove any antibodies
   retained in the filter housing. The filtrate can be stored in a pre-sterilized container at
   around 12"C.
                     In a certain embodiments, the filtrate from the above is again subjected
30 to ultrafiltration/diafiltration. This step is important if a practitioner's end point is to
   use the antibody in a, e.g., pharmaceutical formulation. This process, if employed,
   can facilitate the concentration of antibody, removal of buffering salts previously used
   and replace it with a particular formulation buffer. In certain embodiments,
   continuous diafiltration with multiple volumes, e.g., two volumes, of a formulation
                                                40

   buffer is performed. A non-limiting example of a suitable formulation buffer is 5 mM
   methionine, 2% mannitol, 0.5% sucrose, pH 5.9 buffer (no Tween). Upon completion
   of this diavolume exchange the antibodies are concentrated. Once a predetermined
   concentration of antibody has been achieved, then a practitioner can calculate the
 5 amount of 10% Tween that should be added to arrive at a final Tween concentration
   of about 0.005% (v/v).
                    Certain embodiments of the present invention will include further
   purification steps. Examples of additional purification procedures which can be
   performed prior to, during, or following the ion exchange chromatography method
10 include ethanol precipitation, isoelectric focusing, reverse phase HPLC,
   chromatography on silica, chromatography on heparin SepharoseTM , further anion
   exchange chromatography and/or further cation exchange chromatography,
   chromatofocusing, SDS-PAGE, ammonium sulfate precipitation, hydroxylapatite
   chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, and affinity chromatography (e.g.,
15 using protein G, an antibody, a specific substrate, ligand or antigen as the capture
   reagent).
                    In certain embodiments of the present invention, the anti-IL-12
   antibody is an IgA 1 , IgA 2, IgD, IgE, IgG 1, IgG 2 , IgG 3 , IgG 4 , or IgM isotype antibody
   comprising the heavy and light chain variable region sequences outlined in Figure 1.
20 In preferred embodiments, the anti-IL-12 antibody is an IgG 1 , IgG 2 , IgG 3 or IgG 4
   isotype antibody comprising the heavy and light chain variable region sequences
   outlined in Figure 1, more preferably the anti-IL-12 antibody is an IgG 1 antibody
   comprising the heavy and light chain variable region sequences outlined in Figure 1.
   In certain embodiments of the present invention, the anti-TNFa antibody is an IgA 1 ,
25 IgA 2 , IgD, IgE, IgG 1 , IgG 2 , IgG 3, IgG 4, or IgM isotype antibody comprising the heavy
   and light chain variable region sequences outlined in Figure 3. In preferred
   embodiments, the anti-TNFa antibody is an IgG1, IgG 2 , IgG 3 or IgG4 isotype antibody
   comprising the heavy and light chain variable region sequences outlined in Figure 3,
   more preferably the anti-TNFa antibody is an IgG 1 antibody comprising the heavy and
30 light chain variable region sequences outlined in Figure 3.
                                                   41

                     5.     Methods of Assaying Sample Purity
                            5.1     Assaying Host Cell Protein
                     The present invention also provides methods for determining the
    residual levels of host cell protein (HCP) concentration in the isolated/purified
  5 antibody composition. As described above, HCPs are desirably excluded from the
    final target substance product, e.g., the anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18 antibody.
    Exemplary HCPs include proteins originating from the source of the antibody
    production. Failure to identify and sufficiently remove HCPs from the target antibody
    may lead to reduced efficacy and/or adverse subject reactions.
10                   As used herein, the term "HCP ELISA" refers to an ELISA where the
    second antibody used in the assay is specific to the HCPs produced from cells, e.g.,
    CHO cells, used to generate the antibody (e.g., anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL-18
    antibody). The second antibody may be produced according to conventional methods
    known to those of skill in the art. For example, the second antibody may be produced
15  using HCPs obtained by sham production and purification runs, i.e., the same cell line
    used to produce the antibody of interest is used, but the cell line is not transfected
    with antibody DNA. In an exemplary embodiment, the second antibody is produced
    using HPCs similar to those expressed in the cell expression system of choice, i.e., the
    cell expression system used to produce the target antibody.
20                   Generally, HCP ELISA comprises sandwiching a liquid sample
    comprising HCPs between two layers of antibodies, i.e., a first antibody and a second
    antibody. The sample is incubated during which time the HCPs in the sample are
    captured by the first antibody, for example, but not limited to goat anti-CHO, affinity
    purified (Cygnus). A labeled second antibody, or blend of antibodies, specific to the
25  HCPs produced from the cells used to generate the antibody, e.g., anti-CHO HCP
    Biotinylated, is added, and binds to the HCPs within the sample. In certain
    embodiments the first and second antibodies are polyclonal antibodies. In certain
    aspects the first and second antibodies are blends of polyclonal antibodies raised
    against HCPs, for example, but not limited to Biotinylated goat anti Host Cell Protein
30  Mixture 599/626/748. The amount of HCP contained in the sample is determined
    using the appropriate test based on the label of the second antibody.
                                               42

                   HCP ELISA may be used for determining the level of HCPs in an
   antibody composition, such as an eluate or flow-through obtained using the process
   described above. The present invention also provides a composition comprising an
   antibody, wherein the composition has no detectable level of HCPs as determined by
 5 an HCP Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay ("ELISA").
                           5.2      Assaying Affinity Chromatographic Material
                   In certain embodiments, the present invention also provides methods
   for determining the residual levels of affinity chromatographic material in the
10 isolated/purified antibody composition. In certain contexts such material leaches into
   the antibody composition during the purification process. In certain embodiments, an
   assay for identifying the concentration of Protein A in the isolated/purified antibody
   composition is employed. As used herein, the term "Protein A ELISA" refers to an
   ELISA where the second antibody used in the assay is specific to the Protein A
15 employed to purify the antibody of interest, e.g., an anti-IL-12, anti-TNFa, or anti-IL
    18 antibody.   The second antibody may be produced according to conventional
   methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, the second antibody may be
   produced using naturally occurring or recombinant Protein A in the context of
   conventional methods for antibody generation and production.
20                 Generally, Protein A ELISA comprises sandwiching a liquid sample
   comprising Protein A (or possibly containing Protein A) between two layers of anti
   Protein A antibodies, i.e., a first anti-Protein A antibody and a second anti-Protein A
   antibody. The sample is exosed to a first layer of anti-Protein A antibody, for
   example, but not limited to polyclonal antibodies or blends of polyclonal antibodies,
25 and incubated for a time sufficient for Protein A in the sample to be captured by the
   first antibody. A labeled second antibody, for example, but not limited to polyclonal
   antibodies or blends of polyclonal antibodies, specific to the Protein A is then added,
   and binds to the captured Protein A within the sample. Additional non-limiting
   examples of anti-Protein A antibodies useful in the context of the instant invention
30 include chicken anti-Protein A and biotinylated anti-Protein A antibodies. The
   amount of Protein A contained in the sample is determined using the appropriate test
   based on the label of the second antibody. Similar assays can be employed to identify
   the concentration of alternative affinity chromatographic materials.
                                               43

                   Protein A ELISA may be used for determining the level of Protein A in
    an antibody composition, such as an eluate or flow-through obtained using the process
    described in above. The present invention also provides a composition comprising an
    antibody, wherein the composition has no detectable level of Protein A as determined
 5 by an Protein A Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay ("ELISA").
                   6.      Further Modifications
                   The antibodies of the present invention can be modified. In some
   embodiments, the antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof are chemically
10 modified to provide a desired effect. For example, pegylation of antibodies or
   antibody fragments of the invention may be carried out by any of the pegylation
   reactions known in the art, as described, e.g., in the following references: Focus on
   Growth Factors 3:4-10 (1992); EP 0 154 316; and EP 0 401 384, each of which is
   incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In one aspect, the pegylation is
15 carried out via an acylation reaction or an alkylation reaction with a reactive
   polyethylene glycol molecule (or an analogous reactive water-soluble polymer). A
   suitable water-soluble polymer for pegylation of the antibodies and antibody
   fragments of the invention is polyethylene glycol (PEG). As used herein,
   "polyethylene glycol" is meant to encompass any of the forms of PEG that have been
20 used to derivatize other proteins, such as mono (Cl-ClO) alkoxy- or aryloxy
   polyethylene glycol.
                   Methods for preparing pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments of
   the invention will generally comprise the steps of (a) reacting the antibody or
   antibody fragment with polyethylene glycol, such as a reactive ester or aldehyde
25 derivative of PEG, under suitable conditions whereby the antibody or antibody
   fragment becomes attached to one or more PEG groups, and (b) obtaining the reaction
   products. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art to select the optimal
   reaction conditions or the acylation reactions based on known parameters and the
   desired result.
30                 Pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments specific for IL-12, TNFa,
   or IL- 18 may generally be used to treat IL- 12-related, TNFa-related, or IL-18-related
   disorders of the invention by administration of the anti-IL- 12, anti-TNFa or anti-IL
   18 antibodies and antibody fragments described herein. Generally the pegylated
                                            44

    antibodies and antibody fragments have increased half-life, as compared to the
   nonpegylated antibodies and antibody fragments. The pegylated antibodies and
    antibody fragments may be employed alone, together, or in combination with other
   pharmaceutical compositions.
 5                 An antibody or antibody portion of the invention can be derivatized or
   linked to another functional molecule (e.g., another peptide or protein). Accordingly,
   the antibodies and antibody portions of the invention are intended to include
   derivatized and otherwise modified forms of the human anti-hIL-12, anti-TNFa, or
   anti-hIL-18 antibodies described herein, including immunoadhesion molecules. For
10 example, an antibody or antibody portion of the invention can be functionally linked
   (by chemical coupling, genetic fusion, noncovalent association or otherwise) to one or
   more other molecular entities, such as another antibody (e.g., a bispecific antibody or
   a diabody), a detectable agent, a cytotoxic agent, a pharmaceutical agent, and/or a
   protein or peptide that can mediate associate of the antibody or antibody portion with
15 another molecule (such as a streptavidin core region or a polyhistidine tag).
                   One type of derivatized antibody is produced by crosslinking two or
   more antibodies (of the same type or of different types, e.g., to create bispecific
   antibodies). Suitable crosslinkers include those that are heterobifunctional, having
   two distinctly reactive groups separated by an appropriate spacer (e.g., m
20 maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide ester) or homobifunctional (e.g.,
   disuccinimidyl suberate). Such linkers are available from Pierce Chemical Company,
   Rockford, IL.
                   Useful detectable agents with which an antibody or antibody portion of
   the invention may be derivatized include fluorescent compounds. Exemplary
25 fluorescent detectable agents include fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocyanate,
   rhodamine, 5-dimethylamine-1-napthalenesulfonyl chloride, phycoerythrin and the
   like. An antibody may also be derivatized with detectable enzymes, such as alkaline
   phosphatase, horseradish peroxidase, glucose oxidase and the like. When an antibody
   is derivatized with a detectable enzyme, it is detected by adding additional reagents
30 that the enzyme uses to produce a detectable reaction product. For example, when the
   detectable agent horseradish peroxidase is present, the addition of hydrogen peroxide
   and diaminobenzidine leads to a colored reaction product, which is detectable. An
   antibody may also be derivatized with biotin, and detected through indirect
   measurement of avidin or streptavidin binding.
                                           45

                     7.      Pharmaceutical Compositions
                     The antibodies and antibody-portions of the invention can be
     incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration to a
  5  subject. Typically, the pharmaceutical composition comprises an antibody or
     antibody portion of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used
    herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any and all solvents, dispersion
    media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying
     agents, and the like that are physiologically compatible. Examples of
10  pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include one or more of water, saline, phosphate
    buffered saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol and the like, as well as combinations
    thereof. In many cases, it is desirable to include isotonic agents, e.g., sugars,
    polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or sodium chloride in the composition.
    Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may further comprise minor amounts of
15  auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, preservatives or buffers,
    which enhance the shelf life or effectiveness of the antibody or antibody portion.
                     The antibodies and antibody-portions of the invention can be
    incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition suitable for parenteral administration.
    The antibody or antibody-portions can be prepared as an injectable solution
20  containing, e.g., 0.1-250 mg/mL antibody. The injectable solution can be composed
    of either a liquid or lyophilized dosage form in a flint or amber vial, ampule or pre
    filled syringe. The buffer can be L-histidine approximately 1-50 mM, (optimally 5-10
    mM), at pH 5.0 to 7.0 (optimally pH 6.0). Other suitable buffers include but are not
    limited to sodium succinate, sodium citrate, sodium phosphate or potassium
25  phosphate. Sodium chloride can be used to modify the toxicity of the solution at a
    concentration of 0-300 mM (optimally 150 mM for a liquid dosage form).
    Cryoprotectants can be included for a lyophilized dosage form, principally 0-10%
    sucrose (optimally 0.5-1.0%). Other suitable cryoprotectants include trehalose and
    lactose. Bulking agents can be included for a lyophilized dosage form, principally 1
30  10% mannitol (optimally 24%). Stabilizers can be used in both liquid and lyophilized
    dosage forms, principally 1-50 mM L-methionine (optimally 5-10 mM). Other
    suitable bulking agents include glycine, arginine, can be included as 0-0.05%
                                              46

     polysorbate-80 (optimally 0.005-0.01%). Additional surfactants include but are not
     limited to polysorbate 20 and BRIJ surfactants.
                      In one aspect, the pharmaceutical composition includes the antibody at
     a dosage of about 0.01 mg/kg-10 mg/kg. In another aspect, the dosages of the
  5  antibody include approximately 1 mg/kg administered every other week, or
     approximately 0.3 mg/kg administered weekly. A skilled practitioner can ascertain
    the proper dosage and regime for administering to a subject.
                      The compositions of this invention may be in a variety of forms.
     These include, e.g., liquid, semi-solid and solid dosage forms, such as liquid solutions
 10  (e.g., injectable and infusible solutions), dispersions or suspensions, tablets, pills,
    powders, liposomes and suppositories. The form depends on, e.g., the intended mode
    of administration and therapeutic application. Typical compositions are in the form of
    injectable or infusible solutions, such as compositions similar to those used for
    passive immunization of humans with other antibodies. One mode of administration
15  is parenteral (e.g., intravenous, subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, intramuscular). In one
    aspect, the antibody is administered by intravenous infusion or injection. In another
    aspect, the antibody is administered by intramuscular or subcutaneous injection.
                      Therapeutic compositions typically must be sterile and stable under the
    conditions of manufacture and storage. The composition can be formulated as a
20  solution, microemulsion, dispersion, liposome, or other ordered structure suitable to
    high drug concentration. Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating
    the active compound (i.e., antibody or antibody portion) in the required amount in an
    appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above, as
    required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by
25  incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic
    dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above.
    In the case of sterile, lyophilized powders for the preparation of sterile injectable
    solutions, the methods of preparation are vacuum drying and spray-drying that yields
    a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a
30  previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. The proper fluidity of a solution can be
    maintained, e.g., by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the
    required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants.
    Prolonged absorption of injectable compositions can be brought about by including in
    the composition an agent that delays absorption, e.g., monostearate salts and gelatin.
                                               47

                    The antibodies and antibody-portions of the present invention can be
    administered by a variety of methods known in the art, one route/mode of
    administration is subcutaneous injection, intravenous injection or infusion. As will be
    appreciated by the skilled artisan, the route and/or mode of administration will vary
 5  depending upon the desired results. In certain embodiments, the active compound
   may be prepared with a carrier that will protect the compound against rapid release,
    such as a controlled release formulation, including implants, transdermal patches, and
   microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be
    used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen,
10 polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Many methods for the preparation of such
    formulations are patented or generally known to those skilled in the art. See, e.g.,
    Sustained and Controlled Release Drug Delivery Systems, J. R. Robinson, ed., Marcel
   Dekker, Inc., New York, 1978, the entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
15                  In certain aspects, an antibody or antibody portion of the invention
   may be orally administered, e.g., with an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier.
   The compound (and other ingredients, if desired) may also be enclosed in a hard or
   soft shell gelatin capsule, compressed into tablets, or incorporated directly into the
   subject's diet. For oral therapeutic administration, the compounds may be
20 incorporated with excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tablets,
   troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers, and the like. To administer a
   compound of the invention by other than parenteral administration, it may be
   necessary to coat the compound with, or co-administer the compound with, a material
   to prevent its inactivation.
25                  Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the
   compositions. In certain aspects, an antibody or antibody portion of the invention is
   co-formulated with and/or co-administered with one or more additional therapeutic
   agents that are useful for treating disorders in which IL- 12, TNFa, or IL- 18 activity is
   detrimental. For example, an anti-hIL-12, anti-TNFa or anti-IL-18 antibody or
30 antibody portion of the invention may be co-formulated and/or co-administered with
   one or more additional antibodies that bind other targets (e.g., antibodies that bind
   other cytokines or that bind cell surface molecules). Furthermore, one or more
   antibodies of the invention may be used in combination with two or more of the
   foregoing therapeutic agents. Such combination therapies may advantageously utilize
                                              48

     lower dosages of the administered therapeutic agents, thus avoiding possible toxicities
     or complications associated with the various monotherapies. It will be appreciated by
     the skilled practitioner that when the antibodies of the invention are used as part of a
     combination therapy, a lower dosage of antibody may be desirable than when the
  5  antibody alone is administered to a subject (e.g., a synergistic therapeutic effect may
     be achieved through the use of combination therapy which, in turn, permits use of a
     lower dose of the antibody to achieve the desired therapeutic effect).
                     It should be understood that the antibodies of the invention or antigen
     binding portion thereof can be used alone or in combination with an additional agent,
10   e.g., a therapeutic agent, said additional agent being selected by the skilled artisan for
     its intended purpose. For example, the additional agent can be a therapeutic agent art
     recognized as being useful to treat the disease or condition being treated by the
     antibody of the present invention. The additional agent also can be an agent which
     imparts a beneficial attribute to the therapeutic composition, e.g., an agent which
15   effects the viscosity of the composition.
                     It should further be understood that the combinations which are to be
     included within this invention are those combinations useful for their intended
     purpose. The agents set forth below are illustrative and not intended to be limited.
     The combinations which are part of this invention can be the antibodies of the present
20   invention and at least one additional agent selected from the lists below. The
     combination can also include more than one additional agent, e.g., two or three
     additional agents if the combination is such that the formed composition can perform
    its intended function.
                     Some combinations are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug(s) also
25  referred to as NSAIDS which include drugs like ibuprofen. Other combinations are
    corticosteroids including prednisolone; the well known side-effects of steroid use can
    be reduced or even eliminated by tapering the steroid dose required when treating
    patients in combination with the antibodies of this invention. Non-limiting examples
    of therapeutic agents for rheumatoid arthritis with which an antibody, or antibody
30  portion, of the invention can be combined to include the following: cytokine
    suppressive anti-inflammatory drug(s) (CSAIDs); antibodies to or antagonists of other
    human cytokines or growth factors, for example, TNF, LT, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, IL-7, IL
    8, IL-15, IL-16, IL-18, EMAP-II, GM-CSF, FGF, and PDGF. Antibodies of the
    invention, or antigen binding portions thereof, can be combined with antibodies to cell
                                               49

     surface molecules such as CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD40, CD45,
     CD69, CD80 (B7.1), CD86 (B7.2), CD90, or their ligands including CD 154 (gp39 or
     CD40L).
                     Some combinations of therapeutic agents may interfere at different
  5 points in the autoimmune and subsequent inflammatory cascade; examples include
     TNF antagonists like chimeric, humanized or human TNF antibodies, D2E7, (U.S.
     application Ser. No. 08/599,226 filed Feb. 9, 1996, the entire teaching of which is
     incorporated herein by reference), cA2 (RemicadeTM), CDP 571, anti-TNF antibody
     fragments (e.g., CDP870), and soluble p55 or p75 TNF receptors, derivatives thereof,
10   (p75TNFRIgG (EnbrelTM ) or p55TNFRlgG (Lenercept), soluble IL-13 receptor (sIL
     13), and also TNFa converting enzyme (TACE) inhibitors; similarly IL-I inhibitors
    (e.g., Interleukin- 1-converting enzyme inhibitors, such as Vx740, or IL-1 RA, etc.)
    may be effective for the same reason. Other combinations include Interleukin 11,
    anti-P7s and p-selectin glycoprotein ligand (PSGL). Yet other combinations involve
15  other key players of the autoimmune response which may act parallel to, dependent
    on or in concert with IL- 12 function; especially included are IL- 18 antagonists
    including IL- 18 antibodies or soluble IL- 18 receptors, or IL-18 binding proteins. It
    has been shown that IL-12 and IL-18 have overlapping but distinct functions and a
    combination of antagonists to both may be most effective. Yet another combination
20  includes non-depleting anti-CD4 inhibitors. Yet other combinations include
    antagonists of the co-stimulatory pathway CD80 (B7.1) or CD86 (B7.2) including
    antibodies, soluble receptors or antagonistic ligands.
                     The antibodies of the invention, or antigen binding portions thereof,
    may also be combined with agents, such as methotrexate, 6-MP, azathioprine
25  sulphasalazine, mesalazine, olsalazine chloroquinine/hydroxychloroquine,
    pencillamine, aurothiomalate (intramuscular and oral), azathioprine, cochicine,
    corticosteroids (oral, inhaled and local injection), p-2 adrenoreceptor agonists
    (salbutamol, terbutaline, salmeteral), xanthines (theophylline, aminophylline),
    cromoglycate, nedocromil, ketotifen, ipratropium and oxitropium, cyclosporin,
30  FK506, rapamycin, mycophenolate mofetil, leflunomide, NSAIDs, for example,
    ibuprofen, corticosteroids such as prednisolone, phosphodiesterase inhibitors,
    adensosine agonists, antithrombotic agents, complement inhibitors, adrenergic agents,
    agents which interfere with signalling by proinflammatory cytokines such as TNFa or
    IL-1 (e.g., IRAK, NIK, IKK, p38 or MAP kinase inhibitors), IL-1p converting
                                              50

   enzyme inhibitors (e.g., Vx740), anti-P7s, p-selectin glycoprotein ligand (PSGL),
   TNFa converting enzyme (TACE) inhibitors, T-cell signaling inhibitors such as
   kinase inhibitors, metalloproteinase inhibitors, sulfasalazine, azathioprine, 6
   mercaptopurines, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, soluble cytokine
 5 receptors and derivatives thereof (e.g., soluble p55 or p75 TNF receptors and the
   derivatives p75TNFRIgG (Enbrel.TM.)and p55TNFRIgG (Lenercept), sIL-1 RI, sIL
    1RII, sIL-6R, soluble IL- 13 receptor (sIL- 13)) and anti-inflammatory cytokines (e.g.,
   IL-4, IL-0, IL-l, IL-13 and TGFp). Some combinations include methotrexate or
   leflunomide and in moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis cases, cyclosporine.
10                  Non-limiting examples of therapeutic agents for inflammatory bowel
   disease with which an antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention can be
   combined include the following: budenoside, epidermal growth factor,
   corticosteroids, cyclosporin, sulfasalazine, aminosalicylates, 6-mercaptopurine,
   azathioprine, metronidazole, lipoxygenase inhibitors, mesalamine, olsalazine,
15 balsalazide, antioxidants, thromboxane inhibitors, IL-1 receptor antagonists, anti-IL
    1a monoclonal antibodies, anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibodies, growth factors, elastase
   inhibitors, pyridinyl-imidazole compounds, antibodies to or antagonists of other
   human cytokines or growth factors, e.g., TNF, LT, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-15,
   IL-16, IL-18, EMAP-II, GM-CSF, FGF, and PDGF. Antibodies of the invention, or
20 antigen binding portions thereof, can be combined with antibodies to cell surface
   molecules such as CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD40, CD45, CD69,
   CD90 or their ligands. The antibodies of the invention, or antigen binding portions
   thereof, may also be combined with agents, such as methotrexate, cyclosporin,
   FK506, rapamycin, mycophenolate mofetil, leflunomide, NSAIDs, e.g., ibuprofen,
25 corticosteroids such as prednisolone, phosphodiesterase inhibitors, adenosine
   agonists, antithrombotic agents, complement inhibitors, adrenergic agents, agents
   which interfere with signaling by proinflammatory cytokines such as TNFa or IL-I
   (e.g., IRAK, NIK, IKK, p38 or MAP kinase inhibitors), IL-1p converting enzyme
   inhibitors (e.g., Vx740), anti-P7s, p-selectin glycoprotein ligand (PSGL), TNFa
30 converting enzyme inhibitors, T-cell signaling inhibitors such as kinase inhibitors,
   metalloproteinase inhibitors, sulfasalazine, azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurines,
   angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, soluble cytokine receptors and derivatives
   thereof (e.g., soluble p55 or p75 TNF receptors, sIL-1RI, sIL-lRII, sIL-6R, soluble
                                             51

   IL- 13 receptor (sIL- 13)) and anti-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-4, IL- 10, IL-l l,
   IL-13 and TGFp).
                   Examples of therapeutic agents for Crohn's disease in which an
   antibody or an antigen binding portion can be combined include the following: TNF
 5 antagonists, e.g., anti-TNF antibodies, D2E7 (U.S. application Ser. No. 08/599,226,
   filed Feb. 9, 1996, the entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference),
   cA2 (Remicade TM ), CDP 571, anti-TNF antibody fragments (e.g., CDP870), TNFR-Ig
   constructs(p75TNFRIgG (Enbrel TM ) and p55TNFRIgG (Lenercept)), anti-P7s, p
   selectin glycoprotein ligand (PSGL), soluble IL- 13 receptor (sIL- 13), and PDE4
10 inhibitors. Antibodies of the invention or antigen binding portions thereof, can be
   combined with corticosteroids, e.g., budenoside and dexamethasone. Antibodies of
   the invention or antigen binding portions thereof, may also be combined with agents
   such as sulfasalazine, 5-aminosalicylic acid and olsalazine, and agents which interfere
   with synthesis or action of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, e.g., IL-1
15 converting enzyme inhibitors (e.g., Vx740) and IL-Ira. Antibodies of the invention or
   antigen binding portion thereof may also be used with T cell signaling inhibitors, e.g.,
   tyrosine kinase inhibitors 6-mercaptopurines. Antibodies of the invention or antigen
   binding portions thereof, can be combined with IL-11.
                   Non-limiting examples of therapeutic agents for multiple sclerosis with
20 which an antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention can be combined include the
   following: corticosteroids, prednisolone, methylprednisolone, azathioprine,
   cyclophosphamide, cyclosporine, methotrexate, 4-aminopyridine, tizanidine, IFNpla
   (Avonex; Biogen), IFNplb (Betaseron; Chiron/Berlex), Copolymer 1 (Cop-1,
   Copaxone, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc.), hyperbaric oxygen, intravenous
25 immunoglobulin, clabribine, antibodies to or antagonists of other human cytokines or
   growth factors, e.g., TNF, LT, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-15, IL-16, IL-18,
   EMAP-II, GM-CSF, FGF, and PDGF. Antibodies of the invention, or antigen
   binding portions thereof, can be combined with antibodies to cell surface molecules
   such as CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD40, CD45, CD69, CD80,
30 CD86, CD90 or their ligands. The antibodies of the invention, or antigen binding
   portions thereof, may also be combined with agents, such as methotrexate,
   cyclosporine, FK506, rapamycin, mycophenolate mofetil, leflunomide, NSAIDs, e.g.,
   ibuprofen, corticosteroids such as prednisolone, phosphodiesterase inhibitors,
   adensosine agonists, antithrombotic agents, complement inhibitors, adrenergic agents,
                                             52

   agents which interfere with signaling by proinflammatory cytokines such as TNFa or
   IL-1 (e.g., IRAK, NIK, IKK, p38 or MAP kinase inhibitors), IL-1I3 converting
   enzyme inhibitors (e.g., Vx740), anti-P7s, p-selectin glycoprotein ligand (PSGL),
   TACE inhibitors, T-cell signaling inhibitors such as kinase inhibitors,
 5 metalloproteinase inhibitors, sulfasalazine, azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurines,
   angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, soluble cytokine receptors and derivatives
   thereof (e.g., soluble p55 or p75 TNF receptors, sIL-1 RI, sIL-1 RII, sIL-6R, soluble
   IL- 13 receptor (sIL-13)) and anti-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-4, IL-10, IL-13 and
   TGFp).
10                 Examples of therapeutic agents for multiple sclerosis in which the
   antibody or antigen binding portion thereof can be combined to include IFNs, e.g.,
   IFNpla and IFN lb, copaxone, corticosteroids, IL-I inhibitors, TNF inhibitors, and
   antibodies to CD40 ligand and CD80.
                   The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include a
15 "therapeutically effective amount" or a "prophylactically effective amount" of an
   antibody or antibody portion of the invention. A "therapeutically effective amount"
   refers to an amount effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary, to achieve
   the desired therapeutic result. A therapeutically effective amount of the antibody or
   antibody portion may vary according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex, and
20 weight of the individual, and the ability of the antibody or antibody portion to elicit a
   desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in
   which any toxic or detrimental effects of the antibody or antibody portion are
   outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A "prophylactically effective
   amount" refers to an amount effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary, to
25 achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically, since a prophylactic dose is used in
   subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease, the prophylactically effective amount
   will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.
                   Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum desired
   response (e.g., a therapeutic or prophylactic response). For example, a single bolus
30 may be administered, several divided doses may be administered over time or the
   dose may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the
   therapeutic situation. In certain embodiments it is especially advantageous to
   formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and
   uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete
                                             53

   units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian subjects to be treated; each unit
   comprising a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the
   desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The
   specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly
 5 dependent on (a) the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular
   therapeutic or prophylactic effect to be achieved, and (b) the limitations inherent in
   the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of sensitivity in
   individuals.
                    An exemplary, non-limiting range for a therapeutically or
10 prophylactically effective amount of an antibody or antibody portion of the invention
   is 0.01-20 mg/kg, or 1-10 mg/kg, or 0.3-1 mg/kg. It is to be noted that dosage values
   may vary with the type and severity of the condition to be alleviated. It is to be
   further understood that for any particular subject, specific dosage regimens should be
   adjusted over time according to the individual need and the professional judgment of
15 the person administering or supervising the administration of the compositions, and
   that dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and are not intended to limit
   the scope or practice of the claimed composition.
                    8.      Uses of the Antibodies of the Invention
20                          8.1.   Anti-IL-12 Antibody Uses Generally
                    Given their ability to bind to IL-12, the anti-IL-12 antibodies, or
   portions thereof, of the invention can be used to detect IL-12, in one aspect, hIL-12
   (e.g., in a sample matrix, in one aspect, a biological sample, such as serum or plasma),
   using a conventional immunoassay, such as an enzyme linked immunosorbent assays
25 (ELISA), an radioimmunoassay (RIA) or tissue immunohistochemistry. The
   invention provides a method for detecting IL- 12 in a biological sample comprising
   contacting a sample with an antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention and
   detecting either the antibody (or antibody portion) bound to IL-12 or unbound
   antibody (or antibody portion), to thereby detect IL- 12 in the sample. The antibody is
30 directly or indirectly labeled with a detectable substance to facilitate detection of the
   bound or unbound antibody. Suitable detectable substances include various enzymes,
   prosthetic groups, fluorescent materials, luminescent materials and radioactive
                                              54

   materials. Examples of suitable enzymes include horseradish peroxidase, alkaline
   phosphatase, p-galactosidase, or acetylcholinesterase; examples of suitable prosthetic
    group complexes include streptavidin/biotin and avidin/biotin; examples of suitable
    fluorescent materials include umbelliferone, fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocyanate,
 5 rhodamine, dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein, dansyl chloride or phycoerythrin; an
    example of a luminescent material includes luminol; and examples of suitable
   radioactive material include 125 I, 131 I, 35 S, or 3 H. Detection of IL-12 in a sample
   may be useful in a diagnostic context, for example in the diagnosis of a condition
   associated with increased IL- 12, and/or may be useful in identifying a subject who
10 may benefit from treatment with an anti-IL-12 antibody.
                    Alternative to labeling the antibody, IL- 12 can be assayed in a sample
   by a competition immunoassay utilizing, e.g., rhIL-12 standards labeled with a
   detectable substance and an unlabeled anti-IL- 12 antibody, such as an anti-hIL- 12
   antibody. In this assay, the sample, the labeled rhIL-12 standards, and the anti-hIL-12
15 antibody are combined and the amount of labeled rhIL-12 standard bound to the
   unlabeled antibody is determined. The amount of hIL- 12 in the sample is inversely
   proportional to the amount of labeled rhIL- 12 standard bound to the anti-hIL- 12
   antibody.
                    The antibodies and antibody portions of the invention are capable of
20 neutralizing IL- 12 activity in vitro and in vivo, in one aspect, a hIL- 12 activity.
   Accordingly, the antibodies and antibody portions of the invention can be used to
   inhibit IL- 12 activity, e.g., in a cell culture containing IL- 12, in human subjects or in
   other mammalian subjects having IL-12 with which an antibody of the invention
   cross-reacts (e.g., primates such as baboon, cynomolgus and rhesus). In a one aspect,
25 the invention provides an isolated human antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof,
   that neutralizes the activity of human IL-12, and at least one additional primate IL-12
   selected from the group consisting of baboon IL-12, marmoset IL-12, chimpanzee IL
   12, cynomolgus IL- 12 and rhesus IL- 12, but which does not neutralize the activity of
   the mouse IL-12. In one aspect, the IL-12 is human IL-12. For example, in a cell
30 culture containing, or suspected of containing hIL-12, an antibody or antibody portion
   of the invention can be added to the culture medium to inhibit hIL- 12 activity in the
   culture.
                    In another aspect, the invention provides a method for inhibiting IL- 12
   activity in a subject suffering from a disorder in which IL-12 activity is detrimental.
                                                55

   IL- 12 has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of disorders
   (Windhagen et al., (1995) J. Exp. Med. 182: 1985-1996; Morita et al. (1998) Arthritis
   and Rheumatism. 41: 306-314; Bucht et al., (1996) Clin. Exp. Immunol. 103: 347
   367; Fais et al. (1994) J. Interferon Res. 14:235-238; Pyrronchi et al., (1997) Am. J.
 5 Path. 150:823-832; Monteleone et al., (1997) Gastroenterology. 112:1169-1178, and
   Berrebi et al., (1998) Am. J. Path 152:667-672; Pyrronchi et al. (1997) Am. J. Path.
    150:823-832, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference). The
   invention provides methods for inhibiting IL-12 activity in a subject suffering from
   such a disorder, which method comprises administering to the subject an antibody or
10 antibody portion of the invention such that IL-12 activity in the subject is inhibited.
   In one aspect, the IL- 12 is human IL- 12 and the subject is a human subject.
   Alternatively, the subject can be a mammal expressing IL-12 with which an antibody
   of the invention cross-reacts. Still further the subject can be a mammal into which has
   been introduced hIL-12 (e.g., by administration of hIL-12 or by expression of an hIL
15  12 transgene). An antibody of the invention can be administered to a human subject
   for therapeutic purposes. Moreover, an antibody of the invention can be administered
   to a non-human mammal expressing a IL-12 with which the antibody cross-reacts for
   veterinary purposes or as an animal model of human disease. Regarding the latter,
   such animal models may be useful for evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of
20 antibodies of the invention (e.g., testing of dosages and time courses of
   administration).
                    As used herein, the phrase "a disorder in which IL- 12 activity is
   detrimental" is intended to include diseases and other disorders in which the presence
   of IL- 12 in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is suspected
25 of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor that
   contributes to a worsening of the disorder. Accordingly, a disorder in which IL- 12
   activity is detrimental is a disorder in which inhibition of IL- 12 activity is expected to
   alleviate the symptoms and/or progression of the disorder. Such disorders may be
   evidenced, e.g., by an increase in the concentration of IL-12 in a biological fluid of a
30 subject suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of IL-12 in
   serum, plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject), which can be detected, e.g., using
   an anti-IL-12 antibody as described above. There are numerous examples of
   disorders in which IL-12 activity is detrimental. In one aspect, the antibodies or
   antigen binding portions thereof, can be used in therapy to treat the diseases or
                                             56

   disorders described herein. In another aspect, the antibodies or antigen binding
   portions thereof, can be used for the manufacture of a medicine for treating the
   diseases or disorders described herein. The use of the antibodies and antibody
   portions of the invention in the treatment of a few non-limiting specific disorders is
 5 discussed further below.
                   Interleukin 12 plays a critical role in the pathology associated with a
   variety of diseases involving immune and inflammatory elements. These diseases
   include, but are not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, juvenile chronic
   arthritis, Lyme arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, reactive arthritis, spondyloarthropathy,
10 systemic lupus erythematosus, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, inflammatory bowel
   disease, insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, thyroiditis, asthma, allergic diseases,
   psoriasis, dermatitis scleroderma, atopic dermatitis, graft versus host disease, organ
   transplant rejection, acute or chronic immune disease associated with organ
   transplantation, sarcoidosis, atherosclerosis, disseminated intravascular coagulation,
15 Kawasaki's disease, Grave's disease, nephrotic syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome,
   Wegener's granulomatosis, Henoch-Schoenlein purpurea, microscopic vasculitis of
   the kidneys, chronic active hepatitis, uveitis, septic shock, toxic shock syndrome,
   sepsis syndrome, cachexia, infectious diseases, parasitic diseases, acquired
   immunodeficiency syndrome, acute transverse myelitis, Huntington's chorea,
20 Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, primary biliary cirrhosis, hemolytic
   anemia, malignancies, heart failure, myocardial infarction, Addison's disease,
   sporadic, polyglandular deficiency type I and polyglandular deficiency type II,
   Schmidt's syndrome, adult (acute) respiratory distress syndrome, alopecia, alopecia
   areata, seronegative arthopathy, arthropathy, Reiter's disease, psoriatic arthropathy,
25 ulcerative colitic arthropathy, enteropathic synovitis, chlamydia, yersinia and
   salmonella associated arthropathy, spondyloarthopathy, atheromatous
   disease/arteriosclerosis, atopic allergy, autoimmune bullous disease, pemphigus
   vulgaris, pemphigus foliaceus, pemphigoid, linear IgA disease, autoimmune
   haemolytic anemia, Coombs positive haemolytic anaemia, acquired pernicious
30 anemia, juvenile pernicious anaemia, myalgic encephalitis/Royal Free Disease,
   chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, giant cell arteritis, primary sclerosing hepatitis,
   cryptogenic autoimmune hepatitis, Acquired Immunodeficiency Disease Syndrome,
   Acquired Immunodeficiency Related Diseases, Hepatitis C, common varied
   immunodeficiency (common variable hypogammaglobulinaemia), dilated
                                              57

   cardiomyopathy, female infertility, ovarian failure, premature ovarian failure, fibrotic
   lung disease, cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis, post-inflammatory interstitial lung
   disease, interstitial pneumonitis, connective tissue disease associated interstitial lung
   disease, mixed connective tissue disease associated lung disease, systemic sclerosis
 5 associated interstitial lung disease, rheumatoid arthritis associated interstitial lung
   disease, systemic lupus erythematosus associated lung disease,
   dermatomyositis/polymyositis associated lung disease, Sjodgren's disease associated
   lung disease, ankylosing spondylitis associated lung disease, vasculitic diffuse lung
   disease, haemosiderosis associated lung disease, drug-induced interstitial lung
10 disease, radiation fibrosis, bronchiolitis obliterans, chronic eosinophilic pneumonia,
   lymphocytic infiltrative lung disease, postinfectious interstitial lung disease, gouty
   arthritis, autoimmune hepatitis, type-i autoimmune hepatitis (classical autoimmune or
   lupoid hepatitis), type-2 autoimmune hepatitis (anti-LKM antibody hepatitis),
   autoimmune mediated hypoglycemia, type B insulin resistance with acanthosis
15 nigricans, hypoparathyroidism, acute immune disease associated with organ
   transplantation, chronic immune disease associated with organ transplantation,
   osteoarthrosis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, idiopathic leucopenia, autoimmune
   neutropenia, renal disease NOS, glomerulonephritides, microscopic vasulitis of the
   kidneys, lyme disease, discoid lupus erythematosus, male infertility idiopathic or
20 NOS, sperm autoimmunity, multiple sclerosis (all subtypes), insulin-dependent
   diabetes mellitus, sympathetic ophthalmia, pulmonary hypertension secondary to
   connective tissue disease, Goodpasture's syndrome, pulmonary manifestation of
   polyarteritis nodosa, acute rheumatic fever, rheumatoid spondylitis, Still's disease,
   systemic sclerosis, Takayasu's disease/arteritis, autoimmune thrombocytopenia,
25 idiopathic thrombocytopenia, autoimmune thyroid disease, hyperthyroidism, goitrous
   autoimmune hypothyroidism (Hashimoto's disease), atrophic autoimmune
   hypothyroidism, primary myxoedema, phacogenic uveitis, primary vasculitis and
   vitiligo. The human antibodies, and antibody portions of the invention can be used to
   treat autoimmune diseases, in particular those associated with inflammation,
30 including, rheumatoid spondylitis, allergy, autoimmune diabetes, and autoimmune
   uveitis.
                    In certain aspects, the antibodies of the invention or antigen-binding
   portions thereof, are used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, multiple
   sclerosis, insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and psoriasis.
                                              58

                             8.2    Use of Anti-IL-12 Antibody in Rheumatoid Arthritis
                     Interleukin-12 has been implicated in playing a role in inflammatory
    diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. Inducible IL-12p40 message has been detected
 5  in synovia from rheumatoid arthritis patients and IL-12 has been shown to be present
    in the synovial fluids from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (see, e.g., Morita et al.,
    (1998) Arthritis and Rheumatism 41: 306-314, the entire teaching of which is
    incorporated herein by reference). IL-12 positive cells have been found to be present
    in the sublining layer of the rheumatoid arthritis synovium. The human antibodies,
10  and antibody portions of the invention can be used to treat, e.g., rheumatoid arthritis,
   juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, Lyme arthritis, rheumatoid spondylitis, osteoarthritis
    and gouty arthritis. Typically, the antibody, or antibody portion, is administered
    systemically, although for certain disorders, local administration of the antibody or
    antibody portion may be beneficial. An antibody, or antibody portion, of the
15  invention also can be administered with one or more additional therapeutic agents
    useful in the treatment of autoinimune diseases.
                     In the collagen induced arthritis (CIA) murine model for rheumatoid
    arthritis, treatment of mice with an anti-IL- 12 mAb (rat anti-mouse IL- 12 monoclonal
    antibody, C17.15) prior to arthritis profoundly suppressed the onset, and reduced the
20  incidence and severity of disease. Treatment with the anti-IL-12 mAb early after
    onset of arthritis reduced severity, but later treatment of the mice with the anti-IL-12
   mAb after the onset of disease had minimal effect on disease severity.
                             8.3    Use of Anti-IL-12 Antibody in Crohn's Disease
25                   Interleukin-12 also plays a role in the inflammatory bowel disease,
    Crohn's disease. Increased expression of IFN-y and IL-12 occurs in the intestinal
   mucosa of patients with Crohn's disease (see, e.g., Fais et al., (1994) J. Interferon Res.
    14: 235-238; Pyrronchi et al., (1997) Amer. J. Pathol. 150: 823-832; Monteleone et
    al., (1997) Gastroenterology 112: 1169-1178; Berrebi et al., (1998) Amer. J. Pathol.
30  152: 667-672, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference).
   Anti-IL-12 antibodies have been shown to suppress disease in mouse models of
   colitis, e.g., TNBS induced colitis IL-2 knockout mice, and recently in IL-10 knock
                                              59

    out mice. Accordingly, the antibodies, and antibody portions, of the invention, can be
   used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases.
                           8.4     Use of Anti-IL-12 Antibody in Multiple Sclerosis
 5                 Interleukin-12 has been implicated as a key mediator of multiple
    sclerosis. Expression of the inducible IL-12 p40 message or IL-12 itself can be
   demonstrated in lesions of patients with multiple sclerosis (Windhagen et al., (1995)
   J. Exp. Med 182: 1985-1996, Drulovic et al., (1997) J. Neurol. Sci. 147:145-150, the
   entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference). Chronic progressive
10 patients with multiple sclerosis have elevated circulating levels of IL-12.
   Investigations with T-cells and antigen presenting cells (APCs) from patients with
   multiple sclerosis revealed a self-perpetuating series of immune interactions as the
   basis of progressive multiple sclerosis leading to a Thl-type immune response.
   Increased secretion of IFN-y from the T cells led to increased IL- 12 production by
15 APCs, which perpetuated the cycle leading to a chronic state of a Thl -type immune
   activation and disease (Balashov et al., (1997) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 94: 599-603, the
   entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference). The role of IL-12 in
   multiple sclerosis has been investigated using mouse and rat experimental allergic
   encephalomyelitis (EAE) models of multiple sclerosis. In a relapsing-remitting EAE
20 model of multiple sclerosis in mice, pretreatment with anti-IL-12 mAb delayed
   paralysis and reduced clinical scores. Treatment with anti-IL- 12 mAb at the peak of
   paralysis or during the subsequent remission period reduced clinical scores.
   Accordingly, the antibodies or antigen binding portions thereof of the invention nay
   serve to alleviate symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis in humans.
25
                           8.5     Use of Anti-IL-12 Antibody in Insulin-Dependent
   Diabetes Mellitus
                   Interleukin-12 has been implicated as an important mediator of insulin
   dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). IDDM was induced in NOD mice by
30 administration of IL-12, and anti-IL-12 antibodies were protective in an adoptive
   transfer model of IDDM. Early onset IDDM patients often experience a so-called
   "honeymoon period" during which some residual islet cell function is maintained.
                                            60

   These residual islet cells produce insulin and regulate blood glucose levels better than
   administered insulin. Treatment of these early onset patients with an anti-IL-12
   antibody may prevent further destruction of islet cells, thereby maintaining an
   endogenous source of insulin.
 5
                            8.6     Use of Anti-IL-12 Antibody in Psoriasis
                    Interleukin- 12 has been implicated as a key mediator in psoriasis.
   Psoriasis involves acute and chronic skin lesions that are associated with a TH 1-type
   cytokine expression profile. (Hamid et al. (1996) J. Allergy Clin. Immunol. 1:225
10 231; Turka et al. (1995) Mol. Med. 1:690-699, the entire teachings of which are
   incorporated herein by reference). IL-12 p35 and p40 mRNAs were detected in
   diseased human skin samples. Accordingly, the antibodies or antigen binding
   portions thereof of the invention may serve to alleviate chronic skin disorders such
   psoriasis.
15
                            8.7     Uses of Anti-IL-18 Antibody Generally
                    Given their ability to bind to IL- 18, the anti-IL- 18 antibodies, or
   portions thereof, of the invention can be used to detect IL- 18, in one aspect, hIL- 18
   (e.g., in a sample matrix, in one aspect, a biological sample, such as serum or plasma),
20 using a conventional immunoassay, such as an enzyme linked immunosorbent assays
   (ELISA), an radioimmunoassay (RIA) or tissue immunohistochemistry. The
   invention provides a method for detecting IL- 18 in a biological sample comprising
   contacting a sample with an antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention and
   detecting either the antibody (or antibody portion) bound to IL- 18 or unbound
25 antibody (or antibody portion), to thereby detect IL- 18 in the sample. The antibody is
   directly or indirectly labeled with a detectable substance to facilitate detection of the
   bound or unbound antibody. Suitable detectable substances include various enzymes,
   prosthetic groups, fluorescent materials, luminescent materials and radioactive
   materials. Examples of suitable enzymes include horseradish peroxidase, alkaline
30 phosphatase, p-galactosidase, or acetyleholinesterase; examples of suitable prosthetic
   group complexes include streptavidin/biotin and avidin/biotin; examples of suitable
   fluorescent materials include umbelliferone, fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocyanate,
                                              61

   rhodamine, dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein, dansyl chloride or phycoerythrin; an
   example of a luminescent material includes luminol; and examples of suitable
   radioactive material include    12s, 1",    3  S, or ' H. Detection of IL- 18 in a sample
   may be useful in a diagnostic context, for example in the diagnosis of a condition
 5 associated with increased IL-18, and/or may be useful in identifying a subject who
   may benefit from treatment with an anti-IL-18 antibody.
                    Alternative to labeling the antibody, IL- 18 can be assayed in a sample
   by a competition immunoassay utilizing, e.g., rhIL- 18 standards labeled with a
   detectable substance and an unlabeled anti-IL- 18 antibody, such as an anti-hlL- 18
10 antibody. In this assay, the sample, the labeled rhIL- 18 standards, and the anti-hIL- 18
   antibody are combined and the amount of labeled rhIL-18 standard bound to the
   unlabeled antibody is determined. The amount of hIL- 18 in the sample is inversely
   proportional to the amount of labeled rhIL- 18 standard bound to the anti-hIL- 18
   antibody.
15                  The antibodies and antibody portions of the invention are capable of
   neutralizing IL- 18 activity in vitro and in vivo, in one aspect, a hIL- 18 activity.
   Accordingly, the antibodies and antibody portions of the invention can be used to
   inhibit IL-18 activity, e.g., in a cell culture containing IL-18, in human subjects or in
   other mammalian subjects having IL-18 with which an antibody of the invention
20 cross-reacts (e.g., primates such as baboon, cynomolgus and rhesus). In a one aspect,
   the invention provides an isolated human antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof,
   that neutralizes the activity of human IL- 18, and at least one additional primate IL- 18
   selected from the group consisting of baboon IL-18, marmoset IL-18, chimpanzee IL
   18, cynomolgus IL- 18 and rhesus IL- 18, but which does not neutralize the activity of
25 the mouse IL-18. In one aspect, the IL-18 is human IL-18. For example, in a cell
   culture containing, or suspected of containing hIL-18, an antibody or antibody portion
   of the invention can be added to the culture medium to inhibit hIL- 18 activity in the
   culture.
                   In another aspect, the invention provides a method for inhibiting IL- 18
30 activity in a subject suffering from a disorder in which IL-18 activity is detrimental.
   Interleukin 18 plays a critical role in the pathology associated with a variety of
   diseases involving immune and inflammatory elements.
                   As used herein, the phrase "a disorder in which IL- 18 activity is
   detrimental" is intended to include diseases and other disorders in which the presence
                                               62

   of IL-18 in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is suspected
   of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor that
   contributes to a worsening of the disorder. Accordingly, a disorder in which IL-18
   activity is detrimental is a disorder in which inhibition of IL- 18 activity is expected to
 5 alleviate the symptoms and/or progression of the disorder. Such disorders may be
   evidenced, e.g., by an increase in the concentration of IL- 18 in a biological fluid of a
   subject suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of IL- 18 in
   serum, plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject), which can be detected, e.g., using
   an anti-IL-18 antibody as described above. There are numerous examples of
10 disorders in which IL-18 activity is detrimental. In one aspect, the antibodies or
   antigen binding portions thereof, can be used in therapy to treat the diseases or
   disorders described herein. In another aspect, the antibodies or antigen binding
   portions thereof, can be used for the manufacture of a medicine for treating the
   diseases or disorders described herein. The use of the antibodies and antibody
15 portions of the invention in the treatment of a few non-limiting specific disorders is
   discussed further below.
                    The invention provides pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment
   of diseases or conditions which require modulation of IL- 18 activity. These diseases
   or conditions include autoimmune diseases, type I diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, graft
20 rejections, inflammatory bowel disease, sepsis, multiple sclerosis, ischemic heart
   diseases (including heart attacks), ischemic brain injury, chronic hepatitis, psoriasis,
   chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis and the like.
                    Accordingly, anti-IL-18 antibodies or antigen-binding portions thereof,
   or vectors expressing same in vivo are indicated for the treatment of autoimmune
25 diseases, Type I diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, graft rejections, inflammatory bowel
   disease, sepsis, multiple sclerosis, ischemic heart disease including acute heart
   attacks, ischemic brain injury, chronic hepatitis, psoriasis, chronic pancreatitis and
   acute pancreatitis and similar diseases, in which there is an aberrant expression of IL
    18, leading to an excess of IL-18 or in cases of complications due to exogenously
30 administered IL- 18.
                                             63

                            8.8     Use Anti-IL-18 Antibody in Liver Injury
                    One aspect of the present invention is to provide for a novel means for
   treating and/or preventing liver injury. It has been found that an IL-18 inhibitor is
   effective in the prevention and treatment of liver damages. The invention therefore
 5 also relates to the use of an IL-18 inhibitor for the manufacture of a medicament for
   treatment and/or prevention of liver injury. More specifically, the invention relates to
   the treatment and/or prevention of liver injuries caused by alcoholic hepatitis, viral
   hepatitis, immune hepatitis, fulminant hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, and primary biliary
   cirrhosis.
10
                             8.9    Use Anti-IL-18 Antibody in Arthritis
                    It has also been found in accordance with the present invention that an
   inhibitor of IL- 18 is effective in the therapy of arthritis. The therapeutic effect
   includes decreasing the severity of the disease, as well as preventing the spreading of
15 the disease. The invention therefore relates to the use of an inhibitor of IL- 18 for
   treatment and/or prevention of arthritis. This finding is unexpected, since from the
   state of the art outlined above, it could not have been concluded that a blockade of
   one specific factor involved in arthritis, namely interleukin IL- 18, would lead to the
   alleviation of arthritis or even the curing of a diseased arthritic joint.
20                  The term "arthritis" includes all different types of arthritis and arthritic
   conditions, both acute and chronic arthritis, as defined for example in the Homepage
   of the Department of Orthopaedics of the University of Washington on Arthritis.
   Examples for arthritic conditions are ankylosing spondylitis, back pain, carpal
   deposition syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos-Syndrome, gout, juvenile arthritis, lupus
25 erythematosus, myositis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteoporosis, polyartheritis,
   polymyositis, psoriatic arthritis, Reiter's syndrome, scleroderma, arthritis with bowel
   disease, Behcets's disease, children's arthritis, degenerative joint disease,
   fibromyalgia, infectious arthritis, Lyme disease, Marfan syndrome, osteoarthritis,
   osteonecrosis, Pagets Disease, Polymyalgia rheumatica, pseudogout, reflex
30 sympathetic dystrophy, rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatism, Sjogren's syndrome,
   familial adenomatous polyposis and the like.
                                              64

                    Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes inflammation in the lining of the
   joints (the synovial membrane, a one cell layer epithelium) and/or internal organs.
    The disease tends to persist for many years, typically affects many different joints
   throughout the body and ultimately can cause damage to cartilage, bone, tendons, and
 5  ligaments. The joints that may be affected by RA are the joints located in the neck,
    shoulders, elbows, hips, wrists, hands, knees, ankles and feet, for example. In many
    cases, the joints are inflamed in a symmetrical pattern in RA.
                    RA is prevalent in about 1% of the population in the United States,
   being distributed within all ethnic groups and ages. It occurs all over the world, and
10 women outnumber men by 3 to 1 among those having RA.
                    It has been found that the administration of an IL- 18 inhibitor
    significantly diminishes cartilage erosion in a murine model of arthritis. The present
   invention thus also relates to the use of an inhibitor of IL- 18 in the manufacture of a
   medicament for treatment and/or prevention of cartilage destruction.
15
                             8.10   Use of anti-TNFa Antibody Generally
                    Tumor necrosis factor-a is a multifunctional pro-inflammatory
   cytokine secreted predominantly by monocytes/macrophages that has effects on lipid
   metabolism, coagulation, insulin resistance, and endothelial function. TNFa is a
20 soluble homotrimer of 17 kD protein subunits. A membrane-bound 26 kD precursor
   form of TNFa also exists. It is found in synovial cells and macrophages in tissues.
   Cells other than monocytes or macrophages also produce TNFa. For example, human
   non-monocytic tumor cell lines produce TNFa as well as CD4* and CD8' peripheral
   blood T lymphocytes and some cultured T and B cell lines produce TNFa. It is
25 involved in, but not unique to, rheumatoid arthritis, and occurs in many inflammatory
   diseases. Receptors for TNFa are on several mononuclear cells, in the synovial
   membrane, as well as the peripheral blood and synovial fluid. TNFa is a critical
   inflammatory mediator in rheumatoid arthritis, and may therefore be a useful target
   for specific immunotherapy.
30                  TNFa causes pro-inflammatory actions which result in tissue injury,
   such as degradation of cartilage and bone, induction of adhesion molecules, inducing
   pro-coagulant activity on vascular endothelial cells, increasing the adherence of
   neutrophils and lymphocytes, and stimulating the release of platelet activating factor
                                             65

   from macrophages, neutrophils and vascular endothelial cells. Recent evidence
   associates TNFax with infections, immune disorders, neoplastic pathologies,
   autoimmune pathologies and graft-versus-host pathologies.
                    TNFa is believed to play a central role in gram-negative sepsis and
 5 endotoxic shock, including fever, malaise, anorexia, and cachexia. Endotoxin strongly
   activates monocyte/ macrophage production and secretion of TNFa and other
   cytokines. TNFa and other monocyte-derived cytokines mediate the metabolic and
   neurohormonal responses to endotoxin. Endotoxin administration to human
   volunteers produces acute illness with flu-like symptoms including fever, tachycardia,
10 increased metabolic rate and stress hormone release. Circulating TNFa increases in
   patients suffering from gram-negative sepsis.
                    Thus, TNFa has been implicated in inflammatory diseases,
   autoimmune diseases, viral, bacterial and parasitic infections, malignancies, and/or
   neurodegenerative diseases and is a useful target for specific biological therapy in
15 diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease. Beneficial effects in open
   label trials with a chimeric monoclonal antibody to TNFa have been reported with
   suppression of inflammation and with successful re-treatment after relapse in
   rheumatoid arthritis and in Crohn's disease.
                    Neutralizing antisera or mAbs to TNFa have been shown in mammals
20 to abrogate adverse physiological changes and prevent death after lethal challenge in
   experimental endotoxemia and bacteremia. Adalimumab (also known by its
   trademark HUMIRA@ available from Abbott Laboratories) is a recombinant human
   monoclonal antibody specific for TNFa. This monoclonal antibody binds to TNFa
   and blocks its interaction with the p55 and p75 cell-surface TNFa receptors. This
25 monoclonal antibody is quite specific for TNFa as it appears not to inhibit the activity
   of TNFp. In the presence of complement, adalimumab lyses the surface of cells
   expressing TNFa.
                                             66

     EXAMPLES
              1.      The Isolation And Purification of Anti-IL-12 Antibody
                      1.1     Purification Strategy
                      Upon completion of a production cell culture operation designed to
  5 produce IL-12 antibodies, the broth was slowly adjusted to and maintained at pH 3.5
     for a period of 1 hour, then readjusted to pH 5, followed by centrifugation
     (11,000 x g) to remove cells and precipitated impurities. The centrifugation
     supernatant was further clarified by a two step filtration train (Cuno 90ZA depth
     filtration, followed by 0.45/0.2 gm filtration). Following clarification, the antibody
10  was captured and further purified in a five step procedure.
                      The clarified acidified cell culture harvest was titrated to pH 7 with
     3 N NaOH in the course of 30 minutes and filtered prior to chromatography.
                      A 1.0 cm diameter x 21.6 cm long column (17 mL bed volume) was
    used for this operation at the bench scale. A 1.0 cm x 15.1 cm column (11.9 mL bed
15  volume) was used at the early stage to generate material for the fine purification
    development. A 20 cm x 21 cm column (6.6 L bed volume) was used at the 300 L
    scale. The columns were packed with MabSelectTM resin (GE Healthcare, cat# 17
    5199-04, lot# 302070); the asymmetry and Height of an Equivalent Theoretical Plate
    (HETP) were measured to determine the quality of the packing.
20                    The column was pre-equilibrated with 25 mM Tris, 100 mM NaCl,
    pH 7.2 buffer. Following equilibration, the column was loaded with clarified cell
    culture harvest (v = 300 cm/hr for the initial 35 g Ab/L resin load, then 150 cm/hr till
    the end of the load, 40 g/L maximum). The column was then washed with 3 column
    volumes (CV) of equilibration buffer (v = 300 cm/hr) followed by 3 CVs of 20 mM
25  citric acid/ NaCitrate, 0.5 M NaCl, pH 6 buffer wash, followed by an additional
    3 CVs of equilibration buffer. The product was then eluted with 0.1 M acetic acid,
    100 mM NaCl, pH 3.5 (v = 300 cm/hr). The column eluate was collected from an
    initial A 280 deflection of 0.1 AU to a reading of 0.1 AU at the trailing edge of the
    elution peak (2 mm flow cell path) and titrated to pH 5 immediately with 1.0 M Tris,
30  pH 10 buffer.
                      The dynamic binding capacity (DBC) of the MabSelectTM column was
    determined either by a single flow rate load or dual-flow rate load strategy. The single
                                               67

     flow rate load was evaluated at 300 cm/hr through the entire loading. The dual-flow
     rate load strategy was carried by loading the column up to 35 mg protein/mL resin at a
     linear velocity of 300 cm/hr, and then reducing the linear velocity by half to allow
     longer residence time for the last portion of the load. In each experiment the column
  5  was overloaded to ensure the saturation of the column at the given loading conditions.
     The flow-through material for each run was fractionated to determine the total amount
     of antibody loaded before 5% was detected in the break though. Titers of flow
     through (FT) fractions were obtained by the Poros A TM HPLC assay.
                     Recovery was calculated by UV spectrophotometry at 280 nm
10   (extinction coefficient of 1.42 for a 1 mg/mL solution using a 1 cm path length) for
     elution samples. Titers of the load were determined by the Poros ATM HPLC assay.
     SEC-HPLC, HCP ELISA and Protein A ELISA were carried out for purity
     assessment, HCP removal and leached Protein A levels.
                     The MabSelectTM eluate was titrated to pH 8 + 0.1 with 1 M Tris
15  buffer, pH 10, and then diluted to 6.5   + 0.5 mS/cm with water. The diluted material
    was mixed for a period of one hour, followed by a CunoTM delipid and 0.45/0.22 pm
    filtration.
                     A 1.0 cm diameter x 29 cm long column (22.8 mL bed volume) was
    used for the  Q SepharoseTM    Fast Flow chromatography at the bench scale. A 20 cm x
20  29.5 cm column (9.27 L bed volume) was used at the 300 L scale. The columns were
    packed with    Q SepharoseTM   FF resin (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ, cat# 17-05 10
    04, lot# 296307 for the 300 L scale, lot# 303189 for the bench scale); asymmetry and
    HETP were measured to determine the quality of the packing.
                     Equilibration of the resin was accomplished with 25 mM Tris, 50 mM
25  NaCl, pH 8. The chromatography was operated in the flow-through mode where
    process-related impurities adsorbed to the resin and antibodies flowed through the
    column. Loading of the column was performed at 150 cm/hr, and the column flow
    through (FTW) collection was started when the A 280 rose above 0.2 AU. Samples of
    the FTW material were taken at intervals corresponding to 30, 50, 80, 90 and 100 g of
30  protein/L resin loadings. The column was then washed with equilibration buffer and
    the FTW collection was continued until the A 280 returned to an OD of 0.2 AU. The
    Q Sepharose TM FTW was diluted with an equal volume of 1.7 M (NH 4 )2 SO 4 , 50 mM
    Na phosphate, pH 7 (SR-343) immediately, to prepare for loading onto the Phenyl
                                               68

   SepharosTme HP column. This solution was 0.2 tm filtered and labeled Phenyl
   SepharoseTM HP load.
                   Recovery was calculated by UV spectrophotometry at 280 nm
   (extinction coefficient of 1.42 for a 1 mg/mL solution using a 1 cm path length). SEC
 5 HPLC, HCP ELISA and Protein A ELISA were carried out for purity assessment,
   HCP removal and leached Protein A removal.
                   A 1.0 cm diameter x 15.6 cm long column (12.3 mL bed volume) was
   used for Phenyl SepharoseTM HP Chromatography at the bench scale. A 20 cm x
   15.5 cm column (4.87 L bed volume) was used at the 300 L scale. The columns were
10 packed with Phenyl SepharoseTM HP resin (GE Healthcare, Piscatway, NJ, cat# 17
   1082-04, lot# 298138); asymmetry and HETP were measured to determine the quality
   of the packing.
                   Equilibration of the resin was accomplished with 25 mM sodium
   phosphate, 0.85 M ammonium sulfate, pH 7. The maximum protein loading for this
15 step was 5 40 g protein per liter of resin (v = 75 cm/hr). Following loading, the
   column was washed with 3 column volumes of 20 mM sodium phosphate, 1.1 M
   (NH4 ) 2S0 4, pH 7 (SR-290). The product was eluted by performing a step gradient
   using 15 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7, 0.5 M ammonium sulfate at a linear velocity
   of 37.5 cm/hr. The column eluate was collected from an initial A280 deflection of
20 1.0 AU to a reading of 0.2 AU at the trailing edge of the elution peak. Aggregates
   and other impurities remain bound to the resin and were stripped off the HIC column
   by washing with water or 0.5 M NaOH.
                   Recovery was calculated by UV spectrophotometry at 280 nm
   (extinction coefficient of 1.42 for a 1 mg/mL solution using a 1 cm path length). SEC
25 HPLC, HCP ELISA and Protein A ELISA were carried for purity assessment, HCP
   removal and leached Protein A removal.
                   Viral filtration with the Ultipor DV20TM filter was not evaluated at
   either the bench scale or the scale-up lab due to the size limitation at both scales.
   Instead, an Ultipor DV5OTM filter was used at the 300 L scale to generate the pre
30 clinical material. At the bench scale, the product that eluted from the Phenyl
   SepharoseTM HP chromatography was used directly for the final ultrafiltration and
   diafiltration operation.
                                             69

                   A Millipore 30 kD molecular weight cut-off (MWCO) regenerated
   cellulose ultrafilter was used for this step (UF/DF). Prior to operation, the UF system
   was sanitized with 1 M NaOH and rinsed with water.
                   The DV5OTM filtrate was initially concentrated to 30 mg/mL protein.
 5 Continuous diafiltration with 2 volumes (DV) of 5 mM histidine, 5 mM methionine,
   0.5% sucrose, 2% (w/v) mannitol, pH 5.9 (diafiltration buffer) (SR-265) was
   performed. The retentate was further concentrated to 40 g/L, then diafiltrated with an
   additional 6 DVs of diafiltration buffer. The retentate was further concentrated to
    ~75 g/L. The UF system was then drained of product and rinsed with diafiltration
10 buffer to recover product held up in the system. The concentrate and wash were
   combined to produce the diafiltered antibody product at -65 g/L. This product was
   0.2 pLm filtered and ready for final bottling.
                    1.2    Analysis of Sample Purity
15                 SEC-HPLC. The purity of the antibody product was assessed by size
   exclusion chromatography SEC-HPLC.
                   Poros A HPLC Assay. The antibody titers of the harvest, MabSelectTM
   load and flow through samples were determined by a Poros ATM quantitation capture
   assay.
20                 HCP ELISA. Host cell protein levels were evaluated using Host Cell
   Protein - ELISA. HCP was sandwiched between two specific antibodies in an
   Enzyme Linked Immunosorbant Assay (ELISA).
                   The plate was coated with a 100 pL/well of a mixture of goat
   anti CHO affinity purified antibodies (6 pg/mL each in 50 mM sodium bicarbonate,
25 pH 9.4) for 1 hour at 37'C while shaking at 80 rpm; the contents of the plate were
   then poured out and non-specific sites were blocked with 300 pL/well of casein for
   1 hour at 37'C while shaking at 80 rpm. After blocking, the plate was washed with
   wash buffer (1X PBS, 0.1% Triton X-100, pH 9). Samples for the standard curve
   were prepared from serially diluting a 5.2 mg/mL aliquot of CHO host cell proteins.
30 The diluent for all reagents was casein, heated to 37'C and sonicated for 2 minutes,
   unless otherwise stated. Concentrations for the standard curve were 300, 200, 133,
   89, 59, 40, 26, and 18 ng/mL. Antibody standard was diluted 5X and used as the
   assay control. For the assay to be accepted, the calculated value for the control must
                                              70

   be in the range of 45 - 76 ng HCP/mL. Samples were diluted so that the calculated
   values would fall within the range of the standard curve. Standards, control, and
   samples (100 pL/well) were loaded onto the plate in duplicate. The plate was
   incubated at 37'C while shaking at 80 rpm for 1 hour. After sample incubation, the
 5 plate was washed with buffer and loaded with 100 pL/well of biotinylated goat anti
   CHO antibody diluted to 3 ptg/mL. The plate was incubated at 37C while shaking at
   80 rpm for 1 hour and then washed. 100 pL/well of Neutravadin-Hoorse Rsadish
   Peroxidase (HRP) at 100 pg/mL was added and the plate incubated at 37"C while
   shaking at 80 rpm for 1 hour. A final wash was performed and the plate was
10 developed with 100 pL/well of K Blue HRP colorometric substrate for 7 minutes
   while shaking at speed 3 on a Lab-line titer plate shaker at room temperature. The
   reaction was stopped with the addition of 100 pL/well of 2 M phosphoric acid and the
   plate was read at 450 nm. Color development is proportional to the amount of HCP
   present in the test sample.
15                 Protein A ELISA. Protein A clearance was evaluated using an assay
   kit from Cygnus Technologies, Inc. (Immunoenymetric Assay for the Measurement
   of Protein A in samples containing human immunoglobulin, catalog# F050H).
   Standards, reagents, and plate were provided in the kit. Samples were diluted to
   1 mg/mL with 1X PBS and denatured at 100"C for 5 minutes with denaturing buffer
20 (50 pL denaturing buffer into 200 pL sample). The samples were centrifuged at 6000
   x g for 5 minutes to pellet the denatured antibody. 100 pL of biotinylated anti
   Protein A and 50 pL of supernatant from denatured samples, controls, and standards
   were added to all wells. The plate was incubated for 1 hour at room temperature while
   shaking at 180 rpm. The contents of wells were aspirated and the plate manually
25 washed four times with 300 pL of wash solution. Streptavidin:Alkaline Phosphatase
   was added to each well (100 pL) and the plate was incubated at room temperature for
   1 hour while shaking at 180 rpm. After washing the plate as described above, 100 pL
   of Alkaline Phosphatase colorometric substrate was added to the wells and the plate
   was incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature while shaking at 180 rpm. The
30 plate was read at 405 and 492 nm. If the absorbance for the 16 ng/mL sample was
   < 1.2, the plate was incubated an additional 30 minutes and re-read. Color
   development is proportional to the amount of Protein A present in the test sample.
                                            71

                      1.3      Results of Purification Strategy
                      Protein A chromatography. The MabSelectTM Protein A
   chromatography was used to capture anti-IL-12 antibodies and reduce product and
   process related impurities such as single and double light chain fragments, CHO host
 5 cell proteins (HCPs) and DNA, etc. Data from both bench scale and 300 L bioreactor
   scale showed good protein recovery and HCP clearance (Tables 1 and 2). A
   representative chromatogram from the 300 L bioreactor scale was provided in
   Figure 4.
          Table I          Summary of recovery and purity for the new process at bench-scale
        Process step        Recovery        Purity       HCP(nglmg Ab)* Leached Protein A
                               (%)      (% monomer)                        (ng/mg Ab)
          Clarification         91          ND**            211195.7           0.14
         MabSeletTM             95           97.5            1121.9            9.36
         Q SephT- FF            96           96.9             34.5             8.21
          Phenyl HP             90           99.2             11.1             0.65
            Overall             81          ND**              ND**             ND**
10                *   1 Day HCP ELISA assay. SOP PD-122.
                  ** ND - not determined.
          Table 2          Summary of the new process at 300 liter scale
                                                    Purity                    Leached
            Process step           Recovery                         HCP      Protein A
                                                 monomer)                   (ngmg Ab)
             Clarification            91             ND**          141753       ND**
             MabSelectTM              95            94.44         <2117.6        7.6
           Delipid filtration         97            95.97            58          3.4
             Q SephT FF               93            96.21             8          3.7
            Phenyl SephTM             92            99.72             4          2.3
                    HP
                DV50-                 95            99.64           ND**        ND**
                 UF/DF                99            99.59           ND**        ND**
                Bottling              99            99.55             5          0.3
                 Overall              67            NA***           NA***       NA*
                  *     1 Day HCP ELISA assay, SOP PD-122.
15
                  **   ND   =  not determined.
                        NA   =  not applicable.
                                                  72

                     Data shown in Table 3 demonstrated that the dynamic binding capacity
   of the MabSelectTM chromatography was affected by load flow rate, specifically by
   residence time. When loaded at a constant linear velocity of 300 cm/hr (3.4 minutes
   residence time), the DBC was 44.3 mg protein/mL resin. When the dual-flow rate
 5 loading strategy (300 cm/hr up to 35 g/L, switching to 150 cm/hr resulted in the DBC
   increasing by 17% to 51.7 mg protein/mL resin. This increase of the DBC was
   accomplished by doubling residence time for the latter portion of the load.
   Theoretically, in the initial stage of column loading, binding occurs predominately at
   the bead surface, sites which are easily accessible. This permits the use of faster flow
10 rates with little impact on binding kinetics. Once all the readily accessible sites are
   occupied, proteins need to diffuse into pores to bind to the less readily accessible
   sites. Kinetically this is a slower process and therefore, the flow rates should be
   reduced accordingly to maximize binding.
           Table 3       Effect of flow rate on the DBC of the MabSelectTM column
                             Load linear velocity      Experiment #       DBC at 5% BT
                                                                        (mg Ab/mL resin)
                                                           Exp. 1             43.7
         Single flow                300 cm/hr
          rate load                                        Exp. 2             44.9
                                                          Average             44.3
          Dual-flow    Initial linear velocity of          Exp. 3             51.6
          rate load    300 cm/hr till 35 mg Ab/mL          Exp. 4             51.7
                       resin load, 2nd linear velocity    Average             51.7
                       of 150 cm/hr until appearance
                       of antibody in the load flow
                       through
15
                     The double light chain amount was reduced from 0.5% to 0.2%
   (according to HPLC-SEC) by implementing an intermediate wash step. Several wash
   buffers were evaluated including 0.5 M NaCl, 25 mM sodium acetate, 0.5 M NaCl,
   pH 5.0 or pH 5.5 and 20 mM citric acid/Na citrate, 0.5 M NaCl, pH 6. Data from
20 both HPLC-SEC and SDS-PAGE (Figure 5) showed a good clearance of low
   molecular weight (LMW) species from all the experiments. When the wash was
   performed at pH 6, the same clearance of LMW was observed compared to the lower
   pH washes, while the 95% protein recovery was comparable to runs without the
   intermediate wash step.
                                                  73

                    Q Sepharose TM Fast Flow chromatography.      The Q Sepharose TM FF
     column was used to reduce negatively charged process and product related impurities
     such as DNA and host cell proteins. This and subsequent steps constitute the fine
    purification steps in the overall process.
  5                 Prior to the chromatography, load sample preparation began with the
    adjustment of the pH and conductivity of the MabSelectTM eluate. The pH of the
    eluate was adjusted from pH 5 to pH 8 using 1 M Tris, pH 10; immediately followed
    by a lowering of the conductivity from ~15 mS to 7 mS with water. Once the
    conductivity of MabSelectTM eluate approached 7 mS/cm, precipitation started to
 10 occur and was allowed to continue for one hour. The precipitated material was
    removed by a Cuno TM delipid or 30ZA depth filter, followed by a 0.45/0.2 4m
    filtration. Protein recovery of this load preparation step was 96.3% according to the
    UV absorbance at 280 nm, indicating that the majority of the precipitated material
    was not antibody. This was also confirmed by SDS-PAGE analysis of the precipitates
15  (Figure 6).
                    The Q SepharoseTM FF column was operated in a flow through mode.
    A representative chromatography profile is shown in Figure 7. No apparent break
    though of HCPs were observed when loaded at 80 g Ab/L resin at the 300 L
    bioreactor scale (Table 4). Once the loading reached 90 g Ab/L resin, the HCP level
20  doubled in the flow through wash (FTW), indicating that the resin was reaching its
    binding capacity. HCP levels continued to increase at 100 g Ab/L resin loading
    (Table 4). This represents a significant improvement over the current antibody
    manufacturing process. Maximum loading is 50 g Ab/L resin. This loading
    represents a 60% increase of the binding capacity for the Q SepharoseTM operation.
25  The increase in load capacity is due to the use of an affinity resin such as Protein A
    vs. a cation exchanger for the capture step, resulting in much cleaner feed streams for
    the Q SepharoseTM unit operation.
                    The protein recovery is typically high for this step. Data from both
    bench and the 300 L bioreactor scale runs resulted in comparable step yields (96%
30  and 93%) (Tables 1 and 2). HCP reduction (97% and 85%) was also achieved at both
    scales (Tables 1 and 2).
                                              74

                  Table 4       Effect of load amount on HCP clearance of the QFF column
                         Q load amount          HCP (ng/mL)*     Ab (mg/mL)    HCP (ng/mg)
                       Q load depth filtered       436.306           7.54           58
                       Q FTW 30% load**             104.122          8.66           12
                       Q FTW 50% load**             61.642           8.59            7
                       Q FTW 80% load**             61.867           8.80            7
                       Q FTW 90% load**             132.955          8.80           15
                       Q FTW 100% load**            157.683          8.52           17
                           Q FTW pool               62.808           8.24            8
                  *  1 day HCP ELISA assay, SOP PD-122.
                  **   100% load   =   100 g Ab/L resin load.
  5                   HIC chromatography. HIC chromatography was used to remove
    aggregated and fragmented antibody molecules from the intact antibodies based on
    their differences in hydrophobicity. In the case of anti-IL-12 antibodies, aggregates
    are more hydrophobic than the monomers, hence bound tighter to the HIC column.
    When the column is eluted with 0.5M ammonium sulfate, monomeric Ab is eluted
 10 off, whereas aggregates remain bound to the column and come off only in the water
    strip. In contrast, the fragmented antibody molecules or low molecular weigh species
    (LMW) are less hydrophobic than the intact antibodies and hence are not bound as
    tightly to the HIC chromatography resin. Most of the LMW are eluted off the column
    prior to the main elution peak. Since the upstream MabSelectTM wash step was able
15  to remove a majority of the LMW from the process stream; the HIC process was
    designed mainly to remove aggregated antibodies, Protein A leachables, residual
    HCPs and other process and product related impurities to achieve final product
    specifications. A representative chromatography elution profile is provided in
    Figure 8.
20                    Data from both the bench and 300 L scale showed > 90% recovery,
    and good aggregate removal (> 99% purity) by HIC chromatography (see Tables 1
    and 2). Leached Protein A in the        Q FTW material  was reduced from 8.21 to
    0.65 ng/mg Ab (ppm) by the HIC chromatography operation (see Table 1).
                      In comparison to the current manufacturing process (e.g., cation
25  exchange capture), Protein A affinity capture based process was able to purify anti
                                                 75

   IL-12 antibodies from CHO cell culture harvest with a higher yield and better HCP
   removal.
           2       The Isolation and Purification of anti-TNFa Antibody
 5                 2.1     The Purification Strategy
                   Cell Culture Harvest Clarification. Cell culture day 13 fermentation
   harvest broth and a clarified day 15 fermentation harvest material were used as
   starting material in this example. Cell culture broth was centrifuged at 3000 rpm for
   30 minutes with Beckman Coulter AllegraTm 6R Centrifuge. The collected
10 supernatant was filtered through Delipid filter (CUNO ZeraPlus@ BC0030A DELI
   BioCapTm 30 disposable capsule) at flow rate of 20 mL/min. The clarified harvest
   was then aliquoted and stored at -80'C. The frozen harvest was thawed and filtered
   with a 0.22 jim Coming@ Cellulose Acetate filter before loading on to the column.
   The harvest broth was centrifuged with a disc-stack centrifuge and further filtered
15 through depth filter and delipid filter. The filtrate was stored at 4*C before loading on
   the column. The clarification process was performed at room temperature.
                   Protein A Affinity Chromatography. A l0mL (1.6 x 5cm) column and
   a 40.2 mL (1.6 x 20cm) column were packed with MabSelect            resin (GE
   Healthcare). An AKTA ExplorerTM chromatography system was used for the
20 operations. Column were packed using 0.5 M NaCl. Table 5 displays the
   chromatography conditions. The elution peak fractions were combined and held for 1
   hour before being neutralized to pH 8.0 with 3M Trolamine. The process was
   performed at room temperature.
                                            76

                    Table 5. Protein A affinity Chromatography conditions
                                                                                    Linear
                      Step                          Solution              Volume Velocity*
                                                                            (CV)    (cm/h)
            Rinse                  Water                                      5       400
           Equilibration           IX PBS                                     5       400
           Load                    See sample info                        variable    400
           Wash                    1X PBS                                     5       400
           Elution                 Acetic acid buffer w/ pH 3.2               5       400
           regeneration            1.0% Acetic Acid/0.5M NaCl                 5       400
           sanitization every cycle6.0 M Guanidine                            5       100
           Rinse                   Milli Q Water                              5       400
           Storage                 150mM Na Acetate pH5, 20% ethanol          3       100
                  * Linear velocity was 100 cm/h for 5 cm height column and 400 cm/h for
                  20cm height column to keep the same residence time.
 5                   Q Load Material Preparation.         The neutralized eluate from two Protein
   A runs were combined and diluted with approximately 0.5-1.0 time with Milli             Q
   water to achieve a conductivity of 4.5 ~ 5.5 mS/cm (25*C). The diluted sample was
   filtered through a depth filter (CUNO Zeta Plus BioCap@ BC0030A30ZA) at a flow
   rate of 20 mL/min followed with a 0.45 tm cellulose acetate filter (Coming, Inc.) and
10 then 0.22 pm cellulose acetate filter (Coming, Inc.). The sample was then ready to
   load onto the Q column.
                     Q SepharoseTM     Anion Exchange Chromatography. A 60.3 mL (1.6 x
   30m) and a 40.2 mL (1.6 x 20m) column were packed with               Q Sepharose M Fast Flow
                                                                                     T
   resin (GE Healthcare) and operated by AKTA ExplorerT M chromatoragphy system.
15 Table 6 displays the chromatography conditions. The process was performed at 12*C.
   Column flow through samples were collected for Phenyl HP chromatography
   purification.
                                                  77

                      Table 6. Q Sepharoses chromatography condition
                                                                            Linear
                     Step                      Solution           Volume   Velocity
                                                                   (CV)     (cm/h)
            Equilibration      25mM Trolamine, 40 mM NaCl, pH 8.0    5        149
            Load               See sample info                    variable    149
            Wash               25mM Trolamine, 40 mM NaCl, pH 8      5        149
            Regeneration       25 mM NaPi, 1 M NaCl, pH 7.0          3        149
            Rinse              WFI water                             2        149
            Sanitize           IM NaOH                               3       74.6
            Rinse              WFI water                             3       74.6
            Storage            25mM NaPi, 20% iPrOH                   5      74.6
                   Phenyl Sepharose TM HP Chromatography. A 30.2 mL (1.6 x 15cm)
 5 column was packed with Phenyl SepharoseTm HP resin (GE Healthcare) and operated
   by AKTA Explorer chromatography system. The          Q flow through was   diluted with
   2.2 M (NH4) 2SO 4/40mM NaH2PO 4 buffer at 1:1 ratio to achieve a conductivity of 147
   ± 11 mS/cm for loading onto Phenyl SepharoseTM HP column. The main elution peak
   was   collected. Table 7 displays the chromatography conditions. The process was
10 performed at 12*C.
                Table 7. Phenyl HP chromatography condition
                                                                            Linear
                     Step                      Solution           Volume   Velocity
                                                                   (CV)     (cm/h)
            Equilibration      1.1M(NH4)S04, 20mM Na-P04              5        75
            Load               See sample info                    variable     75
            Wash               1.1M(NH4)S04, 20mM Na-P04              5        75
            Elution            0.6M-0.65M AmSO4, 11.4mM NaPi         3       37.5
            Regeneration       25mM Na-P04, 20% iPrOH                 3      37.5
            Rinse              Milli Q water                          3      37.5
            Sanitization       1 M NaOH                              3       37.5
                                               78

                   2.2 Analysis of Sample Purity
                  pH. A pH meter was calibrated using two pH standard solutions (pH 4
   and 7 or pH 7 and 10) immediately before use. The measured values were within the
 5 calibration points. A Coming Pinnacle 545 pH meter was used.
                   Conductivity. Conductivity was measured at 25*C, using a Radiometer
   Analytical CDM210 conductivity meter.
                  UV spectroscopy A 2 8 0 . UV A28 o was measured, using an Agilent
   UV8453 spectrophotometer. The extinction coefficient used for adalimumab is
10  1.39 L/g. cm.
                  Poros A HPLC. Antibody concentration was determined by Poros A
   (Protein A) HPLC. Sample dilutions were applied to achieve readings within the
   calibration range. A Shimadzu HPLC system was configured with a Poros A
   ImmunoDetection sensor cartridge (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). The
15 column was maintained at ambient temperature. The system was run at 2 mL/minute.
   Autosampler tray temperature was set at 4"C. Absorbance was monitored at 280 nm.
   Buffer A was 1X PBS. Buffer B was 0.1 M acetic acid and 150 mM sodium chloride.
   The sample was injected and adalimumab was eluted using 100% Buffer B.
                  WCX-10 HPLC. WCX-10 HPLC (weak cation exchange) analysis
20 was performed. A Shimadzu HPLC system was configured with a Dionex ProPac
   WCX-10 analytical column and a guard column (Dionex Corporation, Sunnyvale,
   CA). Both columns were maintained at 30'C. The system was run at 1 mL/minute.
   Auto sampler tray temperature was set at 4'C. Absorbance was monitored at 280 nm.
   Buffer A was 10 mM sodium phosphate dibasic, pH 7.5 and Buffer B was 10 mM
25 sodium phosphate dibasic/500 mM sodium chloride, pH 5.5. The sample was injected
   and adalimumab was eluted using the gradient method as following.
                                             79

                         Time (min)   Buffer A (%)     Buffer B (%)
                         0.0          94               6
                         20.0         84               16
                         22.0         0                100
                         26.0         0                100
                         28.0         94               6
                         34.0         94               6
                   Size exclusion Chromatography (SEC) HPLC. SEC analysis was
   performed. Sample dilutions were applied to achieve readings within the standard
 5 curve. A Shimadzu HPLC system was configured with a Superose TM 6 10/300 GL
   column (GE Healthcare). The column was maintained at ambient temperature. The
   system was run at 0.5 mL/minute. Autosampler tray temperature was set at 4 0 C.
   Absorbance was monitored at 214 nm. Buffer A was 20 mM sodium phosphate
   dibasic/150 mM sodium chloride. The sample was injected and adalimumab was run
10 isocratically using 100% Buffer A.
                   HCP ELISA. HCP ELISA was performed as outlined above. Sample
   dilutions were applied to achieve readings within the calibration range.
                   Protein A ELISA assay. Leachable Protein A concentration analysis
   was performed as outlined above. Immunoenzymetric Assay for the Measurement of
15 Protein A samples containing human immunoglobulin assay pre-coated kits (Catalog
   # F050H) including the sample diluent (Catalog # 1028) were purchased from Cygnus
   Technologies, Inc. Block heater (Type 17600 Dry-Bath, Barnstead/Thermolyne) was
   used for sample denaturing. Incubator (max 4000, Barnstead/Lab-Line) was used for
   sample incubation. Plate reader (Spectramax Plus, Molecular Devices) was used for
20 absorbance reading at 405 nm and 495 nm.
                   SDS-PAGE. Samples were diluted with 1X PBS buffer to a designed
   concentration, then an equal volume of 2X loading buffer (InvitrogenTM Novex@
   Tris-Glycine SDS Sample Buffer (2X), Cat# LC2676) was added to each diluted
   sample. For reducing SDS-PAGE, one tenth volume of reducer (invitrogen TM
25 NaPAGE@ Sample Reducing Agent (10X), Cat# NP0004) was added into each
   sample. 20 ptL of each prepared sample was loaded in each well on the gel
   (invitrogen TM 12% Tris-Glycine Gel). The gel was run under IX Tri-Glycine -SDS
   running buffer (diluted from 1oX Tris-Glycine-SDS buffer from ABC Storage Room)
                                           80

     at constant voltage of 125 V and 35 mA for 108 minutes. SimpleBlue TM SafeStain
     (invitrogen TM , Cat# LC6060) was used to stain the gel for 2 hours and destained with
     Milli  Q water until clear bends appeared. SeeBlue@ Plus Prestained Standard (iX)
     (invitrogenTm Cat# LC5925) was used as a marker in this study. Each prepared
  5  sample was loaded on the base of equal total amount of antibody.
                      2.3    Results of Purification Strategy
                      MabSelect"    Dynamic Binding Capacity. The dynamic binding
     capacity of a resin under given conditions can be estimated by over-loading the
10   column and analyzing the resultant breakthrough of product. Typically, the setting for
    maximum binding capacity is to determine the loading corresponding to 10%
    breakthrough and then reducing this by 10 to 20% as a safety margin to assure that
    process measurement variability and the Protein A ligand leached with the time to be
    covered. The 10% breakthrough point for MabSelect TM resin is at 37.4 g antibody per
15  L of resin (Figure 9). This suggested a maximum recommended resin binding
    capacity of 32 g/L resin at a flow rate of 400 cm/hr under the studied conditions.
    32g/L load amount was used in this example.
                      Antibody Recovery Yield. There were two runs performed for product
    yield and quality study. Harvest broth were clarified as described above. Filtrates
20  were loaded onto the MabSelectTM column and run as described above. The eluates
    pH (pH 4.06) were higher than the sufficient viral reduction/inactivation pH (pH 3.5),
    therefore the eluate pool was adjusted to pH 3.5 with 1OX diluted glacial acetic acid
    (J.T.Baker 9522-03). In the    Q Sepharose TM  chromatograph step, 30 g/L were loaded
    in RunI and 40 g/L in Run 2 to challenge the impurity clearance capability of the
25  process.
                     Table 8 listed the antibody recovery step yields from these 2 runs and a
    process for purification not employing Protein A ("AY-04").
                                              81

      Table 8 Recovery yields in the studied Protein A process and AY-04 process
                                                 Protein A Process    AY-04
          Step Name                        Run I           Run 2      Mapping Data *
           Harvest Filtrate
          Protein A Capture                      91.81         97.12      86-91%
          Viral Inactive Filtration              91.00         97.65      97-98%
          Q Sepharose TM CC                      93.87         95.91     88-101%
           Phenyl Sepharose TM CC                91.57         96.63      87-91%
          Overall Chromatography                 71.81         87.90      72-82%
                 * Data from Tech-report ABC/TO R348
 5
                    Host Cell Proteins (HCP) are the major impurities generated by CHO
   cells. Besides impurities carried in harvest material, Protein A may leach from the
   protein A resin matrix into the product pool as a process related impurity. A good
   process must demonstrate its ability to clear HCP and leachable Protein A.
10                  HCP Clearance. Batch harvest material was applied to a MabSelectTM
   (2.6 x 20cm) column. HCP levels in the eluate were measured as described above and
   compared to the FractogelTM S eluate in an AY-04 process. The data demonstrated
   that MabSelectTM chromatography removed 99.9% HCP loaded and the FractogelTM S
   chromatography of AYO4 removed 88 ~ 93% HCP loaded. As expected, Protein A
15 affinity resin had better HCP clearance capability than FractogelTM S cation exchange
   resin.
                    Protein A Leachables. To detect Protein A leached from the resin
   matrix, a commercial ELISA kit (Cygnus Technologies, Inc) was used to determine
   Protein A content. The Protein A leached during the affinity step was approximately
20 6 ng/mg-antibody in the eluate. After fine purification with Q Sepharose TM and
   Phenyl HP, the leached protein A was significantly reduced to approximately
   0.02 ng/mg.
                    SDS-PAGE. A denatured reducing SDS-PAGE was conducted to
   compare the intermediate differences between Protein A process and AY-04 process.
25 2 tg of antibody of each sample was loaded. No obvious difference is observed in the
   gel (Figure 10).
                                              82

                   MabSelectTM Elution pH Study. In the case of Protein A affinity resin,
   antibody is bound at neutral pH and eluted under acidic condition. Since low pH viral
   reduction/inactivation is very efficient and widely used in monoclonal antibodies
   purification processes, the viral reduction/inactivation step can be simplified by
 5 holding the acidic MabSelectTM eluate for a sufficient time. The effect of elution pH
   on antibody recovery yield and product quality were studied. Elution around pH 3.2
   was selected as the MabSelectTM elution pH based on its highest recovery yield and
   acceptable product quality in terms of monomer percentage and total lysine variants.
                   Figure 11 demonstrates that a yield of at least 90% was obtained for an
10 elution pH range from 2.5 to 3.8 and a significant decrease in yield occurs at pH 4.
   This suggests that at an elution buffer pH higher than pH 4 could not sufficiently elute
   antibody from MabSelectTM resin.
                   Impact on Antibody Aggregation. All of antibody (Adalimumab)
   monomer levels in MabSelectTM eluates were higher than 92% (Figure 12). They all
15 met the in-process action limits (SEC HPLC monomer > 92%) of FractogelTM
   Chromatography in AY-04 process at an elution buffer pH range of 2.5 to 3.8,
   although higher elution pH generated less aggregates. Eluate holding time under
   acidic condition for 1 to 3 hours did not significantly affect antibody aggregation.
20         3.      Determination of Host Cell Protein Concentration in anti-IL-12
   Antibody Compositions
                   This procedure describes the testing methodology for the determination
   of residual Host Cell Protein concentration in anti-IL-12 antibody samples. Enzyme
   Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) is used to sandwich the Host Cell Protein
25 (Antigens) between two layers of specific antibodies. This is followed by the
   blocking of non-specific sites with Casein. The Host Cell Proteins are then incubated
   during which time the antigen molecules are captured by the first antibody (Coating
   Antibody). A second antibody (anti- Host Cell Protein Biotinylated) is then added
   which fixes to the antigen (Host Cell Proteins). Neutravidin HRP-conjugated is added
30 which binds to the Biotinylated anti-Host Cell Protein. This is followed by the
   addition of K blue substrate. The chromogenic substrate is hydrolyzed by the bound
   enzyme conjugated antibody, producing a blue color. Reaction is stopped with 2M
                                             83

   H 3PO4 , changing color to yellow. Color intensity is directly proportional to the
   amount of antigen bound in the well.
                    Preparation of 50 mM Sodium Bicarbonate (Coating Buffer), pH 9.4.
   To a 1 L beaker add: 900 mL Milli-Q water; 4.20 g + 0.01 g Sodium Bicarbonate. Stir
 5 until completely dissolved. Adjust pH to 9.4 with 1 N NaOH. Transfer to a 1 L
   volumetric flask and bring to volume with Milli-Q water. Mix by inversion until
   homogeneous. Filter through a 0.22 [tm sterile filter unit. Store at nominal 4'C for
   up to 7 days from the date of preparation.
                    Preparation of 0.104 M Na2HPO 4 * 7H 20, 1.37 M NaCl, 0.027 M KCl,
10 0.0176 M KH 2PO 4, pH = 6.8 - 6.9 (lOX PBS). Add approximately 400 mL of Milli-Q
   water to a glass beaker. Add 13.94g       0.01 gofNa2HPO 4 x 7H20. Add40.0Og0.1
   g of NaCl. Add 1.00 g ± 0.01 g of KCl. Add 1.20 g + 0.01 g of KH 2PO 4. Stir until
   homogeneous. Transfer to a 500 mL volumetric flask. QS to 500 mL volume with
   Milli-Q water. Mix by inversion. Filter through a 0.2 gm sterile filter unit. Store at
15 room temperature for up to 7 days.
                    Preparation of 1X PBS + 0.1% Triton X-100, pH 7.40: (Plate Wash
   Buffer). In a 4 L graduated cylinder, mix 400 mL 10 X PBS (step 5.2) with 3500 mL
   Milli-Q Water. Check pH, and adjust if necessary to 7.40 ± 0.05 with 1 N HCI or 1 N
   NaOH. Bring to volume with Milli-Q water. Tightly parafilm the cylinder and mix
20 by inversion until homogeneous. Transfer to a 4 L bottle. Remove 4 mL of the 1 X
   PBS and discard. Add 4 mL of triton X-100 to the 3996 mL of 1 X PBS. Place on
   stir plate and stir to completely dissolve. Filter the amount of plate wash buffer
   needed for dilution buffer preparation through a 0.22 pim sterile filter unit. Store at
   room temperature for up to 7 days.
25                  Preparation of Coating Antibody Mixture: goat anti CHO 599/626/748
   (lot # G 11201 @ 1.534 mg/mL), affinity purified: NOTE: Stocks stored at nominal
   80*C in vials. Prepare aliquots. Take out one aliquot per plate at time of use.
   Immediately before use: Dilute antibody mixture to have a final concentration of 4
   gg/mL in cold 50 mM Sodium Bicarbonate as follows. For example: add 31 gLs
30 coating antibody mixture to 11969 ptLs cold coating buffer. Mix gently by inversion.
                    Preparation of Biotinylated goat anti Host Cell Protein Mixture,
   599/626/748 (lot# GI 1202 @ 0.822 mg/mL): NOTE: Stocks stored at nominal -801C
   in vials. Prepare aliquots. Take out one aliquot per plate at time of use. Immediately
   before use: dilute biotinylated antibody mixture to have a final concentration of 1
                                             84

    pg/mL in 37'C + 2'C Casein as follows. For example: add 14.6 ptLs biotinylated
    antibody mixture to 11985 ptLs 37'C + 2*C Casein. Mix gently by inversion.
                   Preparation of Neutravidin-HRP. Reconstitute new lots (2 mg/vial) to
    1 mg/mL as follows: Add 400 pL of Milli-Q water to the vial, then add 1600 jiL 1X
 5 PBS, for a total of 2 mL. Vortex gently to mix. Store at nominal - 20*C. Prepare
    aliquots with desired volume so that 1 aliqout per plate is used. Prepare in
   polypropylene tube. Qualify new lots to determine working concentration. Assign
    expiry of 6 months from the date of preparation. For example, if the working
   concentration was determined to be 0.2 pg/mL then prepare as follows. Immediately
10 before use: thaw an aliquot of Neutravidin-HRP at room temperature. Dilute the 1
   mg/mL Neutravidin solution to 0.1 mg/mL (100 jig/mL) with 37*C I 2'C Casein. For
   example: Dilute X10, add 50 tL of neutravidin to 450 pL of Casein. Vortex gently to
   mix. Further dilute the 100 ig/mL solution to 0.2 pg/mL with 37*C ± 2 0 C Casein.
   For example: Dilute X500, add 24 ptL neutravidin (100 pg/mL) to 11976 pL of
15 Casein. Vortex gently to mix.
                   Preparation of 5.7 2M Phosphoric Acid (Stop Solution). Prepare a 2 M
   Phosphoric acid solution from concentrated phosphoric acid as follows. From the %
   phosphoric acid stated on the label, density (1.685g/mL) and formula weight (98
   g/mole), calculate the volume of concentrated phosphoric acid needed to prepare 500
20 mL of 2M phosphoric acid. Add the volume of concentrated phosphoric acid
   calculated above to the flask. Bring to volume with Milli-Q water and mix by
   inversion until homogeneous. Store at ambient temperature for up to 6 months from
   the date of preparation.
                   Preparation of Dilution Buffer (Casein diluted X100 in 1X PBS + 0.1
25 % Triton X100, pH 7.4). Dilute 37 0 C ± 2 'C Casein X100 in 0.22 pLm sterile filtered
    1X PBS + 0.1 % Triton X100, pH 7.4 (from above). For example: Add 1 mL of 370 C
   ± 2 *C Casein to 99 mL 0.22 pm sterile filtered IX PBS + 0.1 % Triton X100, pH 7.4.
   Mix well. Prepare fresh for each use.
                   Preparation of Standards. Host cell Protein Standards (Antigen
30 Standards) (lot # GI 1203  @  1.218 mg/mL): NOTE: Stocks stored at nominal -80*C
   in 70 gL aliquots. Thaw an aliquot at room temperature. Perform serial dilutions in
   polypropylene tubes using Dilution buffer.
                   Preparation of Samples. In polypropylene tubes, dilute final bulk
   samples to 24 mg/mL in Dilution Buffer. Record concentration. NOTE: use the
                                            85

   solutions below to prepare spiked samples and to prepare the 12 mg/mL solutions
   referenced below. In polypropylene microtubes, further dilute the 24 mg/mL
   solutions to 12 mg/mL in Dilution Buffer. Load triplicate wells for each of the 12
   mg/mL solutions on the plate for a total of 6 wells.
 5                  Preparation of Spike. In a polypropylene microtube, prepare a 10
   ng/mL Host Cell Protein spike from the 20 ng/mL standard prepared above by
   diluting it 2 X with Dilution Buffer. Load three wells for the 10 ng/mL spike solution
   onto the plate. Use the 20 ng/mL standard solution from step 6.1 for spiking samples.
                    Preparation of Spiked Samples. In polypropylene microtubes, spike
10 300 piL of each 24 mg/mL final bulk solution with 300 p.L of the 20 ng/mL spike
   solution (6.1). Load triplicate wells for each spiked sample solution for a total of 6
   wells.
                    Preparation of Control. A control range must be set for every new
   control stock solution, before use in routine testing. Control Stock: Prepare 150 pL
15 aliquots of a batch of ABT-874 Drug Substance Concentrate and store frozen at
   nominal -80'C for up to three years.
                    Preparation of Working Control. Thaw an aliquot of control at room
   temperature. In polypropylene tubes, dilute control to 24 mg/mL with Dilution Buffer.
   In polypropylene microtubes, further dilute the 24 mg/mL control solution with
20 dilution buffer to 12 mg/mL. Prepare a single dilution and load control into 3 wells of
   the plate.
                    ELISA procedures. Fill plate wash bottle with plate wash buffer (refer
   to step 5.3, 1X PBS + 0.1% Triton X-100). Prime plate washer. Check the following
   parameters: Parameters should be set to: Plate Type: 1 For each Cycle (a total of 5
25 cycles): Volume: 400 gls; Soak Time: 10 seconds; Asp. Time: 4 seconds.
                    Assay Procedure. Coat plates with 100 ptL/well of 4 tg/mL goat
   coating antibody mixture in cold 50 mM Sodium Bicarbonate. Tap the side of the
   plate until the coating solution covers the bottom of the wells uniformly, cover with
   sealing tape and incubate at nominal 4 'C while shaking on plate shaker (or
30 equivalent) at speed 3 for 18 hours 1 1 hour. After overnight incubation, remove
   plate from refrigerator and allow to equilibrate to room temperature. Shake out
   coating. Blot plate on paper towels. Block with 300 pL/well of 37'C ± 2'C Casein,
   cover with sealing tape and incubate at 37*C ± 2*C while shaking on Lab-line
   Environ plate shaker (or equivalent) at 80 rpm 15 rpm for 1 hour. Prepare standard,
                                             86

   sample, control, spike, and spiked samples during blocking incubation. Wash the
   plate 5 times with Wash Buffer. Blot plate on paper towels. Using an 8-channel
   pipette, pipet 100 gL/well of standards, samples, spikes, spiked samples, and control
   into triplicate wells of the plate. Pipette 100 piL/well of Dilution Buffer into all empty
 5 wells of the plate to serve as blanks. Cover with sealing tape and incubate at 374C ± 2
   'C while shaking on Lab-line Environ plate shaker (or equivalent) at 80 rpm ± 5 rpm
   for 1 hour. Fill out a template to use as a guide when loading plate.
                    Plate Reader Set-Up. Set up template, entering concentrations for
   standards. Do not enter dilution factors for samples, control, spike, or spiked samples.
10 Assign the wells containing diluent as blanks to be subtracted from all wells. Wash
   the plate 5 times with Wash Buffer. Blot plate on paper towels. Add 100 jiL/well
   biotinylated goat antibody. Cover with sealing tape and incubate at 37'C ± 2'C while
   shaking on Lab-line Environ plate shaker (or equivalent) at 80 rpm + 5 rpm for 1
   hour. Wash the plate 5 times with Wash Buffer. Blot plate on paper towels. Add 100
15 gL/well Neutravidin-HRP conjugate solution. Cover with sealing tape and incubate
   at 37'C ± 2'C while shaking on Lab-line Environ plate shaker (or equivalent) at 80
   rpm L 5 rpm for 1 hour. Wash the plate 5 times with Wash Buffer. Blot plate on
   paper towels. Add 100 pL/well cold K-Blue substrate, cover with sealing tape and
   incubate at room temperature for 10 minutes (start timer as soon as substrate is added
20 to first row), while shaking speed 3 on Lab-line titer plate shaker (or equivalent).
   Stop the reaction by adding 100 pL/well 2M Phosphoric Acid (Step 5.7). Place plate
   on a plate shaker at speed 3 for 3-5 minutes. Read plate at 450 nm.
                    Data Analysis and Calculations. NOTE: only samples, spikes, spiked
   samples, and control, with optical densities falling within the practical quantitation
25 limit (2.5 ng/mL standard) of the standard curve and meeting the % CV or %
   difference criteria stated below, are accepted. If sample OD's fall below the 2.5
   ng/mL standard, result should be reported as less than 2.5 ng/mL. This value should
   then be divided by the diluted sample concentration (12 mg/mL) to report value in
   ng/mg. If sample is high in host cell concentration causing the non-spiked and/or the
30 spiked sample to be above standard curve, report value as > 100 ng/mL. This value
   should then be divided by the diluted sample concentration (12 mg/mL) to report
   value in ng/mg. Consider sample value zero for spike recovery calculations when the
   sample is below the 2.5 ng/mL standard.
                                              87

                   Standard Curve. Standard concentrations should be entered into the
   protocol template. A quadratic curve fit is used. Coefficient of determination must be
   = 0.99 and the % CV between triplicate wells must be      = 20%. If this criteria is not
   met: One standard (1 level, 3 wells) may be dropped. If the 1.25 ng/mL is dropped,
 5 only samples and spiked samples with optical densities falling within the 2.5 ng/mL
   and 100 ng/mL (the remaining standard curve points) optical densities are acceptable.
   Additionally, for the triplicates of each standard level, if a single well is clearly
   contaminated or shows low binding, it may be dropped. If a well is dropped from a
   standard level, the remaining replicates must have a % difference     = 20%. The % CV
10 for the lowest standard, which shows OD values close to the background (blanks) of
   the plate, should be = 30%. If one well is dropped, the % difference for the remaining
   replicates must be = 35%. If the lowest standard is dropped, only samples and spiked
   samples with optical densities falling within the remaining standard curve level
   optical densities are acceptable.
15                 Samples. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells. Report %
   CV between triplicate wells. One well from each sample dilution may be dropped.
   The remaining replicates must have a % difference of = 20%. Note: if non-spiked
   sample OD is below the 2.5 ng/mL standard OD the % difference criteria does not
   apply to the non-spiked results. Refer to calculation above.
20                 Calculate actual Host Cell Concentration in ng/mg from the mean
   (ng/mL) value as follows: CHO Host Cell Protein (ng/mg) = Mean "Non-spiked
   sample result (ng/mL)"_ Diluted sample concentration (12 mg/mL).
                   Spikes. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells. Record %
   CV. One well from the spike may be dropped. The remaining points must have a %
25 difference = 20%. Refer to calculation in above. Report host cell concentration in
   ng/mL. This result will be used in spike recovery calculations. The resulting
   concentration for the spike (ng/mL) must be ± 20% of the theoretical spike
   concentration. Record result and indicate Pass or Fail. If the spike result is not within
   20% of theoretical, the assay must be repeated. Mean Spike Concentration (ng/mL) x
30 100 = must be 100% + 20% 10 ng/mL.
                   Spiked Samples. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells.
   Record % CV between triplicate wells. One well from each spiked sample dilution
   may be dropped. The remaining replicates must have a % difference of= 20%. Refer
   to calculation above. Report "Spiked sample result" for each dilution in ng/mL.
                                             88

   Record % difference between duplicate dilutions. The % difference between dilutions
   should be = 25%. These results will be used in the spike recovery calculations.
                    Calculate % Spike Recovery for each dilution set using the formula
   below: % Spike Recovery = Spiked sample value - Non-Spiked Sample Value X 100
 5 Spike Value. NOTE: (1) If non-spiked sample value OD's fall below the 2.5 ng/mL
   standard consider value as zero in % spike recovery calculation. % Spike recovery
   must be 100% ± 50% (50% - 150%) for each dilution for each sample. Record results
   and Pass / Fail.
                    Control. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells. Record %
10 CV result. One well from the control may be dropped. The remaining replicates must
   have a % difference of= 20%. Refer to calculation above. Report Host Cell
   concentration in the control in ng/mL. Calculate Host Cell concentration in ng/mg as
   follows: Host Cell Protein (ng/mg)   =  Control Host Cell Protein result in ng/mL.
15         4.       Determination of Protein A Concentration in anti-IL-12 Antibody
   Compositions
                    In this ELISA, plates are coated with Chicken Anti-Protein A and
   incubated. Non-specific sites are blocked with casein in PBS. Plates are washed in
    IX PBS + 0.1% Triton X-100 to remove unbound material. Samples and Cys
20 rprotein A standards are diluted in 1X PBS + 4.1% Triton X + 10% Casein. The
   solutions are denatured by heating at 950 C ± 2' C, separating Protein A from ABT
   874. The solutions are then added to the plate and incubated. Unbound material is
   washed off with IX PBS + 0.1% Triton X-100. Biotinylated Chicken Anti-Protein A
   is added to the microtiter plate and incubated. The plate is washed to remove
25 unbound material and Neutravidin - Peroxidase conjugate is added.
                    The Neutravidin will bind to the Biotinylated Chicken Anti-Protein A
   that has bound to the wells. The plate is washed again to remove the unbound
   Neutravidin and K-Blue (tetramethylbenzidine (TMB)) substrate is added to the plate.
   The substrate is hydrolyzed by the bound Neutravidin producing a blue color. The
30 reaction is stopped with Phosphoric Acid, changing color to yellow. The intensity of
   the yellow color in the wells is directly proportional to the concentration of Protein A
   present in the wells.
                                             89

                   Preparation of Reagents and Solutions Casein bottles must be warmed
   to 37'C ± 2'C; sonicated for 2 minutes, and aliquoted. Aliquots are to be stored at
   nominal 4'C. When assay is to be run, the number of casein aliquots needed, should
   be placed at 37'C ± 2'C. The coating buffer and substrate are used cold (taken from
 5 nominal 4'C right before use).
                    50 mM Sodium Bicarbonate (Coating Buffer), pH 9.4. To a 1 L beaker
   add: 900 mL Milli-Q water 4.20 g ± 0.01 g Sodium Bicarbonate. Stir until completely
   dissolved. Adjust pH to 9.4 with 1 N NaOH. Transfer to a 1 L volumetric flask and
   bring to volume with Milli-Q water. Mix by inversion until homogeneous. Filter
10 through a 0.22 CA gm sterile filter unit. Store at nominal 4'C for up to 7 days from
   the date of preparation.
                    104 M Na 2HPO 4 * 7H20, 1.37 M NaCl, 0.027 M KCl, 0.0176 M
   KH 2 PO 4 , pH = 6.8 - 6.9. (10 X PBS): Add approximately 400 mL of Milli-Q water to
   a glass beaker. Add 13.94 g ± 0.01 g of Na 2HPO 4 x 7H20. Add 40.0 g ± 0.1 g of
15 NaCl. Add 1.00 g ± 0.01 g of KCl. Add 1.20 g± 0.01 g of KH 2 PO 4 . Stir until
   homogeneous. Transfer to a 500 mL volumetric flask. QS to 500 mL volume with
   Milli-Q water. Mix by inversion. Filter through a 0.2 CA pm sterile filter unit. Store
   at room temperature for up to 7 days.
                    IX PBS + 0.1% Triton X-100, pH 7.40: (Plate Wash Buffer). In a4 L
20 graduated cylinder, mix 400 mL 10 X PBS (see above) with 3500 mL Milli-Q Water.
   Check pH, and adjust if necessary to 7.40 ± 0.05 with 1 N HCl or 1 N NaOH. Bring
   to volume with Milli-Q water. Tightly parafilm the cylinder and mix by inversion
   until homogeneous. Transfer to a 4 L bottle. Remove 4 mL of the 1 X PBS and
   discard. Add 4 mL of triton X-100 to the 3996 mL of 1 X PBS. Place on stir plate
25 and stir to completely dissolve. Store at room temperature for up to 7 days.
                   Chicken Anti-Protein A Coating Antibody. Take out one aliquot of
   antibody per plate at time of use. To qualify new lots of Chicken Anti-Protein A, it
   may be necessary to use and qualify Chicken Anti-Protein A-Biotin Conjugated
   (prepared from the same lot of coating) together. Immediately before use: Dilute
30 antibody mixture in cold 50 mM Sodium Bicarbonate to the concentration determined
   during coating qualification. For example: If during qualification the concentration of
   coating to load on the plate was determined to be 6 gg/mL and if the stock
   concentration is 3000 pg/mL, then add 24 ItLs coating antibody to 11976 pLs cold
   coating buffer. Mix gently by inversion.
                                            90

                   Biotinylated Chicken anti Protein A. Take out one aliquot of antibody
   per plate at time of use. To qualify new lots of Chicken Anti-Protein A-Biotin
   Conjugated, it may be necessary to use and qualify it with the same lot of Chicken
   Anti-Protein A it was prepared from. Immediately before use: Dilute biotinylated
 5 antibody in 37'C ± 2'C Casein to the concentration determined during biotinylated
   antibody qualification. For example: If during qualification the concentration of
   biotinylated antibody to load on the plate was determined to be 4 pg/mL and if the
   stock concentration is 1000 gg/mL, then add 48 pLs biotinylated antibody to 11952
   pLs 37'C ± 2'C Casein. Mix gently by inversion.
10                 Neutravidin-HRP. Reconstitute new lots (2 mg/vial) to 1 mg/mL as
   follows: Add 400 pL of Milli-Q water to the vial, then add 1600 pL 1X PBS, for a
   total of 2 mL. Vortex gently to mix. Store at nominal -80 C. Prepare aliquots with
   desired volume so that 1 aliqout per plate is used. Prepare in polypropylene tube.
   Assign expiration date of 6 months from the date of preparation. For example, if the
15 working concentration was determined to be 0.1 ptg/mL then prepare as follows.
   Immediately before use, thaw an aliquot of Neutravidin-HRP at room temperature.
   Dilute the 1 mg/mL Neutravidin solution to 0.01 mg/mL (10 Rg/mL) with 37'C L2'C
   Casein. For example: Dilute X10, add 50 pL of neutravidin to 450 gL of Casein.
   Vortex gently to mix, X10 again, add 100 pL of X10 neutravidin to 900 RL of Casein.
20 Vortex gently to mix. Further dilute the 10 pg/mL solution to 0.1 gg/mL with 37'C ±
   2'C Casein. For example: Dilute X100, add 120 gL neutravidin (10 pg/mL) to 11880
   RL of Casein. Invert several times gently to mix.
                   Stop Solution (Purchased 1 N Phosphoric Acid is used.) Store at
   ambient temperature for up to 1 year from the date of receipt. Dilution Buffer (lX
25 PBS + 4.1% Triton X100 + 10% Casein, pH 7.4). Add 86 mL of 1X PBS + 0.1%
   Triton X100, pH 7.4 (from Step 5.3) to a beaker or flask, add 4 mL of Triton X-100,
   and 10 mL of Blocker Casein in PBS, and stir to dissolve/mix. It may take 20 to 30
   minutes to dissolve triton. This equals a 1X PBS + 4.1% Triton X100 + 10% Casein,
   pH 7.4 solution. Filter through a 0.22 CA gm sterile filter unit. Prepare fresh for
30 each use. This is enough for 1 plate.
                   Protein A Standards (Antigen Standards). NOTE: Stocks stored at
   nominal -20 0 C in 70 pLL aliquots. Thaw an aliquot on ice. Perform serial dilutions
   according to the examples in the table below polypropylene tubes using Dilution
   buffer (see above) using the concentration stated on the manufacturers COA: For
                                           91

     example if COA states stock concentration is 2.1 mg/mL (2100000 ng/mL) then:
     Thaw samples on ice. In polypropylene microcentrifuge tubes, dilute final bulk
     samples to 20 mg/mL in Dilution Buffer (above). Perform 2 separate dilutions.
     Record concentration. Use the solutions below to prepare spiked samples and to
  5  prepare the 10 mg/mL solutions. For example: Conc. (mg/mL) Vol. gL of X mg/mL
     solution Vol. of diluent (pL) Serial Dilution From 120 stock sample. In
     polypropylene microcentrifuge tubes, further dilute the 20 mg/mL solutions to 10
     mg/mL in Dilution Buffer.
                     Preparation of Spike. In a polypropylene microcentrifuge tube,
 10 prepare a 0.296 ng/mL Protein A spike from the 0.593 ng/mL standard prepared
     above in Step 6.1 by diluting it 2 X with Dilution Buffer. Perform a single dilution.
     Triplicate wells for the 0.296 ng/mL spike solution will be loaded onto the plate. Use
    the 0.593 ng/mL standard solution from Step 6.1 for spiking samples.
                     Preparation of Spiked Samples. In polypropylene microcentrifuge
15  tubes, spike 500 pL of each 20 mg/mL final bulk solution with 500 gL of the 0.593
    ng/mL spike solution. Hold for denaturation. Triplicate wells for each spiked sample
     solution will be loaded on the plate for a total of 6 wells.
                     Preparation of Control. Obtain a lot of ABT-874 Drug Substance.
    Prepare 150 pL aliquots and store frozen at nominal - 80 *C for three years from the
20  date aliquoted.
                     Working Control: Thaw an aliquot of control on ice. In a
    polypropylene microcentrifuge tube, dilute control to 10 mg/mL with Dilution Buffer
    to have a final volume of 1000 pLs. Prepare a single dilution. Hold for denaturation.
    Triplicate wells of control will be loaded onto the plate.
25                   Denaturation. For plate blanks, add 1000 pLs of dilution buffer to
    microcentrifuge tubes equal to the number of blanks that will be run on the plate. The
    caps of the tubes may be parafilmed to prevent them from popping open during
    heating or a second rack may be placed on top of them to keep caps closed. Heat
    standards, non-spiked samples, spiked samples, spike, blanks, and control, at 95*C
30  2' C for 15 minutes. Remove parafilm from tubes during cooling, if used. Allow to
    cool for 15 minutes, and centrifuge for 5 minutes at approximately 10000 rpm.
    Transfer 700 pLs of the supernatant into microtubes to load on plate. Be careful not
    to disturb the triton/protein pellet.
                                              92

                   Plate Washer Instructions and Waterbath Set-Up. Fill plate wash
   bottle with plate wash buffer (refer to Step 5.3, 1X PBS + 0.1% Triton X-100). Prime
   plate washer. Check the following parameters: Parameters should be set to: Plate
   Type: 1 For each Cycle (a total of 4 cycles): Asp speed: 10 mm/s; Volume: 400 pls;
 5 Soak Time: 5 seconds; Asp. Time: 6 seconds. Turn on waterbath and set to 950 C.
   Allow waterbath temperature to equilibrate to 95' C ± 2' C for at least 30 minutes.
                   Assay Procedure: A Checklist can be used as a guide by checking off
   steps as they are completed. Additionally, record all equipment used during the assay.
   The amount of Casein aliquots to be used for each day the assay will be run must be
10 placed at 37'C + 2'C. The coating Buffer and substrate are used cold. Prepare
   standard, sample, control, spike, and spiked samples prior to and during blocking
   incubation. It may take longer than the 1 hour block incubation to prepare dilutions,
   transfer to eppendorf tubes, denature for 15 minutes, cool for 15 minutes, centrifuge
   for 5 minutes, and to transfer to microtubes. Allow at least 40 minutes prior to
15 blocking plates. Samples, Spiked Samples, Standards, Control, Assay Spike, and
   Blanks, are loaded on the plate horizontally from rows B through G using a 12
   channel pipette. Standards are loaded from high to low concentration. Plate coating,
   biotin addition, neutravidin addition, substrate addition, and stop solution addition are
   done vertically from columns 2 through 11.
20                 Coat plates with 100 pL/well of coating antibody in cold 50 mM
   Sodium Bicarbonate. Tap the side of the plate until the coating solution covers the
   bottom of the wells uniformly, cover with sealing tape and incubate at nominal 4' C
   while shaking on plate shaker (or equivalent) at speed 3.
                   After overnight incubation, remove plate from refrigerator and allow to
25 equilibrate to room temperature. Shake out coating. Blot plate on paper towels.
   Block with 300 pL/well of 37*C + 2*C Casein, cover with sealing tape and incubate
   at 37'C ± 2'C while shaking on Lab-line Environ plate shaker (or equivalent) at 80
   rpm L5 rpm for 1 hour + 10 minutes.
                   Prepare standard, sample, control, spike, and spiked samples prior to
30 and during blocking incubation. Wash the plate 4 times with Wash Buffer. Blot plate
   on paper towels. Using an 8-channel pipette, pipet 100 pL/well of denatured
   standards, samples, spikes, spiked samples, blanks, and control into triplicate wells of
   the plate. The outside wells of the plate are not used, add non-treated dilution buffer
   to these wells. Cover with sealing tape and incubate at 37*C + 2 C while shaking on
                                            93

   Lab-line Environ plate shaker (or equivalent) at 80 rpm ± 5 rpm for 2 hours. Fill out a
   template to use as a guide when loading plate.
                   Plate Reader Set-Up. Wash the plate 4 times with Wash Buffer. Blot
   plate on paper towels. Add 100 pL/well biotinylated antibody. Cover with sealing
 5 tape and incubate at 37 0 C ± 2'C while shaking on Lab-line Environ plate shaker (or
   equivalent) at 80 rpm ± 5 rpm for 1 hour.
                   Wash the plate 4 times with Wash Buffer. Blot plate on paper towels.
   Add 100 gL/well Neutravidin-HRP conjugate solution. Start timer as soon as
   neutravidin is added to the last row. Cover with sealing tape and incubate at 37C
10 2'C while shaking on Lab-line Environ plate shaker (or equivalent) at 80 rpm ± 5 rpm
   for 30 minutes. Wash the plate 4 times with Wash Buffer. Blot plate on paper towels.
   Add 100 jiL/well cold K-Blue substrate, cover with sealing tape and incubate at room
   temperature for 10 minutes (start timer as soon as substrate is added to first row),
   while shaking speed 3 on Lab-line titer plate shaker (or equivalent). Stop the reaction
15 by adding 100 pL/well I N Phosphoric Acid. Place plate on a plate shaker at speed 3
   for 3 minutes. Read plate at 450 nm.
                   Data Analysis and Calculations NOTE: Only samples, spikes, spiked
   samples, and control, with optical densities falling within the practical quantitation
   limit of the standard curve and meeting the % CV or % difference criteria stated
20 below, are accepted. If sample OD's fall below standard curve, result should be
   reported as less than 0.18 ng/mL (assay LOQ). This value should then be divided by
   the diluted sample concentration (10 mg/mL) to report value in ng/mg. If the sample
   is high in Protein A concentration causing the non-spiked and/or the spiked sample to
   be above standard curve (2 ng/mL), then dilute further to be within the standard curve.
25 This value should then be divided by the diluted sample concentration to report value
   in ng/mg. For spike recovery calculations, subtract non-spiked sample value (ng/mL)
   from spiked sample value (ng/mL) even when the non-spiked sample value (ng/mL) is
   below the curve. If value is negative or 'range' is obtained then consider non-spiked
   sample as zero for spike recovery calculations.
30                 Standard Curve. Standard concentrations should be entered into the
   protocol template. A quadratic curve fit is used. Coefficient of determination must be
   = 0.99 and the % CV between triplicate wells must be = 20%. If this criteria is not
   met: One standard (1 level, 3 wells) may be dropped. If the 0.18 ng/mL is dropped,
   only samples and spiked samples with optical densities falling within the 0.26 ng/mL
                                           94

   and 2 ng/mL (the remaining standard curve points) optical densities are acceptable.
   Additionally, for the triplicates of each standard level, if a single well is clearly
   contaminated or shows low binding, it may be dropped. If a well is dropped from a
   standard level, the remaining replicates must have a % difference = 20%. The % CV
 5 for the lowest standard, which shows OD values close to the background (blanks) of
   the plate, should be = 30%. If one well is dropped, the % difference for the remaining
   replicates must be = 35%. If the lowest standard is dropped, only samples and spiked
   samples with optical densities falling within the remaining standard curve level
   optical densities are acceptable.
10                 Calculate % Difference as follows: % Difference = (Abs. (result
   dilution 1 - result dilution 2)/mean value) X 100%. The assay must be repeated if the
   standards do not meet the above criteria. Report % CV and/or % difference values
   and standard Curve Coefficient of determination results.
                   Samples. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells. Report %
15 CV between triplicate wells. One well from each sample dilution may be dropped.
   The remaining replicates must have a % difference of = 20%. Note: If non-spiked
   sample OD is below lowest standard OD the % difference criteria does not apply to
   the non-spiked results. Refer to calculation above.
                   Report "Non-spiked sample result" for each dilution in ng/mL. These
20 values will be used in spike recovery calculations. Calculate the mean "Non-spiked
   sample result (ng/mL)" and the % difference between dilutions. Report results. %
   Difference between dilutions must be     = 25%. Calculate actual Protein A
   Concentration in ng/mg from the mean (ng/mL) value as follows: Protein A (ng/mg)=
   Mean "Non-spiked sample result (ng/mL)" Diluted sample concentration (10 mg/mL).
25 Record result.
                   Spikes. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells. Record %
   CV. One well from the spike may be dropped. The remaining points must have a %
   difference  = 20%. Refer to calculation above. Report protein A concentration in
   ng/mL. This result will be used in spike recovery calculations. The resulting
30 concentration for the spike (ng/mL) must be + 20% of the theoretical spike
   concentration. Record result and indicate Pass or Fail. If the spike result is not within
   20% of theoretical, the assay must be repeated. Mean Spike Concentration (ng/mL) x
   100 = must be 100% ± 20% 0.296 ng/mL
                                             95

                   Spiked Samples. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells.
   Record % CV between triplicate wells. One well from each spiked sample dilution
   may be dropped. The remaining replicates must have a % difference of= 20%. Refer
   to calculation above. Report "Spiked sample result" for each dilution in ng/mL.
 5 Record % difference between duplicate dilutions. The % difference between dilutions
   should be  = 25%. These results will be used in the spike recovery calculations.
   Calculate % Spike Recovery for each dilution set using the formula below: % Spike
   Recovery   = Spiked sample value - Non-Spiked Sample Value X 100. Spike Value
   NOTE: For spike recovery calculations, subtract non-spiked sample value (ng/mL)
10 from spiked sample value (ng/mL) even when the non-spiked sample value (ng/mL) is
   below the curve. If value is negative or 'range' is obtained then consider non-spiked
   sample as zero for spike recovery calculations. % Spike recovery must be 100% +
   50% (50% - 150%) for each dilution for each sample. Record results and Pass/Fail.
                   Control. % CV should be = 20% between triplicate wells. Record %
15 CV result. One well from the control may be dropped. The remaining replicates must
   have a % difference of= 20%.
                   Various publications are cited herein, the contents of which are hereby
   incorporated by reference in their entireties.
                                            96

   CLAIMS:
    1.     A method for producing a host cell-protein (HCP) reduced antibody
   preparation from a sample mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP, said
 5 method comprising:
           (a)     subjecting said sample matrix to a reduction in pH thus forming a
   primary recovery sample, wherein said reduction in pH is from about 3 to about about
   4;
           (b)     adjusting said primary recovery sample to a pH of about 6.0 to about 8
10 followed by contacting said primary recovery sample to an affinity chromatography
   resin and collecting an affinity chromatography sample;
           (c)     contacting said affinity chromatography sample to an ion exchange
   resin and collecting an ion exchange sample;
           (d)     contacting said ion exchange sample to a hydrophobic interactive
15 chromatography (HIC) resin and collecting an HIC sample, wherein said HIC sample
   comprises said HCP-reduced antibody preparation.
   2.      The method of claim 1, wherein said reduction in pH is accomplished by
   admixing a suitable acid with said sample mixture, and wherein said suitable acid is
   selected from the group consisting of citric acid, acetic acid, caprylic acid, and the
20 like.
   3.      The method of claim 1, wherein said affinity chromatography resin is a
   Protein A resin.
   4.      The method of claim 3, wherein said Protein A resin is MabSelectTM resin.
   5.      The method of claim 1, wherein said ion exchange resin is either an anion
25 exchange resin or a cation exchange resin.
   6.      The method of claim 5, wherein said ion exchange resin is a cation exchange
   resin.
                                             97

   7.      The method of claim 6, wherein said cation exchange resin is selected from
   the group consisting of Fractogel, carboxymethyl (CM), sulfoethyl(SE),
   sulfopropyl(SP), phosphate(P) and sulfonate(S).
   8.      The method of claim 7, wherein said cation exchange resin is FractogelTM S03
 5
   9.      The method of claim 5, wherein said ion exchange resin is an anion exchange
   resin.
   10.     The method of claim 9, wherein said anion exchange resin is selected from the
   group consisting of Q sepharose, diethylaminoethyl (DEAE), quaternary
10 aminoethyl(QAE), and quaternary amine(Q) groups.
   11.     The method of claim 11, wherein said anion exchange resin is Q-sepharose.
   12.     The method of claim 1, wherein said ion exchange step comprises a first ion
   exchange step and a second ion exchange step.
   13.     The method of claim 1, wherein said HIC is accomplished using a column
15 comprising one or more hydrophobic groups.
   14.     The method of claim 13, wherein said one or more hydrophobic groups are
   selected from the group consisting of alkyl-, aryl-groups, and a combination thereof.
   15.     The method of claim 14, wherein said column is selected from the group
   consisting of phenyl sepharose (such as Phenyl SepharoseTM 6 Fast Flow column,
20 Phenyl Sepharose TM High Performance column), Octyl Sepharose TM High
   Performance column, FractogelTM EMD Propyl, FractogelTM EMD Phenyl columns,
   Macro-Prep TM Methyl, Macro-Prep TM t-Butyl Supports, WP HI-Propyl          (C 3 )TM
   column, and ToyopearlTM ether, phenyl or butyl columns.
   16.     The method of claim 15, wherein said column comprises phenyl sepharose.
25 17.     The method of claim 1 further comprising a filtration step, wherein said HIC
   sample is subjected to filtration to remove viral particles and to facilitate buffer
   exchange.
                                            98

     18.     The method of claim 1, wherein said HCP-reduced antibody preparation
    comprises either an anti-IL-12 antibody or an antigen-binding portion thereof, or an
    anti-TNFax antibody or an antigen-binding portion thereof.
     19.     The method of claim 18, wherein said HCP-reduced antibody preparation is an
  5 anti-IL-12 antibody or an antigen-binding portion thereof.
    20.      The method of claim 18, wherein said HCP-reduced antibody preparation is an
    anti-TNFa antibody or an antigen-binding portion thereof.
    21.      The method of claim 19, wherein said anti-IL-12 antibody or antigen-binding
    portion thereof is a humanized antibody, a chimeric antibody, or a multivalent
10  antibody.
    22.      The method of claim 19, wherein said anti-TNFa antibody or antigen-binding
    portion thereof is a humanized antibody, a chimeric antibody, or a multivalent
    antibody.
    23.      The method of claim 21, wherein said anti-IL-12 antibody or antigen-binding
15  portion thereof is a humanized antibody.
    24.      The method of claim 22, wherein said anti-TNFa antibody or antigen-binding
    portion thereof is a humanized antibody.
    25.      The method of claim 1, wherein said preparation is substantially free of HCPs.
    26.      The method of claim 1 further comprising depth filtration.
20  27.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising an HCP-reduced antibody
    preparation produced by the method of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier.
    28.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 27, wherein said antibody is either
    an anti-IL-12 antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof, or an anti-TNFac antibody
25  or antigen-binding portion thereof.
                                            99

29.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 27, wherein said composition is
substantially free of HCPs.
                                        AbbVie Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the ApplicantlNominated Person
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                             100

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
