   Abstract
                          PLACENTAL BLOOD EXTRACTION DEVICE
 5 A placental blood extraction device comprises a receptacle for receiving a placenta
   with umbilical cord, the receptacle comprising a compartment arranged to receive the
   placenta; and a tube extending from the compartment for receiving the umbilical cord;
   wherein the receptacle is selectively removable from the device for receiving the
   placenta. The placental blood extraction device may comprise a pressure application
10 device for applying pressure to a placenta, the pressure application device comprising
   a plurality of pressing members for applying pressure on a plurality of regions of the
   placenta.
   Figure 1

           1/16
  24
20
     22
        3
          Fig. 1

                         PLACENTAL BLOOD EXTRACTION DEVICE
   Field of Technology
   The present invention relates to a device and method for extracting and/or collecting
 5 placental blood.
   Background
   It is well known that umbilical cord blood (UCB) is an increasingly important and rich
   source of stem cells. It is known that stem cells can divide to create new red blood cells
10 which carry oxygen to the brain, new white blood cells used in the body's immune
   system and new platelets which can assist in blood clotting. It is currently estimated
   that stem cells may be used for the treatment of over 45 malignant and non-malignant
   diseases. Such diseases may include certain cancers such as leukaemia, immune and
   genetic disorders.
15
   UCB may also provide a readily available source of stem cells for transplantation in
   many situations where bone marrow is currently used. Hence, the use of UCB instead
   of other sources of stem cells such as for example bone marrow and peripheral blood
   has many advantages. Such may include for example the reduction or elimination of
20 risk involved in the collection of UCB.
   UCB is also easier to collect and harvest while avoiding the risks associated with
   general anesthesia, which is required for the purposes of extracting bone marrow. UCB
   is also readily available when needed, assuming an efficient and systematic collection
25 and storage procedure. It has been found that UCB is also more often compatible with
   people undergoing transplants. Furthermore UCB has a lower procurement cost. It has
   also been demonstrated that UCB has broader potential clinical applications for
   improving neural repair, bone and tissue growth.
30 As such, the importance of UCB is now widely recognized. Blood centres worldwide
   may collect and store UCB after delivery of a baby subject to the parents' consent or
   request.
   However, a problem associated with UCB is that its collection appears to be a one time
                                                1

   possibility and the amount of blood that can be collected is limited using current blood
   collection technology. Such current blood collection technology may include syringe
   assisted and gravity assisted methods.
 5 A conventional placental blood extraction device include a chamber for receiving a
   placenta and pressure application mechanism for applying a pressure to the surface of
   the placenta to assist extracting as much placental blood as possible.
   However, it has been particularly cumbersome to place a placenta properly into the
10 chamber, and particular caution must be taken to prevent the device from being
   contaminated by the placenta before a second one is placed into the device. Cross
   contamination between placentas must also be avoided. A known method of preventing
   contamination is to provide a disposable membrane around the internal surface of the
   chamber before placing the placenta.
15
   Further, the device needs to be sterilized between two successive extraction processes.
   This takes more time and manpower to prepare the device after a first extraction
   process and before a second extraction and collection process.
20 Summary of Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a placental blood extraction device comprising a
   receptacle for receiving a placenta with umbilical cord, the receptacle comprising a
   compartment arranged to receive the placenta; and a tube extending from the
   compartment for receiving the umbilical cord; wherein the receptacle is selectively
25 removable from the device for receiving the placenta.
   This allows a user to enclose the placenta in a disposable receptacle so as to allow the
   extraction of cord blood while avoiding direct exposure of biological tissue to the
   pressure applicator. This facilitates the operation of the device because only minimal
30 sterilization procedures, or no sterilization procedures, are required to ready the device
   for the next set of cord blood collection.
   The placental blood extraction device may further include a frame having wheels said
   frame having a bracket for suspending the receptacle.
                                                  2

   The placental blood extraction device may further include a perfusion system mounted
   to said frame, said perfusion system including an perfusate bag and a peristaltic pump
   for pumping perfusate into the placenta. The perfusion system may include a warming
   device for warming the perfusate bag. The perfusion system may include a warming
 5 device for warming blood in the conduit for transferring the perfusant.
   The placental blood extraction device may further include a bracket for supporting a
   blood bag for receiving extracted blood. The blood bag bracket may include a rocking
   mechanism for rocking the bracket. The blood bag may include sensors for detecting
10 the volume of blood in said bag. The sensor may be a load cell for measuring the
   weight of the bag.
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a placental blood extraction device
   comprising a pressure application device for applying pressure to a placenta, the
15 pressure application device comprising a plurality of pressing members for applying
   pressure on a plurality of regions of the placenta.
   The device allows application of spatially differential pressure on the placenta to
   achieve a high efficacy. A uniform or centrically high pressure would hamper the
20 drainage of blood from the placenta to the umbilical cord. This can be averted by a
   gradual build up of pressure from the periphery of the placenta to the centre where the
   umbilical cord is attached.
   An advantage that may become available as a result of the invention is the ability to
25 drive blood from the periphery of the placenta to the "centre" so as to be extracted from
   the cord. Whilst centrally located blood is easily extractable, in order to maximize yield,
   it is necessary to be able to extract blood from the peripheral edge of the placenta. This
   is then driven towards the cord. A linear analogy is extracting toothpaste from a
   toothpaste tube. Being a thixotropic material, the lack of flow is not dissimilar to
30 extracting placental blood from the blood vessels in the placenta. As with the
   toothpaste analogy, to maximize yield, it is necessary to apply pressure at a distal
   region from the extraction point, and be able to progressively apply pressure towards
   the extraction to drive the blood to the cord.
                                                 3

   It will be appreciated that as placentas are almost never uniform, and will have the cord
   placed at different locations within the placenta, the term "central" refers to the
   extraction point of the blood within the compartment. That is, the "central" location is
   the position of the cord, with the intent being to drive blood towards the cord for
 5 extraction.
   Having pressing members that are capable of applying peripheral pressure, and may
   also progressively apply pressure, so as to direct the blood may be an important aspect
   of at least one embodiment of the present invention.
10
   It will be appreciated that, in some circumstances, maximum yield may not necessarily
   be the best strategy. With a possible window of opportunity of 15 minutes from delivery
   of the placenta to clotting or contamination of the blood, being able to extract as much
   blood as possible within the available time is important. Accordingly, if there is a delay
15 in being able to process the placenta, this window may be dramatically reduced,
   possibly to the extent that insufficient time is available to maximize yield, but only time
   to extract whatever is available within the reduced time frame. To this end, in a further
   embodiment, the pressing members may also be switchable from a rhythmic, variable
   pressure condition, to aggressively apply pressure to the placenta.
20 In a further embodiment, the invention may accommodate asymmetric placentas. It will
   be appreciated that placentas will almost certainly never be uniform in shape. Not only
   will the placenta be non-uniform, but the position of the cord will vary also.
   To this end, in a further embodiment, the pressing members may be subjected to
25 control of a range of parameters, including, but not limited to:
   i)      Rate, applied pressure and displacement of the pressing members;
   ii)     Selective operation of individual or groups of pressing members;
   iii)    Said selective operation providing the peripheral to central driving of blood in the
30         veins of the placenta;
   iv)     Said selective operation providing different rhythmic cycles for the movement and
           pressure application by the pressing members;
   v)      Selective operation to identify and accommodate asymmetry of the placenta
           and/or position of the cord.
                                                  4

   To this end, and in particular for the initialization procedure, the device may include a
   control system, which may further incorporate adaptive control to adapt operation to
   varying shapes, size and other parameters of said placentas.
 5 In a third aspect, the invention provides a receptacle for use with a placental blood
   extraction device, the receptacle comprising a compartment arranged to receive the
   placenta; and a tube extending from the compartment for receiving the umbilical cord;
   wherein the receptacle is selectively removable from the device for receiving the
   placenta.
10
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a method of extracting blood from a placenta,
   comprising the steps of: encapsulating the placenta with umbilical cord using a
   receptacle; inserting a cannula into the umbilical cord; actuating a placenta blood
   extracting apparatus with the receptacle loaded therein to apply a pressure to the
15 placenta; and collecting blood flowing from the placenta into the cannula.
   The method may further comprise loading the empty receptacle into a placental blood
   extracting device prior to encapsulation.
20 The receptacle may comprise a tube extending from a compartment for receiving the
   umbilical cord, the encapsulation step including the step of clipping an end of the
   umbilical cord using a weight and allowing the end to fall into the tube.
   The method may further comprise perfusing a medium into the cord and placenta.
25
   The medium may include aqueous solutions, anti-coagulant and/or chemicals which aid
   content retrieval from the placenta and cord.
   The actuating step may include the step of applying vibration to the placenta.
30
   The method may further comprise applying a negative pressure to the cannula to
   facilitate the collection of blood.
   In a fifth aspect, the invention provides an umbilical cord cutting device comprising: a
                                                  5

   first and second portion, coupled at respective ends, in relative rotational engagement
   about a common axis, each portion having a slot parallel to the common axis; a first
   rotational position aligning the slots of said portions; a second rotational position
   misaligning said slots cutting edges on said respective ends; wherein the device is
 5 arranged to receive an umbilical cord whilst in the first position and on rotation to the
   second position the device is arranged to cut the umbilical cord placed therein.
   The cutting device may further include a pair of clamps each respectively positioned
   adjacent to said respective ends, such that the device is arranged to relatively rotate
10 the first and second portions from the first position to a third position whereby said
   clamps forced into engagement with the cord.
   In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a cannula assembly comprising: a catheter; a
   housing mounted to a portion of said catheter such that a length of catheter projects
15 from said housing; an introducer in sliding engagement with said housing and arranged
   coaxially with said catheter wherein the introducer is movable from an extended
   position having a penetration end contiguous with an end of said catheter and a
   retracted position such that said catheter end projects from said penetration end.
20 The cannula assembly may further include a selectively releasable lock arranged to
   lock the introducer in the retracted position. The introducer may be a concentric sleeve
   positioned externally to the catheter. The retracted position may place the introducer
   fully retractable within the housing.
25 The cannula assembly may be arranged for penetrating a vein of an umbilical cord,
   said catheter having a diameter equal to a diameter of the cord vein.
   In a seventh aspect, the invention provides a blood bag assembly comprising: a blood
   transfer conduit; a blood bag coupled at a first end of said conduit; a cannula coupled
30 at an opposed end of said conduit; a blood sampling site for obtaining a blood sample
   coupled at a position intermediate said ends; a tapping for an perfusion system coupled
   at a position intermediate said ends.
   The blood bag assembly may further include a perfusion system coupled to the
                                                6

   perfusate tapping. The perfusion system may include a perfusate bag. The perfusion
   system may include a tapping for a peristaltic pump. The perfusion system may include
   a peristaltic pump coupled to the tapping. The perfusion system may include a warming
   device for warming the perfusate bag.
 5
   Brief Description of Drawings
   It will be convenient to further describe the present invention with respect to the
   accompanying drawings that illustrate possible arrangements of the invention. Other
   arrangements of the invention are possible, and consequently the particularity of the
10 accompanying drawings is not to be understood as superseding the generality of the
   preceding description of the invention.
   Figure 1 is a perspective view of a placental blood extracting device, a receptacle and
   a blood bag, according to a first embodiment of the invention.
15
   Figure 2 is an exploded view of the receptacle of Figure 1.
   Figure 3A is a perspective view of a receptacle according to a second embodiment of
   the invention and a cannula.
20
   Figure 3B is a perspective view of the receptacle of Figure 3A loaded with a placenta
   with the cannula inserted into the umbilical cord.
   Figures 4A and 4B illustrate a process of loading a placenta into a receptacle.
25
   Figure 5A shows a sectional view of a pressure application device according to a third
   embodiment of the invention.
   Figures 5B and 5C are perspective view and part cutaway view of an arrangement of
30 the pressing members of the pressure application device.
   Figures 6A and 6B illustrate two further exemplary constructions of a pressure
   application device.
                                                7

   Figure 7 is a schematic diagram of a placental blood extracting device.
   Figure 8 is a flow diagram of a placental blood extracting process.
 5 Figures 9A and 9B are elevation views of a placenta transfer system according one
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 9C is an elevation view of a perfusion device for the placenta transfer system of
   Figure 9A.
10
   Figures 10A to 10C are sequential views of the in utero extraction of cord blood
   according to one embodiment of the present invention.
   Figures 11 A and 11 B are various views of an umbilical cord cutter according to one
15 embodiment of the present invention.
   Figures 12A to 12D are sequential views of the cutting of an umbilical cord using
   device according to the present invention.
20 Figures 13A to 13C are elevation views of a cannula according to one embodiment of
   the present invention.
   Figures 14A and 14B are comparison schematic views of blood extraction using a
   cannula assembly according to one embodiment of the present invention compared to
25 a cannula of the prior art.
   Figure 15 is a schematic view of a blood bag assembly according to one embodiment
   of the present invention.
30 Figures 16A and 16B are schematic views of the blood bag assembly of Figure 15.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments
   Figure 1 shows a placental blood extraction device 1, together with a receptacle 2
   having a delivered placenta 4 loaded therein and a blood bag 3 for using in the
                                                8

   placental blood extracting device 1.
   The placental blood extraction device 1 may further comprise a placenta receiving bay
   for receiving a receptacle having a placenta loaded therein. The placenta 4 may be
 5 prepared off-site with the receptacle 2. The blood extracting process can start once the
   placental blood extracting device 1 is loaded with a receptacle 2, which has been
   prepared with a placenta 4 preloaded. The placental blood is collected in a blood bag 3.
   An exemplary construction of the receptacle 2 is shown in Figure 2. A delivered
10 placenta 4 normally includes a placenta 40 with an umbilical cord 42 connected. The
   receptacle 2 may comprise a compartment 20 into which the placenta 40 is placed, and
   a tube 22 extending from the compartment for receiving the umbilical cord 42. The
   receptacle 2 is selectively removable from the device 1 for receiving a placenta.
15 The receptacle may further include a base, having an absorbent material therein for
   collecting excess blood, and so preventing spillage to maintain a clean and
   encapsulated collection process. The base may also be conveniently used to allow the
   receptacle to stand alone, aiding the insertion and removal of the placenta. It will be
   appreciated that the placenta may remain within the receptacle for disposal of the
20 entire unit, and so also aid in maintain a clean and efficient collection and disposal
   process. Alternatively, the placenta may be removed for separate disposal, with the
   receptacle either cleaned and re-used or disposed of separately.
   The receptacle 2 may be made of a plurality of components such as two mating parts
25 as shown in Figure 2, or a single piece as shown in Figure 3A and 3B. The
   compartment 20 according to one embodiment may define a conical or funnel-shaped
   space of appropriate size suitable for receiving a placenta 40. The apex of the
   compartment 20 is connected to a tube 22 having a length and cross-sectional area
   suitable to contain the umbilical cord 42. The other side of the compartment 20 may be
30 an opening allowing pressure to be applied onto the placenta 40.
   Optionally, the receptacle 2 may further comprise a cover 24 as shown in Figures 3A
   and 3B. Figures 3A shows a further embodiment of the receptacle 2 and a cannula 28
   for insertion into the umbilical cord through the tube 22. The cover 24 allows for the full
                                                9

   encapsulation of the placenta, not merely for the application of pressure, but also to
   seal the placenta from sources of contamination that may affect the extracted blood.
   Having the receptacle as a single disposable unit with the placenta sealed therein,
   ensures the collection process is clean, efficient and avoids direct contact with either
 5 the extraction device or the operator.
   The receptacle 2 may be made of disposable material, such that after each process a
   user may simply take out the receptacle 2 and replace it with another one, as if
   replacing a cartridge.
10
   The compartment 20 may have a circular rim. The compartment 20 and tube 22 may
   be made of plasticised PVC, so as to be flexible and relatively soft to avoid damage to
   the placenta, while the circular rim may be made of hard PVC to provide rigidity. It will
   be appreciated that materials providing similar benefits may be used without departing
15 from the invention.
   The tube 22 may be lined with one or more rectangular windows, or recesses 26 to
   provide users an easy access to the umbilical cord within it. These windows 26 may be
   covered by flaps to prevent unnecessary exposure of the umbilical cord 42 to the
20 surroundings. Given that umbilical cords vary substantially in length, and that the cord
   may also be trimmed prior to the extraction process, it is important for the receptacle to
   allow for this variation by providing multiple cannulation sites. It will be appreciated that,
   to avoid contamination by maternal blood, a region immediately adjacent to the end of
   the cord is not available for extracting blood. Nevertheless, by providing multiple
25 cannulation sites, an optimum placement of the cannula is possible after the placenta is
   placed in the receptacle, providing a convenient and clean setup for the extraction
   process.
   The tube 22 may be formed of suitable material, shape and/or dimension to facilitate
30 the gripping of the umbilical cord 42. Further, the tube 22 may be made of stiff material
   to prevent it from being penetrated by a needle or cannula to be inserted into the
   umbilical cord 42 so as to prevent a possible "needle stick" injury to the user by the
   needle.
                                                 10

   Once a placenta is loaded into the receptacle 2, a cannula 28 may be inserted into the
   umbilical cord 42 through the windows 26 as shown in Figure 3B. The cover 24 can be
   closed. The receptacle 2 is now ready to be loaded into the placental blood extraction
   device 1.
 5
   At least a part of the inner surfaces of the receptacle 2 may be lined with absorbent
   material and this serves to absorb maternal blood from the placenta 40 and umbilical
   cord 42.
10 The cover 24 may comprise a hard plastic rim and a flexible membrane which can be
   made of silicone or other forms of plastic. After the placenta 4 is inserted into the
   receptacle 2, the cover 24 can be closed to seal the placenta within the receptacle. The
   flexible membrane serves to allow easy transfer of pressure from a pressure
   application device 5 to the placenta.
15
   The receptacle 2 effectively separates the placenta 4 from the placental blood
   extraction device 1, and thereby preventing the placental blood extraction device 1
   being contaminated by the maternal blood or any other fluid on the placenta.
20 A process of loading a placenta 40 with umbilical cord 42 into a receptacle 2 is shown
   in Figures 4A and 4B. It may include clipping an end of the umbilical cord 42 using a
   weight 44 and allowing the end to fall into the tube 22.
   After the extraction of the placenta and cord from the womb, a weighted clamp 44 will
25 replace the hemostat/clamp that is originally used to clamp the cord during the harvest.
   It is first clamped at a position on the cord near the hemostat/clamp but on the side
   nearer to the placenta. Subsequently, the placenta and umbilical cord are inserted into
   the receptacle, with the cord 42 sliding down the tube 22 and the placenta 40 resting
   compartment 20. Lastly, the cover 24 is placed onto the compartment 20 to ensure a
30 complete encapsulation of the placenta and cord. The weighted umbilical cord clamp
   44 may be specially made heavy in order to allow the umbilical cord 42 to slide easily
   into the tube 22.
   In a further embodiment, the placental blood collection device 1 may comprise a
                                                11

   pressure application device 5 for applying pressure to a placenta. Figures 5A to 5C are
   embodiments of a pressure application device 5.
   As shown in Figure 5A, the pressure application device 5 comprises a plurality of
 5 pressing members 50, 52 for applying pressure on a plurality of regions of the placenta,
   wherein the plurality of pressing members 50, 52 are independently controllable so as
   to allow different levels of pressure to be applied onto different regions of the placenta.
   Optionally, at least one of the pressing members 50, 52 may be arranged to apply
10 pressure from the bottom side of the placenta, namely the side of the placenta having
   umbilical cord extending there from. Accordingly, in this alternative arrangement, it may
   be possible to apply pressure to the placenta as well as the umbilical as well,
   optimizing the extraction of blood. The pressure application device 5 allows the timing
   of activation of the pressure members to be controlled so as to apply a desired rhythm
15 of compression on the placenta.
   In one embodiment, the device may further comprise at least one pressure sensor for
   indicating pressure applied on a region of the placenta. The at least one pressure
   sensor is attached to at least one of the pressing members. The device may further
20 comprise a control system for controlling the pressing members so as to apply a
   differential pressure profile on the placenta.
   The control system may include a preset algorithm for a differential pressure profile,
   such as in the form of the rhythmic application of pressure to the placenta. Such
   algorithm may include a varying operation of the pressing members such that early in
25 the collection process, pressure is applied primarily at the peripheral edges of the
   placenta, with a central pressure application being of a lesser degree. As the process
   continues, the pressure may increase to increase the blood yield. The control system
   may be capable of using a variety of operator selected algorithms.
30 The control system may further include a pressure sensor for providing feedback signal
   to the control system. The pressure sensor may be provided on the pressing members.
   Alternatively, or in addition to, the system may include displacement sensors.
   Further, the control system, and/or pressure application device may include a vibratory
                                                12

   device to apply vibration to the placenta to further aid the collection process. Such a
   vibration may or may not be part of the applied algorithm. The control system may be
   selectively interrupted and/or by-passed by the operator to allow the operator to directly
   control the rate, magnitude and location of the application of pressure.
 5
   The control system may further include an adaptive system. That is, by analyzing
   signal input from sensors in communication with the control system, the control system
   may adapt control to meet specific conditions.
10 For instance, placentas are generally asymmetric, rather than a regular elliptical or
   circular shape. The control system may include an initialization sequence whereby the
   shape of the placenta, and position of the umbilical within the placenta may be
   determined.     Such an    adaptive system     may then adjust the pre-determined
   arrangement of pressing members to apply pressure according to the determined
15 periphery and cord location. Such an adaptation may include activating certain
   pressing members that are positioned to contact the placenta, and deactivate other
   pressing members that do not. Such an arrangement may further redefine pressing
   members as outer, inner and intermediate pressing members based on the determined
   shape of the placenta and position of the cord.
20
   The control system may be an open loop system, in which output from sensors are
   displayed to an operator for their action. Alternatively, the control system may be
   closed loop, with the control system reacting to sensor input. One such example of a
   closed loop may include the adaptive system previously described.
25
   At least one of the pressing members, or all pressing members 50, 52, may comprise a
   resilient portion. Optionally, at least one of the pressing members, or all pressing
   members 50, 52, may be made wholly of resilient material. The resilient portion or
   material may prevent potential damage to the placenta during the blood extraction
30 process. The resilient portion or material may include any one of a gel pad, air bag,
   sponge, or any other suitable material.
   In a further embodiment, the plurality of pressing members may comprise at least one
   outer pressing member 52 for applying pressure onto a peripheral region of the
                                               13

   placenta surface. The device may further comprise an inner pressing member 50 for
   applying pressure onto a central region of the placenta surface.
   While loaded in the receptacle or placental blood extraction device, the placenta may
 5 resemble roughly an ellipsoid or oblate (flattened) spheroid with a cross-section as
   shown in Figures 6A and 6B. The central region of the placenta surface refers to a
   region of the surface opposing and/or adjacent to the point from which the umbilical
   cord extends. This corresponds to the top or bottom surface adjacent to the minor axis.
   The peripheral region of the placenta surface is the region further away from the minor
10 axis.
   The second outer pressing member 52 may be annular, and comprising a pressure
   application surface for applying pressure on the peripheral region the placenta. It may
   further comprise one or more intermediate pressing members 54 for applying pressure
15 onto a region between the central and peripheral regions of the placenta surface.
   Each of the pressing members 50 and 52 of the pressure application device 5 may be
   independently controllable to allow different levels of pressure to be applied onto
   different regions of the placenta. For example, by activating the outer pressing member
20 52 for a first period, and subsequently activating the inner pressing member 50 for a
   second period, a differential pressure profile can be applied to the placenta. During the
   first period, higher pressure is applied on the peripheral region than the central region.
   During the second period, the pressure applied on the central region increases to expel
   the blood out of the placenta through the umbilical cord.
25
   In one embodiment, there may be a plurality of outer pressing members 52.            Each
   outer pressing member may have a pressing surface collectively forming an annular
   shape. The control system may be configured to activate the outer pressing member
   before activating the mid and/or inner pressing members. The pressing members may
30 be driven by hydraulic means, gearing systems or magnetic force.
   Three exemplary types of pressure application device are to be described detail: full air
   bag compression system, motorized compression system and hybrid compression
   system.
                                                14

   A full air bag compression system is shown in Figure 5A to 5C. It may include a
   plurality of annular inflatable airbags 50, 52 and 54 of various diameters are fitted into a
   rigid cylindrical structure. These airbags are separated from one another by cylindrical
   walls 51. During operation, when these air bags are expanded sequentially from the
 5 ones on the outer perimeter to the inner ones, the placenta is compressed from the
   edges towards its centre.
   One of the advantages associated with using a full air bag system is that the placenta
   experiences a gentler compression force as compared to a motorized system involving
10 cams. In addition, it would be more precise in terms of control of the differential
   pressure across the placenta compared to a single silicone membrane with the dome
   shaped cross section.
   In a motorized compression system of Figure 6A, the pressing members are in the form
15 of pads 50, 52 connected to cams 56, or driving members. The cams 56 are capable of
   reciprocal actuation. These cams 56 will press the pads 50, 52 against the placenta. In
   order to create a differential pressure across the placenta, the cams 56 can be
   adjusted to move at different times. For example, if the outer rings of pads 52 may be
   lowered before the inner rings, such that a differential pressure would be created
20 across the placenta from its perimeter to its center. It will be appreciated that a control
   system capable of controlling the motorized compression system using preset
   algorithms as previously described in relation to the air pressure system is also
   possible. It will be appreciated that a similar system may be used for applying pressure
   to the umbilical cord, either in combination or as an alternative, so as to extract residual
25 blood. The pressure may be applied to the cord in a systematic manner from the
   placenta end of the cord to the distal end such that the blood is pushed down the cord
   to the cannulation site.
   A hybrid compression system of Figure 6B is structurally similar to the motorized
30 compression system except that the pre-inflated airbags 50a and 52a are attached to
   the pads 50b and 52b, which are in turn connected to the cams 56. This system also
   has the advantage of a gentler compressive force of the airbags on the placenta. In
   operation, the cams 56 force the pads 50b and 52b, and the airbags 50a and 52a,
   downwards onto the placenta and thus compresses the placenta. The outermost ring of
                                                 15

   the airbag may be compressed first, followed by the inner ones so as to create a
   differential pressure from its perimeter to its center of the placenta.
   A schematic diagram of a placental blood extracting device 1 is shown in Figure 7. The
 5 placental blood extraction device may comprise a main frame 72, a pressure
   application device 5, perfusion and collection module 74, and control user interface.
   The frame may include a placenta receiving bay for receiving a receptacle 2 having a
   placenta therein. The perfusion and collection module 74 may comprise one or more
   mechanical pumps 74a, perfusion means 74b, perfusant solution application means
10 74c, so as to apply the perfusion during blood extraction, with the perfusant solution to
   disassociate the hematopoietic progenitor cells in the placenta and thereby assisting
   the blood extraction. For example, the perfusant may be an anti-coagulant
   The main frame 72 may include a housing with a side opening, through with the
15 receptacle 2 may be inserted into the placenta receiving bay. The top of the frame
   houses the pressure application device. The pressure application device 5 applies
   pressure onto the placenta inside the receptacle 2 through the cover 24.
   A flow diagram of the placental blood extracting process is shown in Figure 8. The
20 process includes: encapsulating 80 the placenta with umbilical cord using a receptacle,
   inserting 82 a cannula into the umbilical cord, loading 84 the receptacle into a placental
   blood extracting device, actuating 86 the placenta blood extracting apparatus to apply a
   pressure to the placenta, and collecting blood flowing from the placenta into the
   cannula.
25
   The placenta is first prepared by encapsulating the placenta using a receptacle 2. The
   process may further include a step of loading the empty receptacle into a placental
   blood extracting device prior to encapsulation. The encapsulation may include clipping
   an end of the umbilical cord using a weight and allowing the end to fall into the tube 22.
30 The placenta enclosed in the compartment 20 and the umbilical cord enclosed in the
   tube are exposed and disinfected.
   Subsequently, the umbilical cord is cannulated 84 with the catheter needle. The
   process may further include a step of perfusing a medium into the cord and placenta.
                                                 16

   The medium could include aqueous solutions, anti-coagulant and/or chemicals which
   aid content retrieval from the placenta and cord. In one embodiment, the placenta is
   perfused with a flushing solution containing anti-coagulant. Perfusion is aided by a
   mechanical pump. Upon perfusion, the hematopoietic progenitors present in the
 5 placenta and the cord are dissociated from the surrounding tissue.
   The receptacle 2 with a placenta therein may then be loaded into the placenta
   receiving bay of the placental blood extracting device 1. In one embodiment, the
   receptacle may be in sliding engagement with the device, such that it slides on a rail to
10 receive the placenta. Further, the receptacle may also be in rotational engagement,
   such that the receptacle is inverted to allow placement of the placenta maternal side
   first, then reverted back to the normal position. The receptacle can then be slid back
   into the device, following cannulation.
15 Lastly, the placenta blood extracting apparatus is actuated to apply a pressure to the
   placenta. The cellular extraction is aided by the application of pressure on the maternal
   surface of the placenta via an air bag system. Applied pressure is monitored through
   the control user interface 76 so as to prevent the excessive pressurization.
   Subsequently, cord blood is drained via the tubes into sterile blood bags. This actuating
20 step may include applying vibration to the placenta. The process may further comprise
   a step of applying a negative pressure to the cannula to facilitate the collection of blood.
   In a further embodiment, in order to improve yield, the device may include an
   arrangement whereby fluid is injected into the placenta in order to apply additional
25 pressure for the extraction of blood. To this end, the fluid path created by such an
   arrangement of the device may include:
   i)       An injection of fluid through a cannula placed in an umbilical vein, so as to
            perfuse fluid through the veins of the placenta;
30 ii)      The injection of fluid builds pressure in the placenta, which tends the evacuate
            blood from the placenta into the cord;
   iii)     The evacuated blood is then extracted through a second cannula in the cord.
   Alternatives to this fluid path include having the injection cannula and extraction
                                                 17

   cannula being the same, with a 3 way valve to accommodate the injection and
   extraction functions.
   The perfused fluid may include anti-coagulant, saline solution or other flushing agent.
 5
   Figures 9A and 9B shows the placental blood extraction device according to one
   embodiment of the present invention, in this case a placenta transfer system 90. The
   system 90 includes a receptacle 95, 100 for receiving the placenta 95 and umbilical
   cord 100 so as to allow a catheter and conduit, or tube, 105 to extract the cord blood
10 and deliver to a blood bag located on a blood bag rocker 115. The system further
   includes a perfusion system 110 shown in more detail in Figure 9C. The system, in this
   case a perfusion device 110 includes a perfusate bag 125 which fits within the casing
   of the device 110. The device 110 further includes a warming device 130 for
   maintaining the perfusate at a predetermined temperature so as to ease blood flow. By
15 way of example, the warmer 130 could maintain the perfusate in a range 350C to 400C
   or more specifically it may warm the perfusate to 370C. The warming device may be
   applied to the bag of perfusant, such as a bag of anti-coagulant, or may be applied to
   the conduit, or tubing, used to transfer the perfusant.
20 The device 110 further includes a peristaltic pump 135 so as to pump the perfusate into
   the placenta for maintaining a back pressure as well adding perfusate to the cord blood
   for ease of collection. Whilst a peristaltic pump is identified, the skilled person will
   appreciate other forms of pressure actuation may be used, including a syringe pump.
   To this end, the perfusion may be stored in said syringe pump replacing the need for a
25 bag.
   During in utero collection, once the baby is delivered, the umbilical cord is severed and
   cannulated so as to attach the collection conduit/tube 105 to the umbilical cord. When
   the placenta is delivered it is encapsulated within the receptacle 95, 100 which may be
30 secured to a platform for ex utero extraction. Pre-warmed perfusate will be perfused
   into the placenta using the peristaltic pump 135 and drained out of the placenta through
   gravity. From the system 90 the receptacle 95, 100 containing the placenta may be
   transferred to a separate machine so as to allow pressure to be applied to the placenta
   for further cord blood extraction. Alternatively, the pressure applicator may be mounted
                                                  18

   to the system 90 to apply pressure to the placenta whilst mounted to the system 90.
   Once the cord blood collection is complete, the system 90 can be folded (Figure 9B)
   and placed in a more convenient location having a smaller footprint consistent with the
   crowded delivery suite.
 5
   The system is arranged to reduce the turnaround time between the in utero and ex
   utero cord blood collection by having the necessary components integrated into a
   single system 90.
10 Figure 10A to 10C show a sequential view of the transition from in utero to ex utero
   cord blood collection. While the placenta 155 is in the uterus the umbilical cord is
   placed on an absorbent receptacle 140. The cord is wiped dry and then cannulated so
   as to connect the cord to a blood bag located on a blood bag rocker 150 through a tube
   145. After the placenta 155 is delivered it is placed on the receptacle 140 which then
15 wraps 160 around the placenta and secured using Velcro. As an alternative to Velcro,
   buttons, zips or other forms of binding the receptacle about the placenta. The placenta
   and umbilical cord are then placed into the system as shown in Figure 9A. In one
   embodiment, the blood bag rocker may include sensors for determining the volume of
   blood collected in said bag. For instance, a load cell may measure the weight of the
20 bag, and connected to a display for communicating the weight, blood volume or % of
   bag volume to highlight to the healthcare worker the collected volume, such as to
   replace the bag or merely to provide information.
   The system of 9A may be battery powered so as to facilitate portability. Further the
25 system may be mounted on wheels so as to further assist in the easy introduction and
   removal of the system as required. To achieve the battery powered aspect of the
   system the batteries may be rechargeable and so connectable to an electrical socket or
   possibly through induction charging.
30 The placenta transfer system reduces the critical loss of time during the transition from
   in utero to ex utero cord blood collection and so minimizing the risk of blood clots and
   overall improvement of cellular yield. In the embodiment of Figure 9A the placenta
   transfer system may be a compact design to allow the process to be conducted within
   the delivery room without the need of additional manpower transportation or space.
                                                19

   Figures 11 A and 11 B show a cord cutting device 165 arranged to receive and cut an
   umbilical cord 172. The cord cutting device engages the cord 172 in a manner so that
   at the time of cutting the open ends of the cord 172 are enclosed within the device and
   so preventing blood splatter. A further consequence of the enclosure during cutting
 5 reduces the risk of injury to healthcare workers by both cutting the cord within the
   device and also providing a secured grip of the cord during the procedure.
   The cord cutting device 165 comprises a first and second portion 185, 190 which are in
   relative rotational engagement about a common axis. The portions 185, 190 are
10 coupled at respective ends of the portions and have complimentary slots. In the initial
   position the slots align and so allow the placement of the cord. Mounted to the
   respective portions include cutting edges 175 at the respective ends. Those areas of
   the two portions 185, 190 in proximity to the cord 172 act as a barrier to enclose the
   cord with the cutting edges arranged to then cut the cord on a secondary rotation from
15 the first, initial, position to a second cutting position.
   Positioned at the respective ends are clamps, initially placed in an open position. As
   the cord is placed within the device, it is consequently placed into the open clamps. On
   first rotating the portions 185, 190 to a third position the clamps close around the cord
20 and lock with sufficient pressure to block blood flow.
   The placement of the clamps is such that they block blood loss at the severed ends of
   the cord following the cord cutting rotation.
25 Figures 12A to 12D show a sequential view of the cord cutting device 165 whereby the
   umbilical cord 180 is placed within the aligned slots of the portions of the device 165 in
   the first position. The two portions 185, 190 are rotated 195, 191 relative to each other
   to a third position so as to close the device around the cord 180. The two portions 185,
   190 are then rotated in an opposed direction 200, 205 which brings the cutting edges
30 into contact with the cord and consequently shearing through. In a further embodiment,
   the device 165 may include a pair of clamps 187, 192 which as a consequence of the
   reverse rotation 200, 205 are arranged to clamp the severed ends of the cord 180 so
   as to close off the cord preventing further loss of cord blood.
                                                   20

   Figures 13A to 13C show a cannula assembly 210 according to one embodiment of the
   present invention. The cannula assembly is applicable in use for most if not all
   applications of cannula applications. Certain embodiments of the broad invention, such
   as catheter diameter and the singe handed operation also make the assembly
 5 applicable for the extraction of cord blood.
   The assembly 210 comprises a pair of concentric sleeves 225, 230 whereby the outer
   sleeve, being an introducer 230, is arranged for penetrating the umbilical cord so as to
   place the flexible catheter 225 within the cord vein. The cannula assembly 210 further
10 includes a slide 220 mounted to the outer penetrative sleeve (introducer) 230 and is
   arranged to retract the penetrative sleeve 230 on insertion into the cord vein leaving
   the flexible catheter 225 in place. The flexible catheter 225 as shown in Figure 14A is
   sized such that the catheter diameter is equal to the diameter of the cord vein 240 so
   as to more efficiently extract blood 235 from the cord vein 240. Figure 14B shows a
15 prior art catheter 245 which is typically much smaller than the cord vein 240 and so is
   not able to efficiently extract cord blood following insertion.
   The penetrative sleeve 230 or introducer needle being retractable and lockable in place
   through use of the slide 220 avoids the disposal of a sharp needle as is the case of
20 prior art cannulae and so prevent stick injuries to healthcare workers. The assembly
   allows the user to cannulate the cord with one hand and manipulate the cord with the
   other simultaneously, again unlike the two handed operation of conventional cannulae.
   The relative operational ease further reduces the time for cannulation and so further
   prevents the onset of blood clots within the cord as well as more effectively and
25 efficiently extracting blood.
   Once the punch is made into the cord and the introducer needle is retracted, the
   flexible catheter 225 is maneuvered carefully into the cord vein. Unlike prior art
   cannulae which have a stiff catheter the cannula assembly according to this
30 embodiment uses a soft and flexible catheter designed to fit within the cord vein and
   preferably apply pressure to the walls of the vein so as to further expand the vein for
   better cord blood extraction. Ideally, this will capture all the blood flowing through the
   vein directly into the catheter and certainly considerably greater proportion of the blood
   then would be available through a catheter of the prior art. Further, the flexible catheter
                                                  21

   225 according to the present invention is more fully insertable into the vein and so less
   chance of the catheter 225 from slipping from the vein during the collection process.
   Figure 15 shows a blood bag assembly suitable for use with the placenta transfer
   system. The blood bag assembly 250 comprises a blood bag 280 having a cannula
 5 255 at an opposed end of a tube system. The cannula 255 may be a conventional
   cannula or may be a cannula assembly according to one embodiment of the present
   invention. The assembly 250 includes a blood sampling site 260 to facilitate the
   extraction of blood for testing. The blood bag assembly 250 further includes a
   coagulant system comprising an perfusion bag 267 having a spike 265, for selectively
10 mounting the perfusion bag 267, and a peristaltic pump 270.
   The connection to the tube 252 allows for selective use of the perfusion whereby in
   circumstances where perfusion is not desired or not permitted then the perfusate can
   be kept away from the flow of cord blood to the blood bag 280. The peristaltic pump
15 may be selectively controllable so as to control the volume of perfusate that is pumped
   into the cord. A blood sampling site 260 is also included to allow healthcare workers to
   withdraw a blood sample for necessary action without interfering with the cord blood
   collection process. For example, the blood sampling site may be a needleless injection
   site, vacutainer site or other means for gaining access to the flow of cord blood without
20 having to interrupt the procedure or blood flow generally.
   Figure 16A shows the in utero collection process using a cord blood bag assembly 285.
   Here the umbilical cord 290 has a cannula inserted therein during the period prior to
   delivery of the placenta. Cord blood is collected for testing 220 through the blood
25 sampling site295. Cord blood is then collected 320 in the blood bag 315. Once the
   placenta has been delivered the arrangement shown in Figure 16B whereby the
   delivered placenta 317 becomes the source of cord blood collection 325 into the bag
   315. To facilitate the collection process the blood bag assembly 285 may include a
   perfusion bag 300 and peristaltic pump 305 for pumping 330 perfusate into the
30 placenta 317.
                                               22

   Claims
   1.     A placental blood extraction device comprising:
                a receptacle for receiving a placenta with umbilical cord, the receptacle
          comprising
 5              a compartment arranged to receive the placenta; and
                a tube extending from the compartment for receiving the umbilical cord;
                wherein the receptacle is selectively removable from the device for
          receiving the placenta.
10 2.     The placental blood extraction device according to claim 1, wherein the tube
          includes one or more recesses for receiving at least one cannula.
   3.     The placental blood extraction device according to claim 2, wherein the tube is
          adapted to facilitate gripping of the umbilical cord.
15
   4.     The placental blood extraction device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the
          receptacle further includes a base at a conjunction end of said tube.
   5.     The placental blood extraction device according to claim 4, wherein at least a
20        portion of the base includes a layer of absorbent material.
   6.     The placental blood extraction device according to any one of the preceding
          claims, further comprising a pressure application device for applying pressure to
          the placenta, the pressure application device comprising a plurality of pressing
25        members for applying pressure on a plurality of regions of the placenta.
   7.     The placental blood extraction device according to claim 6, wherein the plurality
          of pressing members are independently controllable so as to vary the pressure
          applied to said regions.
30
   8.     A placental blood extraction device comprising:
                    a pressure application device for applying pressure to a placenta, the
          pressure application device comprising a plurality of pressing members for
          applying pressure on a plurality of regions of the placenta.
                                                23

   9.  The placental blood extraction device according to claim 8, wherein the plurality
       of pressing members are independently controllable so as to allow different
       levels of pressure to be applied onto different regions of the placenta.
 5 10.  The placental blood extraction device according to claim 9, wherein at least
       one of the pressing members is arranged to apply pressure from a side of the
       placenta having umbilical cord extending there from.
   11.  The placental blood extraction device according to claim 9, wherein the
10     pressure application device is arranged such that activation of the pressure
       members applies a pre-determined rhythmic application of pressure to the
       placenta, umbilical cord or both.
   12. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 9, further comprising at
15     least one pressure sensor for indicating pressure applied on a region of the
       placenta.
   13.  The placental blood extraction device according to claim 12, wherein the at
       least one pressure sensor is attached to at least one of the pressing members.
20
   14. The placental blood extraction device according to any one of claims 9 to 13,
       further comprising a control system for controlling the pressing members so as
       to apply a differential pressure profile on the placenta.
25 15. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 8, further comprises a
       vibratory device to apply vibration to the placenta.
   16. The placental blood extraction device according to any one of claims 8 to 15,
       wherein the plurality of pressing members comprise at least one outer pressing
30     member for applying pressure onto a peripheral region of the placenta surface.
   17.  The placental blood extraction device according to claim 16, further comprising
       an inner pressing member for applying pressure onto a central region of the
       placenta surface.
                                             24

   18. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 16 or 17, further
       comprising an intermediate pressing member for applying pressure onto a
       region between the central and peripheral regions of the placenta surface.
 5 19. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 18, wherein the control
       system is configured to activate the outer pressing member before activating
       the mid and/or inner pressing members.
   20. The placental blood extraction device according to any one of claims 8 to 19,
10     further comprising a receptacle for receiving a placenta with umbilical cord, the
       receptacle comprising a compartment arranged to receive the placenta; and a
       tube extending from the compartment for receiving the umbilical cord; wherein
       the receptacle is selectively removable from the device for receiving the
       placenta.
15
   21. A receptacle for use with the device of claim 1 or 8, comprising
             a compartment arranged to receive the placenta; and
             a tube extending from the compartment for receiving the umbilical cord;
             wherein the receptacle is selectively removable from the device for
20     receiving the placenta.
   22. A method of extracting blood from a placenta, comprising the steps of:
               encapsulating the placenta with umbilical cord using a receptacle;
               inserting a cannula into the umbilical cord;
25             actuating a placenta blood extracting apparatus with the receptacle
       loaded therein to apply a pressure to the placenta; and
             collecting blood flowing from the placenta into the cannula.
   23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of:
30     loading the empty receptacle into a placental blood extracting device prior to
       encapsulation.
   24. The method of claim 22, wherein the receptacle comprises a tube extending
       from a compartment for receiving the umbilical cord, the encapsulation step
                                            25

       including the step of clipping an end of the umbilical cord using a weight and
       allowing the end to fall into the tube.
   25. The method of claim 22, further comprising perfusing a medium into the cord
 5     and placenta.
   26. The method of claim 25, wherein the medium includes aqueous solutions, anti
       coagulant and/or chemicals which aid content retrieval from the placenta and
       cord.
10
   27. The method of claim 22, wherein the actuating step includes the step of
       applying vibration to the placenta.
   28. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of applying a negative
15     pressure to the cannula to facilitate the collection of blood.
   29. The placental blood extraction device according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
       further including a frame having wheels said frame having a bracket for
       suspending the receptacle.
20
   30. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 29, further including a
       perfusion system mounted to said frame, said perfusion system including an
       perfusate bag and a peristaltic pump for pumping perfusate into the placenta.
25 31. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 29 or 30, further
       including a bracket for supporting a blood bag for receiving extracted blood.
   32. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 31, wherein said blood
       bag bracket includes a rocking mechanism for rocking the bracket.
30
   33. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 32, wherein the blood
       bag includes sensors for detecting the volume of blood in said bag.
                                             26

   34. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 32, wherein said
       sensor may be a load cell for measuring the weight of the bag.
   35. The placental blood extraction device according to any one of claims 30 to 34,
 5     wherein the perfusion system includes a warming device for warming the
       perfusate bag.
   36. The placental blood extraction device according to claim 35, wherein the
       perfusion system includes a warming device for warming blood in the conduit
10     for transferring the perfusant.
   37. An umbilical cord cutting device comprising:
                a first and second portion, coupled at respective ends, in relative
       rotational engagement about a common axis, each portion having a slot parallel
15     to the common axis;
                a first rotational position aligning the slots of said portions;
                a second rotational position misaligning said slots
                cutting edges on said respective ends;
                wherein the device is arranged to receive an umbilical cord whilst in the
20     first position and on rotation to the second position the device is arranged to cut
       the umbilical cord placed therein.
   38. The cutting device according to claim 37, further including a pair of clamps each
       respectively positioned adjacent to said respective ends, such that the device is
25     arranged to relatively rotate the first and second portions from the first position
       to a third position whereby said clamps forced into engagement with the cord.
   39. A cannula assembly comprising:
                  a catheter;
30                a housing mounted to a portion of said catheter such that a length of
       catheter projects from said housing;
                  an introducer in sliding engagement with said housing and arranged
       coaxially with said catheter
                 wherein the introducer is movable from an extended position having a
                                                27

       penetration end contiguous with an end of said catheter and a retracted position
       such that said catheter end projects from said penetration end.
   40. The cannula assembly according to claim 39, further including a selectively
 5     releasable lock arranged to lock the introducer in the retracted position.
   41. The cannula assembly according to claim 39 or 40, wherein the introducer is a
       concentric sleeve positioned externally to the catheter.
10 42. The cannula assembly according to any one of claims 39 to 41, wherein the
       retracted position places the introducer fully retractable within the housing.
   43. The cannula assembly according to any one of claims 39 to 42, wherein the
       assembly is arranged for penetrating a vein of an umbilical cord, said catheter
15     having a diameter equal to a diameter of the cord vein.
   44. A blood bag assembly comprising:
               a blood transfer conduit;
               a blood bag coupled at a first end of said conduit;
20             a cannula coupled at an opposed end of said conduit;
               a blood sampling site for obtaining a blood sample coupled at a position
       intermediate said ends;
               a tapping for an perfusion system coupled at a position intermediate said
       ends.
25
   45. The blood bag assembly according to claim 44, further including a perfusion
       system coupled to the perfusate tapping.
   46. The blood bag assembly according to claim 45, wherein the perfusion system
30     includes a perfusate bag.
   47. The blood bag assembly according to claim 45 or 46, wherein the perfusion
       system includes a tapping for a peristaltic pump.
                                            28

  48. The blood bag assembly according to any one of claims 45 to 47, wherein the
      perfusion system includes a peristaltic pump coupled to the tapping.
  49. The blood bag assembly according to any one of claims 45 to 48, wherein the
5     perfusion system includes a warming device for warming the perfusate bag.
                                         29

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
