Abstract
A computer system 10 for facilitating a plurality of gamers playing a video game and transmission
of the resulting gameplay to an audience. The video game provides gameplay for each of the
gamers based on commands input by the gamers and by video game mechanics. The computer
system 10 includes at least one game console 11 to provide a gamer interface for allowing at least
one of the gamers to input one or more commands that have an effect on the gameplay, a gameplay
modification unit 12 for generating a signal to modify the gameplay for at least one of the gamers in
real-time and which is arranged remotely from the at least one game console, a processor 13 to
generate the gameplay for each of the gamers responsive to the commands input by the gamers and
the video game mechanics, and to modify the gameplay for at least one of the gamers responsive to
the signal generated by the gameplay modification unit 12, and a transmission unit 14 to transmit
the gameplay for each of the gamers to an audience.

                             1/3
      10  ~1/eA4
                          Poetor Screh            In
                                                             Audio Mixer
 Tablet         TabletProjector
                                                   ........Video swilher
               awith PC 2           with PC 3
and GoPro     and Go Pro2          andGoPro3                and G        o4
                AoFeFigudiou         AudireF..d -             Audio F* 4
                            Figure 1

                                              1
   "Computer system for multiplayer gaming and transmission of gameplay to an
                                         audience"
Technical Field
 [0001]   The present disclosure relates to systems for facilitating a plurality of gamers
playing a video game together, commonly referred to as 'multi-player gaming', and
transmission of the resulting gameplay to an audience.
Background
 [0002]  A video game is a computer application typically executed by a video game
console to provide a gaming experience for one or more gamers. The experience is
commonly referred to as 'gameplay' and is based on commands input by the one or
more gamers and video game mechanics, typically defined as code within the
application. For example, a popular video game is known as "Pac-Man" and involves a
single gamer (also known as a 'player') inputting directional commands using a
joystick to control an avatar moving through a maze and eating biscuits. When all the
biscuits have been eaten, the gamer progresses to a new, different maze. The geometry
of the maze, location of the biscuits in the maze and interaction of the avatar with the
maze, such as being prevented from walking through walls, are defined by the video
game mechanics. The movement of the avatar through the maze is controlled by the
commands input by the gamer.
 [0003]  Video gaming has become increasingly popular over recent years. The
gameplay provided by a video game is generally accepted as being enjoyable not only
for gamers controlling the gameplay but also for an audience viewing the gameplay.
For example, some video games have become so popular that 'World Championship'
tournament events are held in stadiums and watched by live audiences exceeding
40,000 attendees. These events typically involve multiple professional gamers playing
the same video game against each other, and the generated gameplay being broadcast
on large-scale monitors in the stadium to allow the audience to watch the gameplay.

                                              2
[0004]    Whilst such large-scale video game tournament events provide an acceptable
viewing experience for the attending audience, these events require expensive and
complex infrastructure which typically requires skilled engineers to install and
maintain. This can prove problematic for a small-scale event, such as an event held in a
local community centre or a gamer's home, and therefore prohibitive to events for
amateur or casual video gamers. Accordingly, it would be useful to provide a less
complex system for broadcasting a plurality of gamers playing a video game to an
audience. Furthermore, it would be advantageous for such a system to provide an
improved and/or alternative viewing experience for the audience.
[0005]    Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any of these
matters form part of the common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
Summary
[0006]    According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a computer
system for facilitating a plurality of gamers playing a video game together and
transmission of the resulting gameplay to an audience. The video game provides
gameplay for each of the gamers based on commands input by the gamers and by video
game mechanics. The computer system comprises:
          at least one game console to provide a gamer interface for allowing at least one
of the gamers to input one or more commands that have an effect on the gameplay,
          a gameplay modification unit for generating a signal to modify the gameplay
for at least one of the gamers in real-time, the gameplay modification unit being remote
from the at least one game console,
          a processor to generate the gameplay for each of the gamers responsive to the
commands input by the gamers and by the video game mechanics, and to modify the
gameplay for at least one of the gamers responsive to the signal, and
          a transmission unit to transmit the gameplay for each of the gamers to an
audience.

                                              3
[0007]     The computer system may be configured such that responsive to the signal, the
processor modifies at least one of the video game mechanics thereby modifying the
gameplay for at least one of the gainers.
[0008]     The computer system may be configured such that responsive to the signal, the
processor modifies one or more aspects of the gameplay affected by the one or more
commands input by at least one of the gainers, thereby modifying the gameplay for the
respective gainers.
[0009] Alternatively or additionally, responsive to the signal, the processor may cause
one or more of: restrict the commands able to be input by at least one of the gainers;
prevent the effect of at least one of the one or more commands input by at least one of
the gainers; delay the effect of at least one of the one or more commands input by at
least one of the gainers; reverse the effect of at least one of the one or more commands
input by at least one of the gainers; and modify the gameplay for all of the gainers
simultaneously.
[0010]     The computer system may be configured such that the one or more commands
input by a first gamer affect a first aspect of the gameplay and the one or more
commands input by a second gamer input affect a second aspect of the gameplay, and
wherein responsive to the signal, the processor modifies the first aspect gameplay to be
affected by the one or more commands input by the second gamer, and modifies the
second aspect of the gameplay to be affected by the one or more commands input by
the first gamer.
[0011]     The gameplay modification unit may comprise a host interface for allowing a
host to input one or more commands to facilitate generation of the signal.
[0012]     The gameplay modification unit may comprise a plurality of audience member
interfaces for allowing a corresponding plurality of audience members to input one or
more commands to facilitate generation of the signal. In this embodiment, the signal

                                              4
may be generated responsive to the commands input by the plurality of audience
members comprising at least a predetermined number of corresponding commands.
[0013]    The gameplay modification unit may generate the signal responsive to a
defined time period expiring. Also, the gameplay modification unit may generate the
signal responsive to identifying one or more aspects of the gameplay meeting a
predetermined criteria
[0014]    The computer system may include a communicatively linked plurality of the
game consoles.
[0015]    Responsive to the signal, the processor may modify the transmission of the
gameplay for at least one of the gamers.
[0016]    The computer system may include a monitor for displaying the gameplay for
at least one of the gamers. In this embodiment, responsive to the signal, the processor
may modify display of the gameplay.
[0017]    The transmission unit may comprise a projector for projecting the gameplay.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0018]    Embodiments will now be described by way of example only with reference to
the accompany drawings in which:
[0019]    Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a computer system for facilitating a
plurality of gamers playing a video game and transmission of the resulting gameplay to
an audience;
[0020]    Figure 2 is a diagram of an alternative computer system for facilitating a
plurality of gamers playing a video game and transmission of the resulting gameplay to
an audience; and
[0021]    Figure 3 is a screenshot of a host interface for a gameplay modifier unit which
is a component of the system shown in Figure 1 or 2.

                                              5
Description of Embodiments
[0022]    The present disclosure relates to a computer system for facilitating a plurality
of gamers playing a video game and transmission of the resulting gameplay to an
audience. The video game provides gameplay for each of the gamers based on
commands input by the gamers and by video game mechanics. The computer system
includes at least one game console to provide a gamer interface for allowing at least
one of the gamers to input one or more commands that have an effect on the gameplay,
a gameplay modification unit for generating a signal to modify the gameplay for at
least one of the gamers in real-time and which is arranged remotely from the at least
one game console, a processor to generate the gameplay for each of the gamers
responsive to the commands input by the gamers and by the video game mechanics and
to modify the gameplay for at least one of the gamers responsive to the signal generated
by the gameplay modification unit, and a transmission unit to transmit the gameplay for
each of the gamers to an audience.
[0023]    The disclosed computer system is intended to be simple to establish and use at
casual, amateur video game playing events, such as events held at a local community
centre, attended by the gamers and a live audience. In such applications, the system
may comprise a plurality of games consoles, such as arcade games cabinets and
associated games hardware, which may be temporarily installed in the community
centre and networked to a processor, gameplay modification unit and transmission unit,
thereby allowing multi-player gameplay to be viewed by the audience and selectively
modified by the gameplay modification unit.
[0024]    The gameplay modification unit may be operable by one or more of a host of
the event, the audience and automated means such as an algorithm, in real-time, to
affect one or more aspects of the gameplay. This advantageously allows the experience
of playing the video game and/or watching the gameplay to be instantaneously
modified, responsive to a wide range of criteria, to enhance engagement with the
gamers and/or the audience. For example, should one of the gamers clearly have an
advantage over all other gamers, this gamer may be handicapped by the host operating

                                             6
the gameplay modification unit to modify the gameplay to disadvantage the gamer,
thereby providing a more equal opportunity for any of the gamers to win the game and
consequently a more enjoyable experience for the gamers and the audience.
[0025]    The disclosed system may also involve the gamers being at remote locations,
such as the gamer's respective homes, and broadcasting the gameplay to a remote
audience, such as via online streaming. In this scenario, the system components would
typically be networked via the Internet. This configuration advantageously allows the
system infrastructure to be permanently established and accessed on an ad-hoc basis,
when required by the gamers and the audience, using online applications, potentially
further decreasing complexity of the system. Furthermore, this arrangement can
significantly increase the audience base, as audience members can view the gameplay
from virtually any location, including at home or in transit on a mobile device, and
therefore increases opportunities to display advertising or other digital content to the
audience.
[0026]    Regardless of whether the audience is attending an event to watch the
gameplay live, or watching the gameplay remotely using an online application, the
gameplay modification unit may be operable using a computer application which
receives input from audience members to affect the signal generated and resulting
gameplay modification. For example, the gameplay modification unit may include a
plurality of audience member interfaces which present various potential gameplay
modifications to the audience members and allows members to vote for a preferred
modification in real-time, whilst watching the gameplay. Then, responsive to receiving
a quantity of corresponding votes which exceed a defined threshold, this may cause the
gameplay modification unit to generate the signal to affect the most preferred gameplay
modification. This therefore provides a democratic gameplay modification process,
further enhancing engagement with the audience.
[0027]    Figure 1 shows a diagram of a computer system 10 for facilitating a plurality
of gamers playing a video game together and transmitting the resulting gameplay to an
audience, the video game providing gameplay for each of the gamers based on

                                               7
commands input by the gamers and by defined video game mechanics. The system 10
includes a plurality of game consoles, each in the form of an arcade game cabinet and
associated hardware 11, a gameplay modification unit 12, a processor 13 and a
transmission unit, in the form of a video projector 14, all communicatively connected
via a network, which may be wired, wireless or a combination of wired and wireless.
The gameplay modification unit 12 is typically arranged remotely from the game
consoles 11 to facilitate its use by the host/coordinator of a gaming event and/or by
members of the audience, and to avoid operation thereof by the gamers. In the
embodiment shown in Figure 1, the gameplay modification unit 12 takes the form of a
tablet computer or other portable computing device.
 [0028]   Each game console 11 is configured to provide a gamer interface for allowing
a gamer, or a team of gamers, to input one or more commands to control or otherwise
have an effect on at least one aspect of the gameplay. In the Figure 1 embodiment, all
of the game consoles 11 are configured to execute the same video game. The gamer
interface of each game console 11 includes a directional control device, such as a
joystick or trackball, and one or more action buttons for allowing input of directional
and other commands by a single gamer, or several directional control devices and
action buttons for allowing input of commands by a team of gamers. Each game
console 11 also comprises a screen for displaying the gameplay to the gamer or team of
gamers. In the embodiment shown in Figure 1, up to four gamers or four teams of
gamers are able to play the video game simultaneously.
 [0029]   The gameplay modification unit 12 is operable, in real-time, by one or more of
manual and automated input to generate a signal to modify the gameplay for at least
one of the gamers or teams of gamers. This may involve the gameplay modification
unit 12 comprising a computer application executed on a tablet computer and providing
an interface for manual input of commands to generate the gameplay modification
signal, as shown in Figure 3 and discussed in greater detail below. The gameplay
modification unit 12 may provide an interface for allowing a host/coordinator of a
video game playing event to manually affect gameplay in real time, responsive to a
range of factors, such as a performance of a particular gamer or team of gamers,

                                              8
audience reaction, or the host's personal preference. Also or alternatively, the gameplay
modification unit 12 may automatically generate a gameplay modification signal
randomly or in response to a range of factors, such as a defined time period expiring, or
one or more aspects of the performance of a gamer or team of gamers exceeding/falling
below a defined threshold.
[0030]     The processor 13 receives the commands input by the gamers and affects the
respective gameplay according to each command, in combination with the limitations
defined by the video game mechanics. The processor 13 also receives the signal
generated by the gameplay modification unit 12 and affects the gameplay for at least
one of the gamers as modified by the signal.
[0031]     The transmission unit 14 typically receives and transmits an audio-video (AV)
signal output from the processor 13, the AV signal being based on audio and video of
gameplay on the game consoles 11. For example, in the embodiment shown in Figure
1, the transmission unit 14 comprises a projector for projecting the video component of
the AV signal on to a screen, and speakers for playing the audio component of the AV
signal, thereby allowing many audience members attending an event to watch the
gameplay. Alternatively, the transmission unit 14 may be configured to broadcast the
AV signal via an online live stream to allow remote viewing of the gameplay by the
audience.
[0032]     The signal generated by the gameplay modification unit 12 may affect the
gameplay for at least one of the gamers or teams of gamers, and consequently affect the
gameplay broadcast for the audience, in any one or more of many different ways. For
example, the signal may involve modifying how various commands input by the
gamers control or have an effect on one or more aspects of the gameplay. For instance,
the signal may restrict the commands able to be input by at least one of the gamers,
such as preventing a gamer from inputting a command to cause a vehicle avatar to turn
left, thereby handicapping the gamer's ability to control the avatar. Similarly, the signal
may temporarily prevent the gamer from inputting any commands, thereby effectively
temporarily preventing the gamer from playing the video game. Also, the signal may

                                              9
delay or reverse commands input by the gamer, requiring the gamer to pre-emptively
input or modify commands to maintain typical control of the gameplay. These types of
modifications directly affect the gameplay for at least one of the gainers, typically
requiring affected gainers to increase concentration and consequently improving
engagement of the gamer with the gameplay.
[0033]     The signal generated by the gameplay modification unit 12 may also affect
control of the gameplay by the commands input by the gainers in other ways. For
instance, where a first gamer inputs commands to control a first aspect of the gameplay
and a second gamer inputs commands to control a second aspect of the gameplay, the
signal may reverse the effect the commands have on the gameplay, meaning the first
gamer controls the second aspect of the gameplay and the second gamer controls the
first aspect of the gameplay. For example, this may mean where commands input by
the first gamer control a first avatar and commands input by the second gamer control a
second avatar, the signal causes control of the avatars to be transferred so that the
commands input by the first gamer control the second avatar and commands input by
the second gamer control the first avatar.
[0034] Alternatively, control of gameplay may be configured to be responsive to
commands input by a plurality of gainers in a team, whereby, for example, a first gamer
inputs commands which can only cause an avatar to move left, and a second gamer
inputs commands which can only cause the avatar to move right, and so on. In this
scenario, the signal may modify which direction of movement of the avatar the various
commands control, and consequently modify the responsibility of the respective
gainers. This is particularly useful for team-building type events, as this prompts the
team of gainers to work together to achieve an objective and to adapt when the signal
modifies the gameplay.
[0035]     The signal generated by the gameplay modification unit 12 may affect the
gameplay in a wide range of different ways. Further examples of modifications of the
gameplay caused by the signal are set out in the table below. It will be appreciated that
the signal can affect the gameplay in more than one way at once, and therefore the

                                               10
effect caused by the signal may comprise a combination of two or more of the
gameplay modifications described above or in the table below.
 Signal no.    Gameplay modification (effected for one or more of the gamers)
  1           Where the gameplay involves an avatar moving across an x
               (horizontal) axis, commands which control x axis movements are
               inverted.
 2            Where the gameplay involves an avatar moving across a y (vertical)
               axis, commands which control y axis movements are inverted.
 3            A rate/speed of gameplay is adjusted. For example, gameplay is
              restricted to half-speed, or gameplay is accelerated to double-speed.
 4            Point scoring is adjusted. For example, where achieving a gameplay
               objective typically scores 200 points, this score is tripled.
 5            Where a gamer operating a joystick and action buttons inputs
               specific commands, the joystick and action buttons are reconfigured
               so that the action button commands are input by operating the
              joystick, and the joystick commands are input by operating the
               action buttons.
 6            Where a first gamer operating action buttons inputs commands to
               control a first avatar, and a second gamer inputs commands to
               control a second avatar, at least one of the action buttons is
              reconfigured to input commands to control the second avatar. This
               effects partial or full control of the second avatar whilst remaining
               in control of the first avatar.
 7             Gameplay is limited to a defined time period. For example, this may
               involve displaying a countdown timer within the gameplay.
 8             Temporarily cease display of the gameplay to a gamer whilst the
               gameplay continues, thereby preventing the gamer from viewing
               gameplay.
 9            Where a gamer operating action buttons inputs specific commands,

                                               11
                at least one action button is reconfigured to input a defined
                combination of commands. For example, where the gamer is
                typically required to input a combination of commands to effect an
                avatar performing a specific action, the action button is reconfigured
                to input this combination of commands responsive to a single
                operation of the button.
  10            Where a gamer operating action buttons inputs specific commands,
                at least one action button is reconfigured to temporarily disable
                inputting of all commands, effectively temporarily disabling control
                of gameplay.
[0036]    The signal generated by the gameplay modification unit 12 may also modify
display of the gameplay to the gamers and/or the audience. This may involve only
affecting the broadcast of the video game AV signal by the transmission unit 14 to
enhance the audience's experience, such as displaying the gameplay for the gamer or
team currently winning the game larger than the gameplay for all other gamers,
effectively focusing the video transmission on the currently prevalent gamer.
Alternatively, this may involve affecting the display of the video game for at least one
of the gamers, for example, by inverting the colours of the display, and/or inverting the
orientation of the display. This may handicap a particular gamer or team and/or
enhance the visual appeal of the game. Any such visual modifications are typically also
transmitted to the audience.
[0037]    The signal generated by the gameplay modification unit 12 may also modify
the video game mechanics, such as by substituting objects in the gameplay environment
for alternative objects, or modifying the geometry of the gameplay environment. This
sort of modification may be subtle, to enhance minor aspects of the gameplay, or may
be very bold and significantly affect how the video game operates, and therefore
significantly affect the gameplay experience for the gamers and audience.

                                             12
[0038]    Figure 2 is a diagram of an alternative computer system 20 for facilitating a
plurality of gamers playing a video game together and transmission of the resulting
gameplay to an audience. The system 20 is a variation of the computer system 10
shown in Figure 1 and shares some of the features of the system 10, whereby common
reference numerals indicate common features.
[0039]    The computer system 20 includes a plurality of game console terminals 21
able to execute one of a plurality of different video games, each terminal 21 comprising
an interface for a gamer or team of gamers (not illustrated) and a processor 23, and
communicatively connected via a network to the gameplay modification unit 12 and the
transmission unit 14. The processors 23 are shown divided into three portions 231, 232,
233. A first portion 231 is configured to execute a selected video game by accessing
instructions stored in a memory (not illustrated), including the relevant video game
mechanics defined in the instructions. The first portion 231 typically executes the
selected video game responsive to operation of a game select interface (not illustrated)
to select the video game, typically provided by the gameplay modification unit 12. The
second portion 232 is configured to execute the gameplay modification defined by the
signal provided by the gameplay modification unit 12. The third portion 233 is
connected to the respective gamer/team interface and configured to generate the
respective gameplay responsive to the video game mechanics for the selected video
game, commands input by the respective gamer/team, and the signal provided by the
gameplay modification unit 12. The gameplay is output by the third portion 232 as an
AV signal and provided to the transmission unit 14 for transmission to the audience.
The gameplay modification unit 12 may be further configured to allow modification of
the transmission to the audience, for example, by selecting transmission of one or more
of the AV signals by respective one or more of the processors 23, and also cease
transmission of all AV signals.
[0040]    Operation of the system 20 typically involves a user operating the game select
interface to select the video game, which prompts the first portion of the processer 231
to execute the game. Successively or concurrently, the gameplay modification unit 12
is operated by manual or automated input to generate the signal for affecting the

                                              13
gameplay. Responsive to receiving the signal from the gameplay modification unit 12,
the second portion 232 executes the gameplay modification defined by the signal. The
modified gameplay is then output by the third portion 232 to the transmission unit 14
for transmission to the audience. Responsive to receiving further signals from the
gameplay modification unit 12, the second portion 232 executes further gameplay
modifications defined by the further signals, which may include removing all
modifications to allow non-modified gameplay to be resumed. The system 20 may then
be operated to cease playing the video game and the above process repeated to facilitate
playing a different video game selected by operating the game select interface.
[0041]    Figure 3 illustrates a host/coordinator interface 30 provided by the gameplay
modification unit 12. This is generally configured as a user interface for a computer
application executed by a portable computing device, such as a tablet or laptop
computer, and displayed on a touch screen or monitor. The host interface 30 includes a
number of command inputs 31, such as buttons or touch points, to allow a host to enter
commands to generate a relevant signal to affect one or more aspects of the gameplay
for one or more of the gamers/teams and/or transmission of the gameplay. For example,
the host interface 30 illustrated in Figure 3 allows the host to modify gameplay for up
to four gamers/teams simultaneously, each gamer/team being assigned a column 32 of
command inputs 31. Command inputs 311 allow the host to control operation of each
display for displaying the gameplay for each of the gamers/teams, and to also terminate
operation of each display. Command inputs 312 allow the host to control start/stop of
the selected game and pause of the gameplay for each of the gamers/teams. Command
inputs 313 allow the host to control activation of any one or more of many different
modifications of the gameplay, as described above, for each of the gamers/teams,
and/or for all of the gamers/teams simultaneously.
[0042]    The gameplay modification unit 12 may also or alternatively be configured as
an audience member interface (not illustrated) to allow one or more audience members
to input commands to generate the gameplay modification signal. This may also be
configured as a user interface for a computer application executed and displayed by a

                                             14
portable computing device, such as a smartphone, to allow audience members attending
an event to affect the gameplay in real-time, whilst watching the gameplay.
[0043]    It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
and/or modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without
departing from the broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present
embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not
restrictive.
[0044]    Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.

                                              15
CLAIMS:
1.        A computer system for facilitating a plurality of gamers playing a video game
together and transmission of the resulting gameplay to an audience, the video game
providing gameplay for each of the gamers based on commands input by the gamers
and by video game mechanics, the computer system comprising:
          at least one game console to provide a gamer interface for allowing at least one
of the gamers to input one or more commands that have an effect on the gameplay;
          a gameplay modification unit for generating a signal to modify the gameplay
for at least one of the gamers in real-time, the gameplay modification unit being remote
from the at least one game console;
          a processor to generate the gameplay for each of the gamers responsive to the
commands input by the gamers and by the video game mechanics, and to modify the
gameplay for at least one of the gamers responsive to the signal; and
          a transmission unit to transmit the gameplay for each of the gamers to an
audience.
2.        The computer system according to claim 1, wherein responsive to the signal,
the processor modifies at least one of the video game mechanics, thereby modifying the
gameplay for at least one of the gamers.
3.        The computer system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein responsive to the
signal, the processor modifies one or more aspects of the gameplay affected by the one
or more commands input by at least one of the gamers, thereby modifying the
gameplay for the respective gamers.
4.        The computer system according to claim 3, wherein responsive to the signal,
the processor restricts the commands able to be input by at least one of the gamers.
5.        The computer system according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein responsive to
the signal, the processor prevents the effect of at least one of the one or more
commands input by at least one of the gamers.

                                            16
6.        The computer system according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein
responsive to the signal, the processor delays the effect of at least one of the one or
more commands input by at least one of the gainers.
7.        The computer system according to any one of claims 3 to 6, wherein
responsive to the signal, the processor reverses the effect of at least one of the one or
more commands input by at least one of the gainers.
8.        The computer system according to any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein the one
or more commands input by a first gamer affect a first aspect of the gameplay and the
one or more commands input by a second gamer input affect a second aspect of the
gameplay, and wherein responsive to the signal, the processor modifies the first aspect
gameplay to be affected by the one or more commands input by the second gamer, and
modifies the second aspect of the gameplay to be affected by the one or more
commands input by the first gamer.
9.        The computer system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the gameplay modification unit comprises a host interface for allowing a host to input
one or more commands to facilitate generation of the signal.
10.       The computer system according to any one of claims I to 9, wherein the
gameplay modification unit comprises a plurality of audience member interfaces for
allowing a corresponding plurality of audience members to input one or more
commands to facilitate generation of the signal.
11.       The computer system according to claim 10, wherein the signal is generated
responsive to the commands input by the plurality of audience members comprising at
least a predetermined number of corresponding commands.
12.       The computer system according to any one of claims I to 11, wherein the
gameplay modification unit generates the signal responsive to a defined time period
expiring.

                                           17
13.      The computer system according to any one of claims I to 12, wherein the
gameplay modification unit generates the signal responsive to identifying one or more
aspects of the gameplay meeting a predetermined criteria.
14.      The computer system according to any one of the preceding claims, further
comprising a communicatively linked plurality of the game consoles.
15.      The computer system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
responsive to the signal, the processor modifies the transmission of the gameplay for at
least one of the gamers.
16.      The computer system according to according to any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising a monitor for displaying the gameplay for at least one of the
gamers.
17.      The computer system according to claim 16, wherein responsive to the signal,
the processor modifies display of the gameplay.
18.      The computer system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the transmission unit comprises a projector for projecting the gameplay.
19.      The computer system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
responsive to the signal, the processor modifies the gameplay for all of the gamers
simultaneously.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

