                                              29
   ABSTRACT
   Various fabrics, compression garments and compression garment systems are
   described. Fabrics formed from wicking and absorbent materials provide effective
 5 compression and an improved environment next to a wearer's skin, which provides
   greater comfort and improved overall performance. Two and multi-layer compression
   garments are described. An outer layer may be formed with an opening having a
   closure and an elastic material joining the sides of the opening. This provides a first
   level of compression with the closure open and a second level of compression with
10 the closure closed and also helps a user in applying the garment.

              1/8
     00
CN)
co
CN)
C)
    0C)
           CN
        CN        L
C)
Eb

                                              1
                       FABRICS, COMPRESSION GARMENTS AND
                           COMPRESSION GARMENT SYSTEMS
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5
   The invention relates generally to fabrics, fabrics for compression therapy and
   compression garments formed from fabric.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
10
   Compression therapy is used for treatment or preventative therapy associated with
   circulatory problems, in particular with vascular disorders in the limbs, especially in
   the legs. Compression can assist with treatment or prevention of venous ulcers,
   embolism, oedema, thrombosis, deep vein thrombosis, varicose veins and other
15 venous insufficiencies.    Compression therapy is often used by older patients, by
   those with other health problems such as diabetes or with poor venous blood flow for
   whatever reason.
   Compression is usually measured by pressure applied (in mmHg) or by a class
20 system related to pressure. One class system defines: Class A compression as 10
   to 15 mmHg; Class 1 compression as 16 to 21 mmHg; Class 2 compression as 22 to
   30 mmHg; Class 3 compression as 34 to 46 mmHg and Class 4 compression as
   more than 46mmHg. Where pressure classes are referred to in this specification it is
   this system that is referenced.
25
   Compression may be applied by one or more elastic bandages wrapped tightly
   around the patient's limb. Applying these bandages is difficult and they are usually
   applied by a healthcare worker, not by the patient.     In addition to the difficulty for
   older patients in simply applying a bandage, some strength is required to achieve the
30 necessary compression particularly where a higher level of compression is required.
   This problem is exacerbated by the facts that bandages need to be changed often

                                                2
   and when applied to the limb have a tendency to slip or gradually loosen (resulting in
   lower pressure); and bandages can be applied incorrectly (e.g. too tightly) which can
   lead to significant health issues.
 5  It is also difficult to apply bandages to achieve a desired variation of the level of
   compression along the patient's limb. Typically the level of compression should be
   greatest at the extremities of the limb and fall gradually along the length of the limb.
   However, it is difficult to provide the correct variation by manual application of a
   bandage.      Some compression bandages are marked with a scale which provides a
10 rough indication of how far the bandage has been stretched and therefore some idea
   of the level of compression applied. However, this is a clumsy and unreliable system
   which relies on user skill in applying the bandage and correct interpretation of the
   scale.
15 Compression stockings are also known.          These are usually simply tubular elastic
   bandages which can be pulled on like a sock. Most provide an undesirable variation
   in compression, since their diameter is simply uniform along the length of the
   stocking and this shape does not match the variation in the shape of the limb. Some
   shaped garments are known, but these are still difficult for patients to apply.
20
   Compression stockings are typically formed predominantly from a synthetic material
   and may include an elastic material to provide the necessary compression.
   Existing compression stockings do not provide an optimal environment near the
25 user's skin.       In addition to requiring compression to treat underlying vascular
   disorders, patients often have wounds in their skin (typically ulcers) which must heal.
   The Applicant has found that existing compression stockings slow or prevent
   healing, or even contribute to development of further wounds or undesirable skin
   conditions, by adversely affecting the microenvironment around the wearer's skin.
30 Such adverse effects include promoting excessive moisture or heat as well as
   physical irritation of the skin.

                                              3
   Compression bandages or garments must be worn routinely over a long period of
   time to have any benefit.         Compression bandages or garments which are
   uncomfortable because of poor design, incorrect application or undesirable effects
   on the user's skin environment are therefore particularly problematic.
 5
   It is an object of the invention to provide an improved fabric and/or improved
   compression garment and/or improved compression garment system, or at least to
   provide the public with a useful choice.
10 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   In one aspect the invention provides a multilayer compression garment system
   including: an inner fabric compression garment configured, in use, to apply a first
   predetermined level of compression, the inner fabric compression garment including
15 a single fabric layer that is knitted or woven from at least threads of a moisture
   absorbent natural wool material and threads of a synthetic wicking material, wherein
   the knitted or woven structure of the single fabric layer is such that: the threads of
   the moisture absorbent natural wool material are presented to an inner surface of the
   single fabric layer, such that the inner surface of the single fabric layer is formed at
20 least predominantly by the moisture absorbent natural wool material; and the threads
   of the synthetic wicking material are presented to an outer surface of the single fabric
   layer, such that the outer surface of the single fabric layer is formed at least
   predominantly by the synthetic wicking material; and an outer fabric compression
   garment configured, in use, to be applied and worn over the inner fabric compression
25 garment and to apply a second predetermined level of compression, the outer fabric
   compression garment including a synthetic wicking material; wherein, in use, the
   inner and outer compression garments together apply a cumulative level of
   compression.
30

                                                 4
   Preferably, in use: moisture vapour in a wearer's skin environment is absorbed by
   the moisture absorbent material in the inner garment; absorbed moisture in the
   moisture absorbent material in the inner garment is released towards the exterior of
   the inner garment; liquid moisture in the skin environment is wicked through the inner
 5 garment by the wicking material in the inner garment to the interface between the
   inner and outer garments; and liquid moisture at the interface is wicked into the outer
   garment by the second material in the outer garment.
   Preferably the compression garment system is a two-layer compression garment
10 system.
   Preferably the inner garment is a compression stocking.
   Preferably the first predetermined level of compression is in the range 5 to 22
15 mmHg. More preferably the first predetermined level of compression is in the range
   10 to 15 mmHg.
   Preferably the outer surface of the inner garment has a low fabric-to-fabric coefficient
   of friction to ease application of the outer garment over the inner garment.
20
   Preferably the outer garment also includes a moisture absorbent material.
   In a second aspect the invention provides a two-layer compression garment system
   including: an inner fabric compression layer configured, in use, to apply a first
25 predetermined level of compression; and two or more outer fabric compression
   layers, each configured, in use, to be applied directly over the inner fabric
   compression layer, each providing a different predetermined level of compression;
   such that the inner fabric compression layer and a selected one of the two or more
   outer fabric compression layers can be applied in order to achieve a desired
30 cumulative level of compression.

                                              5
   In a third aspect the invention provides a two-layer compression garment system
   including: an inner fabric compression layer configured, in use, to apply a first
   predetermined level of compression; and an outer fabric compression layer selected
   from two or more outer fabric compression layers, each configured, in use, to be
 5 applied over the inner fabric compression layer, each providing a different
   predetermined level of compression; such that the inner fabric compression layer
   and the selected outer fabric compression layer can be applied in order to achieve a
   desired cumulative level of compression.
10 In relation to the second and third aspects, preferably the inner fabric compression
   layer is a shaped compression garment.
   In relation to the second and third aspects, preferably each outer fabric compression
   layer is a shaped compression garment.
15
   In relation to the second and third aspects, preferably each outer fabric compression
   layer includes: a shaped fabric body; an opening extending over at least a part of the
   fabric body; an elastic material connected at both sides of the opening such that, in
   use, the elastic material tends to draw the sides of the opening together; and a
20 closure configured to close the opening. Preferably each outer fabric compression
   layer provides, in use, a first predetermined level of compression when the opening
   is closed and a second predetermined level of compression when the opening is
   open. Preferably the elastic material of each outer fabric compression layer is
   configured to contract so as to lie flat underneath the shaped fabric body when, in
25 use, the opening is closed. Preferably a compression force provided by the garment
   system in use is graduated along the length of the shaped fabric body.
   In relation to the second and third aspects, preferably the first predetermined level of
   compression is in the range 5 to 22 mmHg.
30

                                               6
   In relation to the second and third aspects, preferably the cumulative level of
   compression achieved responsive to application of the inner fabric compression
   garment and a first one of the outer fabric compression layers is in the range 16 to
   21 mmHg.
 5
   In relation to the second and third aspects, preferably the cumulative level of
   compression achieved responsive to application of the inner fabric compression
   garment and a second one of the further outer fabric compression garments is in the
   range 22 to 30 mmHg.
10
   In relation to the second and third aspects, preferably the cumulative level of
   compression achieved responsive to application of the inner fabric compression
   garment and a third one of the outer fabric compression garment is in the range 34
   to 36 mmHg.
15
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention will now be described by way of example only, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
20
   Figure 1       is a side view of a compression garment according to one
                  embodiment;
   Figure 2A      is a side view of a further compression garment;
   Figure 2B      is a side view of a further compression garment;
25 Figure 2C      is a side view of a further compression garment;
   Figure 3       is a side view of a compression garment system in a first
                  configuration;
   Figure 4       is a rear view of the compression garment system of Figure 3;
   Figure 5       is a side view of the compression garment system of Figure 3, in a
30                second configuration;
   Figure 6       is a rear view of the compression garment system of Figure 5;

                                               7
   Figure 7        is a perspective view of a compression garment system according to
                   a further embodiment;
   Figure 8        is a sectional view through part of the compression garment system of
                   Figure 7;
 5 Figure 9        shows one surface of a fabric;
   Figure 9A       shows the other surface of the fabric of Figure 9;
   Figure 10       shows one surface of another fabric;
   Figure 10A      shows the other surface of the fabric of Figure 10;
   Figure 11       shows one surface of a further fabric;
10 Figure 11A      shows the other surface of the fabric of Figure 11;
   Figure 12       shows one surface of yet another fabric;
   Figure 12A      shows the other surface of the fabric of Figure 12; and
   Figure 13       is a Scanning Electron Microscope image of one embodiment of the
                   Applicant's fabric, showing wool and synthetic fibres.
15
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Figure 1 shows a compression garment 1 in the form of the stocking. This garment
   can be used on its own to provide a level of compression, or may form an inner layer
20 of a multilayer compression garment system, as discussed below.
   The compression garment 1 is dimensioned and shaped to provide a desired level of
   compression when applied to a wearer's lower leg. The garment 1 also preferably
   provides a desired variation of compression over the garment, with maximum
25 compression around the ankle and the level of pressure gradually reducing over the
   upper part of the garment 1. Generally the level of pressure provided by a graduated
   pressure garment may be greater towards the extremity.
   The compression garment 1 is selected for or by a wearer based on sizing
30 information or a measurement of a body part. For example, the appropriate size of
   garment 1 may be selected based on a measurement of the wearer's ankle.

                                                 8
   The compression garment is formed from a fabric body 2.                The fabric body is
   preferably formed as a single fabric layer as described below.
   The garment 1 may include a number of handles or loops 3 which help a user to
 5 apply the garment 1. In the example shown a loop 3 is positioned at the top of the
   garment 1 and can be pulled by the wearer to assist in putting on the garment 1.
   The garment may also include a number of touch markers 5, 6. These are markers
   arranged to be detected by touch. This is particularly advantageous because many
10 wearers requiring compression therapy have failing vision due to age or underlying
   health problems. The touch markers 5, 6 help those wearers to properly align the
   garment 1. The touch markers 5, 6 may be separate components, such as plastic
   components applied to the fabric body 2, or a fabric solution such as raised stitching
   may be formed as part of the fabric body. The touch markers 5, 6 may provide
15 information in addition to their position. For example, different touch marker patterns
   could be used for compression garments of different compression classes or sizes,
   providing a non-visual indication of class or size. The touch markers may also be
   visible markers (for example raised coloured stitching).
20 Figures 2A, 2B and 2C show three different compression garments 10, 11, 12. Each
   compression garment could be applied as a standalone garment, but preferably the
   garments of Figures 2A to 2C are used as part of a multilayer compression garment
   system. In one embodiment the garment of any one of Figures 2A to 2C is used as
   an outer compression layer over an inner compression layer formed by the garment
25 of Figure 1. When used in this way, the inner garment 1 may have a low fabric-to
   fabric coefficient of friction to ease application of the outer layer over the inner layer.
   In one embodiment each of the garments may be constructed, dimensioned and/or
   shaped so as to provide a different level of compression.                 For example, a
30 compression garment system may provide the following compression options.
   Applying the garment of Figure 1 alone provides Class A compression (i.e. 10 to 15

                                              9
   mmHg).    Applying the garment of Figure 1 as an inner layer, with the garment of
   Figure 2A as an outer layer provides Class 1 compression (i.e. 16 to 21 mmHg).
   Applying the garment of Figure 1 as an inner layer, with the garment of Figure 2B as
   an outer layer provides Class 2 compression (i.e. 22 to 30 mmHg).       Applying the
 5 garment of Figure 1 as an inner layer, with the garment of Figure 2C as an outer
   layer provides Class 3 compression (i.e. 34 to 46 mmHg).        Thus the Applicant's
   compression garment system provides a range of options using the same inner layer
   with an outer layer chosen for the degree of compression required by the wearer.
10 The garments of Figures 2A, 2B and 2C are generally of similar configuration, so
   only Figure 2A will be discussed further. The garment 10 includes a lower portion 14
   which receives a user's foot and ankle. This portion may have a toe opening 15 and
   a heel opening 16, which reduces the amount of material around the foot and, for
   some users, may make it easier to apply the garment. The garment 10 also includes
15 an upper portion 17 shaped to fit around a wearer's lower leg or calf region. Again,
   handles or loops 18 may be provided to help a wearer to pull the garment on. Touch
   markers 19 help the wearer to correctly align the garment 10.
   The compression garment system including the inner garment 1 and choice of outer
20 garments 10, 11, 12 may be provided in a range of sizes.
   Figures 3 and 4 show the garment 10 with a zip closure 21 in an open position. The
   garment 10 includes an opening 22 which can be closed by the closure 21.         The
   opening may extend all the way to the top edge of the garment 10. The opening is
25 shown at the rear of the garment, which may provide easy access to the closure.
   However, the opening could be positioned at any suitable position around the
   garment 10.
   Although the drawings show a zip closure, other suitable closures could be used,
30 including hook and loop fasteners, domes, snap fasteners, buckles and/or releasable
   adhesive. Where a zip closure is used a loop or handle 23 may be positioned below

                                              10
   the zip. Pulling on this loop or handle helps to straighten the line of the zip, which
   makes it easier to do up the zip.
   Figures 5 and 6 show the garment 10 with the zip closure 21 in a closed position. In
 5 this position the closure provides a fixed connection between the two sides 25, 26 of
   the opening 22. In the closed position the shaped fabric body 28 of the garment 10
   provides a first predetermined level of compression.
   Figure 7 shows a further embodiment in which a compression garment 30 includes
10 an opening 31 which can be closed by a zip fastener or other closure (not shown in
   Figure 7). A panel or band of elastic material 32 extends across the opening, being
   attached at or near the two sides 33, 34 of the opening 31. The elastic material may
   extend over the entire length of the opening, as shown in Figure 7, or a band (of e.g.
   5 to 10cm in width) could be used near the top of the opening.           Alternatively a
15 number of bands of elastic material could be distributed along the length of the
   opening.
   This structure is clearly shown in Figure 8, which is a sectional view through the
   garment 30. This structure may be used in the garment of any one of Figures 2A to
20 6. The garment may be a standalone compression garment or part of a multilayer
   compression system, as shown in Figure 7.
   The elastic material 32 tends to draw the two sides 33, 34 of the opening together
   when the closure is in an open position. This elastic material helps to bring the sides
25 of the closure together, which makes it easier to close the closure. When the closure
   is closed, the elastic material contracts so as to lie flat under the fabric body of the
   garment 30. This is important for comfort and safety, since fabric bunching under
   the fabric body could irritate the skin, cause a pressure point, or even interfere with
   the circulatory system.
30

                                               11
   In addition, the elastic material can be used to provide a second predetermined level
   of compression. So, the compression garment 30 has two alternative, functional
   configurations. In one configuration the closure is closed and the fabric body of the
   garment provides a first predetermined level of compression.              In a second
 5 configuration the closure is open and the elastic material 32 together with the fabric
   body of the garment 30 provides a second predetermined level of compression. This
   is particularly advantageous because a wearer can partially release the compression
   pressure by opening the closure. Wearers are often required to wear compression
   bandages or garments for a long period of time, and this feature provides for some
10 relief through temporary and partial release of the pressure without removing the
   garment. In one example, the second level of pressure is around 4 to 12 mmHg less
   than the first level of pressure, preferably around 6mmHg less than the first level of
   pressure.
15 The Applicant has developed new fabrics. These fabrics may provide improved
   performance in compression garments and in multi-layer compression garment
   systems.
   The new fabrics provide excellent compression properties while also regulating the
20 skin environment of the user. This regulation provides an excellent environment for
   healing of any wounds or lesions on the skin underneath the compression garment.
   The garment may regulate moisture levels and/or temperature of the skin
   environment.       This regulated    skin environment provides a healthy, natural
   environment in which the skin can function as well as possible. This provides two
25 important advantages. First, good conditions are provided for healing of existing
   wounds or lesions. Second, the skin is given the best chance of resisting
   development of further skin conditions. This is particularly important for patients with
   poor blood flow because small skin problems can rapidly worsen (especially where
   skin conditions are poor, as they are beneath many prior compression systems).
30

                                               12
   Regulation is provided partly through the use of absorbent materials and partly
   through the use of wicking materials.
   In this specification the term "absorbent" refers to a material capable of absorbing
 5 moisture vapour and subsequently releasing or desorbing that moisture vapour to
   the surrounding environment.       The term "wicking" refers to a material with low
   absorption of moisture, but which will transport liquid moisture by capillary action or
   some other suitable mechanism.
10 The absorbent and wicking materials may be processed by knitting or weaving or
   other suitable process into a single fabric layer including both materials. Preferably
   the single fabric layer is formed such that one surface (which will be the inner
   surface of the compression garment) is formed predominantly by the absorbent
   material, while the other surface (which will be the outer surface of the compression
15 garment) is formed predominantly from the wicking material.           This allows the
   absorbent material to be in contact with the skin while the wicking material is
   separated from the skin.
   In such a fabric, liquid moisture in the skin environment is wicked away from the skin
20 by the wicking material.     Moisture vapour (e.g. water vapour) is absorbed by the
   absorbent material and then released from the absorbent material away from the
   skin. Thus both moisture vapour and liquid moisture are effectively removed from
   the skin environment.
25 Where merino wool or a similar material is used as the absorbent material, moisture
   vapour is absorbed (into the wool's hydrophilic interior) from the high-humidity skin
   environment and is released (desorbed, or diffused) to the external environment. A
   porous synthetic outer garment does not prevent this diffusion because it does not
   interact with moisture vapour and is a porous knit structure.
30

                                              13
   Liquid moisture does not readily adhere to the surface of merino wool or similar
   materials due to the hydrophobic exterior of the wool fibres. The wicking material
   therefore pulls liquid moisture through the fabric to the outside of the garment where
   it can evaporate.
 5
   Thus, the fabric is generally a bi-component fabric constructed from two fibre types
   having distinct physical and chemical properties. The differing moisture absorbency
   and wicking behaviours of the two fibres means that moisture will be drawn through
   the structure to the outside where it can evaporate, keeping the skin dry.
10
   The two fibre types are placed separately in the fabric structure, for example by
   placing one fibre type exclusively or predominantly on one side of the fabric, and
   placing the other fibre type exclusively or predominantly on the other side.
   Alternatively the two fibre types can be combined in an alternating stripe
15 configuration.
   In one embodiment the absorbent material is merino wool.           Merino wool and its
   natural thermoregulatory properties provide excellent next-to-skin comfort.
20 However, other suitable materials may be used for the absorbent material, including
   natural materials, wool, or even synthetics providing the properties required.
   Increasingly synthetic fibres are being developed to mimic the properties of natural
   fibres (including wool and merino wool) and such fibres are intended to fall within the
   scope of the invention.
25
   The absorbent material may be a hygroscopic material. The absorbent material may
   be composed of fibres having a hydrophilic core and a hydrophobic surface. The
   moisture absorbent material may be a temperature regulating material.              The
   moisture absorbent material may also be an odour-inhibiting material.            These
30 properties are all provided by wool, and particularly by merino wool.

                                                 14
   The moisture absorbent material may have anti-microbial properties. It is believed
   that wool, and particularly merino wool, may have anti-microbial properties. Other
   fabrics may be modified to have anti-microbial properties, for example by the
   addition of antimicrobial agents.
 5
   Merino wool has been shown to have naturally effective resistance to odour build-up.
   Merino wool absorbs and traps odours; and has surface properties inhospitable to
   microbial growth.     Other fibres need to be modified (such as by the addition of
   antimicrobial agents) to be odour retardant.
10
   Such properties are advantageous for next to skin surfaces where wound healing is
   a factor.
   The moisture absorbent material may have an average fibre diameter in the range
15 13 to 23 pm (provided by most merino wool) but preferably has a diameter less than
   19 pm for excellent next-to-skin comfort.
   The moisture absorbent material may have a standard regain of around 10 to 20%,
   with merino wool providing a standard regain around 17%. Regain is the moisture
20 content as a percentage of the fibre's dry weight. Standard regain is measured at
   20 0 C and 65% relative humidity and is an indication of the moisture buffering
   capability of the fibre, higher standard regain means greater buffering capability.
   The moisture absorbent material may have a saturation regain of around 30 to 40%,
25 with merino wool providing a saturation regain of around 35%. Saturation regain is
   measured at 100% relative humidity.           This is another indication of the moisture
   buffering capability of the fibre; specifically it indicates how much moisture it can hold
   before feeling damp.
30 The moisture absorbent material may have a thermal conductivity greater than 160
   mW/m/K, preferably around 160 to 240 mW/m/K, with merino wool providing a

                                                 15
   thermal conductivity of around 193 mW/m/K. Thermal conductivity is a measure of
   how easily heat flows through a material. Lower conductivity means better insulation
   but fibre thermal conductivity is only one factor in overall fabric insulation (trapping
   air is of greater significance). Wool has lower thermal conductivity than its main
 5 hosiery competitors: cotton and nylon (the latter being the usual fibre type used in
   compression hosiery). The natural crimp of merino wool helps it to trap air.
   The moisture absorbent material may have a limiting oxygen index (LOI) greater
   than 21, preferably around 24 to 26, with merino wool providing an LOI of around 25.
10 LOI is a measure of flammability and is defined as the volume percentage of oxygen
   in a nitrogen/oxygen mixture that will just permit burning. The volume percentage of
   oxygen in air is 21%, so materials having an LOI greater than this will not sustain
   burning in air. Merino wool's LOI is > 21, so it will not sustain burning.
15 Static electricity build up in apparel situations is usually a minor inconvenience to the
   wearer. Merino wool has inherently low static build up, thought to be due to its
   relatively high moisture content. Synthetic fibres (having low moisture content) are
   more prone to static build-up, and may need special chemical treatments to reduce
   this.
20
   Merino wool has a fibre density within the range of the other commonly-used fibre
   types.
   The wicking material may be composed of fibres having a hydrophilic surface and
25 low moisture absorption. The wicking material may be an abrasion resistant material.
   Synthetic materials may be suitable for the wicking material, including polyester,
   nylon or polypropylene.

                                              16
   The absorbent material and the synthetic material may be combined in any suitable
   proportion, but generally a ratio of absorbent material to wicking material by weight
   between 1:3 and 3:1 is expected to provide satisfactory performance.
 5 In one embodiment the fabric is a knitted fabric, such as a two face, single jersey
   knitted fabric. However, it may be possible to form the fabric by weaving or some
   other process.
   The fabric may be weft-knitted on a circular knitting machine of gauge greater than
10 20 needles per inch (double jersey) and 26 needles per inch (single jersey).
   During knitting an elastic material such as elastomeric fibre (e.g. elastane or
   spandex) may be knitted with some or all of the other yarns or otherwise introduced
   into the fabric layer. Elastane is a fibre of greater than 85% polyurethane, with
15 extremely high extension at breaking point (more than 200%) and good elastic
   recovery.
   The elastane yarn may be positioned such that it lies inside the plane of the fabric,
   and is not exposed on either face. The elastane is knitted in such a way to provide
20 maximum stretch and recovery to the fabric, allowing it to be used in medical or
   sports applications to provide beneficial levels of mechanical compression to the
   body of the wearer. While the fabric without elastane provides some compression,
   the level of this compression would creep over time and the fabric would most likely
   not recover well after use.    The elastane also helps to "pull in" the fabric during
25 manufacture so that the finished fabric is capable of a large amount of extension.
   The elastic material may form up to 50%, preferably 20 to 35%, of the weight of the
   single fabric layer. The finished fabric may have a maximum extension between 35
   and 55% by length.
30

                                                17
   The Applicant's material shows improved recovery properties over prior compression
   garment materials.       In particular, the Applicant's fabric has a strong tendency to
   dimensionally recover during laundering, which helps to return the compression
   garments back to their original size, or close to that size. All compression garments
 5 tend to stretch and extend in circumference during use, and if there is insufficient
   recovery after removal of the garment the unextended size of the garment will
   gradually increase and the level of compression provided will gradually decrease. In
   other words, there can be a residual extension when the load is removed.
10 In contrast to prior garments, when the Applicant's garment is washed, it returns
   strongly to its original size so the wearer receives the designed level of compression.
   In other words, the Applicant's garment will function as designed for a greater
   number of wash cycles, and therefore over a longer useful life, than prior garments.
   The Applicant believes this is at least partly due to the use of wool, particularly
15 merino wool, in the fabrics discussed herein.         In particular it is believed that any
   temporary deformation of fibres (bending or stretching) caused by stretching the
   fabric is relaxed by wet laundering. This improved recovery means that the garment
   can provide the intended physiological benefit to the user over a longer period of
   time.
20
   The Applicant has tested its product against existing compression products. Results
   of that testing are shown in the following table.          Product A is a commercially
   available sock intended for use on long flights etc and formed from 93% polyamide
   material with designed compression around 14 to 17 mmHg.                   Product B is a
25 commercially available medical support stocking formed from 69% polyamide
   material with designed compression around 30 mmHg. Product C is a commercially
   available sports sock formed from            91%   polyamide      material with   designed
   compression around 18-25 mmHg. The basic composition in all cases is nylon with
   an elastomeric fibre (referred to in this document by the generic term 'elastane')
30 included to provide the compressive force and stretch/recovery behaviour. The

                                             18
   amount of elastane present is relatively high, as expected for a product offering
   therapeutic levels of compression.
   This testing involved taking a section from the lower section of each garment. That
 5 section was put under load (to a designated size) every day for eight hours. The
   garment was laundered once a week.         The percentages given in the table are
   calculated as 100(sl-s2)/sl, where s1 is the size of garment before washing and s2
   is the size of garment after washing. These figures show that the Applicant's
   garment recovers strongly on washing over a prolonged period.
10
                                                                 Applicant's
                           Product A    Product B   Product C    garment
        Week 1             ---         ---          ---          --
        Week 2             7.3%        4.1%         8.8%         13.9%
        Week 3             9.7%        6.3%         10.8%        15.3%
        Week 4             12.3%       6.7%         13.1%        19.7%
        Week 5             11.3%       7.9%         13.8%        19.5%
        Week 6             12.2%       6.0%         13.0%        17.9%
        Week 7             10.5%       7.3%         11.1%        17.4%
        Week 8             12.2%       7.9%         12.7%        20.8%
        Week 10            12.1%       7.8%         12.7%        21.6%
        Week 11            11.8%       9.6%         11.5%        19.3%
        Week 12            11.0%       7.4%         12.4%        19.2%
        Week 13            13.7%       7.2%         11.9%        21.0%
        Week 14            12.2%       7.3%         12.7%        18.9%
        Week 15            10.4%       9.3%         12.7%        20.2%
        Week 16            12.9%       7.9%         12.6%        19.7%
        Week 17            12.2%       7.9%         11.8%        21.8%
        Week 18            11.9%       8.1%         12.4%        20.8%
        Week 20            11.3%       7.3%         12.7%        16.5%

                                               19
        Mean                11.5%        7.4%         12.2%       19.0%
   Testing has been conducted as to the effects of the Applicant's graduated
   compression stockings on lower limb venous haemo-dynamics in seated adults with
   normal peripheral circulation.      The study is a randomised controlled Doppler
 5 Ultrasound trial comparing one limb with the stocking applied, to the other limb with
   no stocking applied (control).
   The primary outcome is an improvement in peak venous velocity in the popliteal
   vein, in participants seated over a 120 minute timeframe, while wearing an Encircle
10 below-knee merino graduated compression stocking, compared with not wearing a
   stocking.
   In addition, there is improvement in mean venous velocity, vein diameter, total
   volume flow in the popliteal vein, and size (circumference) and shape of the limb, in
15 participants seated over a 120 minute timeframe, while wearing an Encircle below
   knee merino graduated compression stocking, compared with not wearing a
   stocking.
   The fabric may be processed, e.g. through a scour treatment (textile washing
20 process), in order to remove any residues, such as grease or processing lubricants
   that are present during the knitting or yarn spinning process and then Santex dried.
   Figures 9 and 9A show first and second faces of a fabric formed from merino wool
   and a synthetic wicking material. Figure 9 shows one face, formed by stitches of the
25 synthetic wicking material. Figure 9B shows the other face, formed by stitches of the
   merino wool.
   Figures 10 and 1OA show first and second faces of a further fabric. In this example,
   a double jersey fabric has been constructed where merino wool yarns (14 tex, 19pm
30 mean fibre diameter) are knitted just to one side of the structure (all knit on the dial

                                                20
   needles) and a branded polyester multifilament (ADVANSA Thermo'Cool TM , 83
   decitex, 72 filaments) is knitted to the other side of the structure (all knit on the
   cylinder needles). The two layers are then linked together to form a single fabric by
   tucking alternating dial and cylinder needles with additional ThermooCoolTM yarn. A
 5 78 decitex branded elastane (Invista Elaspan@) is knitted on the dial and cylinder
   stitches (but not the alternating dial and cylinder tuck stitches used to hold together
   the merino and the ThermOCoolTM layers).
   Thus the inner surface is formed by a first set of knit stitches formed at least
10 predominantly from the moisture absorbent material and the outer surface is formed
   by a second set of knit stitches formed at least predominantly from the wicking
   material, with a set of tuck stitches linking the knit stitches.
   ThermoCoolTM polyester is a multifilament synthetic yarn, which contains both flat
15 channelled fibres and round hollow-core fibres. The flat channelled fibres have high
   relative surface area and wick sweat and moisture away from the skin to the fabric's
   surface where it can evaporate, while the hollow fibres trap air in the centre of the
   fibre for improved insulation.
20 Keeping the polyester and the merino components on separate sides of the fabric
   structure gives benefits in terms of comfort and performance.
   Performance of the resultant fabric would be described as heavy-weight with
   maximum stretch and powerful recovery due to it being processed at temperatures
25 below that which would set the elastane (which occurs at 1900 and above). However,
   other forms of fabric may be suitable, including light-weight materials and materials
   with lower stretch.
   Figures 11 and 11 A show the two faces of a further example fabric.
30
   Figures 12 and 12A show the two faces of yet another example fabric.

                                              21
   Figure 13 is a Scanning Electron Microscope image showing the structure of one
   embodiment of the Applicant's fabric. Here the separate groupings of merino fibres
   85 and synthetic fibres 86 can clearly be seen.
 5
   Any of these fabrics may be used to form any of the compression garments
   described in this specification.
   The single fabric layer may either be knitted as a flat fabric layer and then processed
10 to form the finished compression garment, or may be formed by an integral knitting
   process which essentially results in the finished garment. Any of the compression
   garments described in this specification could be formed in either of these ways.
   In a multilayer compression garment system the inner layer is preferably formed from
15 a fabric as described above. Outer layers may also be formed from these fabrics,
   but could be of different fabrics. Preferably if another fabric is used it should at least
   include a wicking material so that liquid moisture can be effectively wicked to the
   outside of the garment system.
20 In a two-layer system liquid moisture wicked through the inner layer as discussed
   above will be wicked from the interface between the inner and outer layers through
   the outer layer where it can evaporate. Moisture vapour released from the absorbent
   material in the inner layer may either pass through a porous outer layer or, if
   absorbent material is also provided in the outer layer, be absorbed and released by
25 that material to the outside of the garment system, in a similar manner to that
   discussed above.
   Note that extreme conditions (in particular where the external environment has
   extremely high humidity) the absorption / desorption of moisture vapour and the
30 evaporation of moisture from the outside of the garment or garment system may be

                                              22
   diminished or may not work effectively. However, in normal conditions the garments
   and garment systems are designed to function as described above.
   Although the Applicant's garments have            been described with reference to
 5 compression garments for the lower leg, compression garments for other parts of the
   body also fall within the scope of the invention.
   The Applicant's fabrics provide good compression characteristics, with the ability to
   create compression garments providing specific compression levels. The structure
10 of the fabrics and the materials used provide an excellent skin environment, in which
   moisture and temperature levels are kept at satisfactory levels. This helps with the
   healing of wounds or lesions and also provides a more comfortable compression
   garment. Comfort is especially important since these types of garment must be worn
   for long periods of time.
15
   Particularly where merino wool or similar materials are used in conjunction with
   wicking materials, both water vapour and liquid moisture can be effectively removed
   from the skin environment while the wool also assists in regulating the temperature
   of that environment.
20
   The Applicant's garments and garment systems are also relatively easy to apply.
   The garments are designed for application by older or weaker patients without
   professional assistance, at least up to class 2 compression. This is achieved by a
   layered system in which compression is provided by two or more garments which
25 can be separately applied. Older or weaker patients will find it easier to apply two
   layers each providing part of the required compression, which builds up the total
   level of pressure applied, than a single, much firmer, layer providing the entire
   compression.
30 The garments may also be provided with handles or loops to assist with application
   and with touch markers to assist with alignment.

                                              23
   At higher compression levels professional assistance may be required for application
   of an outer garment. However, application is still expected to be easier and faster
   than for many prior compression systems.        In any case, compression therapy at
   higher compression levels is required to be supervised by healthcare professionals.
 5
   The design of the outer garment, with an opening and closure also assists
   application, since only the lower part of the garment need be pulled forcefully over
   the patient's foot. The upper portion, with the closure in an open position, has a
   large diameter and is relatively easily pulled over the foot and positioned around the
10 calf. The elastic material attached across the opening both assists with closing the
   closure and importantly provides a second designed level of compression. A wearer
   can temporarily reduce the compression pressure by releasing the closure. A lesser
   level of compression is applied until the closure is closed again. So there is no need
   to remove the entire garment in order to obtain some temporary relief.
15
   While the present invention has been illustrated by the description of the
   embodiments thereof, and while the embodiments have been described in detail, it is
   not the intention of the Applicant to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the
   appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily
20 appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore, the invention in its broader aspects is
   not limited to the specific details, representative apparatus and methods, and
   illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly, departures may be made
   from such details without departure from the spirit or scope of the Applicant's general
   inventive concept.
25

                                               24
   CLAIMS:
   1. A multilayer compression garment system including:
         i.   an inner fabric compression garment configured, in use, to apply a first
 5            predetermined level of compression, the inner fabric compression
              garment including a single fabric layer that is knitted or woven from at
              least threads of a moisture absorbent natural wool material and threads of
              a synthetic wicking material, wherein the knitted or woven structure of the
              single fabric layer is such that:
10                the threads of the moisture absorbent natural wool material are
                  presented to an inner surface of the single fabric layer, such that the
                  inner   surface of the single fabric       layer  is formed   at least
                  predominantly by the moisture absorbent natural wool material; and
                  the threads of the synthetic wicking material are presented to an outer
15                surface of the single fabric layer, such that the outer surface of the
                  single fabric layer is formed at least predominantly by the synthetic
                  wicking material;
        ii.   an outer fabric compression garment configured, in use, to be applied
              and worn over the inner fabric compression garment and to apply a
20            second predetermined level of compression, the outer fabric compression
              garment including a synthetic wicking material;
      wherein, in use, the inner and outer compression garments together apply a
      cumulative level of compression.
25 2. A multilayer compression garment system as claimed in claim 1 wherein, in use:
              a. moisture vapour in a wearer's skin environment is absorbed by the
                  moisture absorbent natural wool material in the inner garment;
              b. absorbed moisture in the moisture absorbent natural wool material in
                  the inner garment is released towards the exterior of the inner
30                garment;

                                              25
               c. liquid moisture in the skin environment is wicked through the inner
                  garment by the wicking material in the inner garment to the interface
                  between the inner and outer garments; and
               d. liquid moisture at the interface between the inner and outer garments
 5                is wicked into the outer garment by the wicking material in the outer
                  garment.
   3. A compression garment system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, being a two-layer
      compression garment system in which the inner garment and a single outer
10    garment are applied to provide the cumulative level of compression.
   4. A compression garment system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the
      inner garment is a compression stocking.
15 5. A compression garment system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the
      first predetermined level of compression is in the range 5 to 22 mmHg.
   6. A compression garment system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the first
      predetermined level of compression is in the range 10 to 15 mmHg.
20
   7. A compression garment system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the
      outer surface of the inner garment has a low fabric-to-fabric coefficient of friction
      to ease application of the outer garment over the inner garment.
25 8. A compression garment as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the outer
      garment also includes a moisture absorbent material.
   9. A two-layer compression garment system including:
          i.   an inner fabric compression layer configured, in use, to apply a first
30             predetermined level of compression; and

                                              26
         ii.   two or more outer fabric compression layers, each configured, in use, to
               be applied over the inner fabric compression layer, each providing a
               different predetermined level of compression;
       such that the inner fabric compression layer and a selected one of the two or
 5     more outer fabric compression layers can be applied in order to achieve a
       desired cumulative level of compression.
   10. A two-layer compression garment system including:
          i.   an inner fabric compression layer configured, in use, to apply a first
10             predetermined level of compression; and
         ii.   an outer fabric compression layer selected from two or more outer fabric
               compression layers, each configured, in use, to be applied over the inner
               fabric compression layer, each providing a different predetermined level
               of compression;
15     such that the inner fabric compression layer and the selected outer fabric
       compression layer can be applied in order to achieve a desired cumulative level
       of compression.
20 11. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in claim 9 or 10 wherein the
       inner fabric compression layer is a shaped compression garment.
   12. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 11
       wherein each outer fabric compression layer is a shaped compression garment.
25
   13. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
       12, wherein each outer fabric compression layer includes:
          i.   a shaped fabric body;
         ii.   an opening extending over at least a part of the fabric body;

                                              27
         iii.  an elastic material connected at both sides of the opening such that, in
               use, the elastic material tends to draw the sides of the opening together;
               and
         iv.   a closure configured to close the opening.
 5
   14. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in claim 13, each outer
       fabric compression layer providing, in use, a first predetermined level of
       compression when the opening is closed and a second predetermined level of
       compression when the opening is open.
10
   15. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in claim 13 or 14 wherein
       the elastic material of each outer fabric compression layer is configured to
       contract so as to lie flat underneath the shaped fabric body when, in use, the
       opening is closed.
15
   16. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in any one of claims 13 to
       15 wherein a compression force provided by the garment system in use is
       graduated along the length of the shaped fabric body.
20 17. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
       16, wherein the first predetermined level of compression is in the range 5 to 22
       mmHg.
   18. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
25     17, wherein the cumulative level of compression achieved responsive to
       application of the inner fabric compression garment and a first one of the outer
       fabric compression layers is in the range 16 to 21 mmHg.
   19. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
30     18, wherein the cumulative level of compression achieved responsive to

                                             28
       application of the inner fabric compression garment and a second one of the
       further outer fabric compression garments is in the range 22 to 30 mmHg.
   20. A two-layer compression garment system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
 5     19, wherein the cumulative level of compression achieved responsive to
       application of the inner fabric compression garment and a third one of the outer
       fabric compression garment is in the range 34 to 36 mmHg.
10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
