1002050754
ABSTRACT
         A communication system includes an operating environment proximate a plurality
of elevator car locations.  Also included is at least one Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)
access point device connectable to a mobile device located within the operating
environment upon receipt of a BLE signal by the mobile device, the mobile device
permitting a single BLE access point device of the at least one BLE access point devices
to connect to the mobile device at a time, for requesting an elevator assignment from the
connected BLE access point device, the BLE access point devices each being a BLE
central communication      device  and the mobile device being         a BLE peripheral
communication device.

     3/4
                2cy
                    LLL.
I-.
           1.1W          CJ
    cv~  -                m

1002050754
   CONNECTION MANAGEMENT IN ELEVATOR COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
                                      AND METHOD
BACKGROUND
          [0001] Existing elevator systems typically require a user to step into a building
lobby and interact with a system kiosk or the like to submit an elevator call (e.g., hall call
or destination call). Unfortunately, significant wait times often result due to all patrons
using the system kiosk(s).
BRIEF SUMMARY
          [0002] Disclosed is a communication system including an operating environment
proximate a plurality of elevator car locations. Also included is at least one Bluetooth
Low Energy (BLE) access point device connectable to a mobile device located within the
operating environment upon receipt of a BLE signal by the mobile device, the mobile
device permitting a single BLE access point device of the at least one BLE access point
devices to connect to the mobile device at a time, for requesting an elevator assignment
from the connected BLE access point device, the BLE access point devices each being a
BLE central communication device and the mobile device being a BLE peripheral
communication device.
          [0003] Also disclosed is a method of communication in an elevator operating
environment. The method includes receiving a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) signal with
a mobile device upon entering an operating environment that is proximate a plurality of
elevator car locations. The method also includes allowing the mobile device to permit a
connection to a single BLE access point device upon receipt of the BLE signal to request
an elevator assignment from the BLE access point device, one of at least one BLE access
point devices that are each connectable to the mobile device.          The method further
includes advertising and functioning the mobile device as a BLE peripheral device with
data stored on the mobile device upon receipt of the signal, each BLE access point device
                                             1

1002050754
being a BLE central communication device. The method yet further includes writing a
request ID to the mobile device upon connection to the single connected BLE access
point device. The method also includes denying subsequent request ID write attempts
from BLE access point devices.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0004] The present disclosure is illustrated by way of example and not limited in
the accompanying figures in which like reference numerals indicate similar elements.
          [0005] FIG. 1 illustrates an elevator communication system in an example
embodiment;
          [0006] FIG. 2 illustrates a user environment of the elevator communication
system;
          [0007] FIG. 3 schematically represents the elevator communication system; and
          [0008] FIG. 4 is a flow chart illustrating a method associated with the elevator
communication system according to an aspect of the disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
          [0009] FIG. 1 depicts an elevator communication system 200 in an example
embodiment. The elevator communication system 200 includes an elevator system 203
installed at a building 202.    In some embodiments, the building 202 may be an office
building or a collection of office buildings that may or may not be physically located near
each other. The building 202 may include any number of floors. Persons entering the
building 202 may enter at a lobby floor, or any other desired floor, and may go to a
destination floor via one or more conveyance devices.
          [0010] The elevator system 203 may include one or more computing devices,
such as a controller 206. The controller 206 may be configured to control dispatching
                                               2

1002050754
operations for one or more elevator cars (e.g., elevator cars 204-1, 204-2) associated with
the elevator system 203. It is understood that the elevator system 203 may utilize more
than one controller 206, and that each controller may control a group of elevator cars
204-1 and 204-2.      Although two elevator cars 204-1 and 204-2 are shown in FIG. 1, it is
understood that any number of elevators cars may be used in the elevator system 203.
The elevator cars 204-1 and 204-2 may be located in the same hoistway or in different
hoistways so as to allow coordination amongst elevator cars 204-1 and 204-2 in different
elevator banks serving different floors.     It is understood that other components of the
elevator system 203 (e.g., drive, counterweight, safeties, etc.) are not depicted for ease of
illustration.
          [0011] Also shown in FIG. 1 is a mobile device 208. The mobile device 208 may
include a device that is carried by a person, such as a smart phone, PDA, tablet, etc. The
mobile device 208 may include wearable items, such as a smart watch, eyewear, etc. The
mobile device 208 may include a processor 250, memory 252 and a communication
module 254, as shown in FIG. 1. The processor 250 can be any type or combination of
computer processors, such as a microprocessor, microcontroller, digital signal processor,
application    specific   integrated circuit, programmable     logic device,    and/or field
programmable gate array. The memory 252 is an example of a non-transitory computer
readable storage medium tangibly embodied in the mobile device 208 including
executable instructions stored therein, for instance, as firmware.      The communication
module 254 may implement one or more communication protocols, but must support a
BLE peripheral role, as described in further detail herein.
          [0012] The controller 206 may include a processor 260, memory 262 and a
communication module 264, as shown in FIG. 1. The processor 260 can be any type or
combination of computer processors, such as a microprocessor, microcontroller, digital
signal processor, application specific integrated circuit, programmable logic device,
and/or field programmable gate array.         The memory 262 is an example of a non
transitory computer readable storage medium tangibly embodied in the controller 206
                                               3

1002050754
including executable instructions stored therein, for instance, as firmware.            The
communication module 264 may implement one or more communication protocols, but
must support BLE communication in a BLE central role, as described in further detail
herein.
          [0013] Referring now to FIGS. 2 and 3, an embodiment of the elevator
communication system 200 is illustrated according to further aspects of the disclosure. In
the illustrated embodiment, the mobile device 208 functions as a BLE peripheral device
and one or more devices of the elevator communication system 200 functions as a BLE
central device that initiates communication and interaction with the mobile device 208, as
will be appreciated from the disclosure herein.
          [0014] The above-described BLE peripheral device role of the mobile device 208
and the BLE central device(s) role of the elevator communication system 200 are
reversed from typical systems. The role reversal of devices in this elevator system is both
unique and a fundamental design advantage when deploying such a system in a public
environment.      If the mobile device 208 were in the central role it would take on the
responsibility of managing connection to the system. With the mobile device 208 unable
to intercommunicate, and mobile device placement in the lobby being uncontrollable and
random, the flow of communication would be chaotic with mobile devices likely all
connecting to the same BLE access point device, resulting in unnecessary communication
traffic and collisions. In the system 200 disclosed herein, connection and processing of
information is made from as many mobile devices as possible, as quickly as possible, via
the wireless communication Bluetooth low energy (BLE) with short connection durations
for each individual mobile device.
          [0015] In the illustrated embodiment, at least one, but typically multiple BLE
beacon devices 300 (also referred to herein as BLE wireless signal generating devices)
are disposed in the system operating environment. Specifically, the BLE beacon devices
300 are located proximate an elevator boarding area. The BLE beacon devices 300 are
deployed as separate devices in some embodiments for the purpose of enhancing the
                                             4

1002050754
ability of the mobile device 208 to detect the presence of the BLE-enabled elevator
communication system 200. The BLE beacon devices 300 emit a BLE signal 302 with a
BLE emitter 304 that BLE-enabled mobile devices, operating in the usual BLE central
mode initially can continuously search for, such as the mobile device 208 described
herein, to trigger the mobile device 208 to change their operational mode from BLE
central mode to BLE peripheral mode and enter a connection mode with the elevator
communication system 200. Upon receipt of the BLE signal 302, the mobile device 208
advertises its presence with an additional BLE signal that is detectable by one or more
nearby BLE access point devices 306 that are disposed in the system operating
environment. Specifically, the BLE access point devices 306 are located proximate the
elevator boarding area. The mobile device can also advertise its presence upon the user
opening an application on the mobile device 208, or with the application open the
advertising could be set to start only upon the user entering a request within the
application on the mobile device 208. The mobile device 208 is connectable to the BLE
beacon devices 300 and the BLE access point devices 306 when located proximate the
elevator boarding area. In some embodiments, the mobile device 208 is connectable to
the components when located within 100 feet, for example. It is to be appreciated that
this distance/range is an illustrative range and some embodiments will permit connection
with larger or smaller ranges.
          [0016] One or more BLE access point devices 306 start to connect to the mobile
devices advertising with a credential recognizable by the elevator communication system
200, as described herein. Only one BLE access point device 306 will complete the
connection to the mobile device 208as the mobile device 208 will indicate that it has
connected and prevent other connections from forming. The BLE access point device
306 may also be referred to as a bridge or a suitable alternative. One BLE access point
device 306 is capable of handling multiple connections and therefore multiple mobile
devices simultaneously. The BLE access point device 306 is part of, or is in operative
communication with, the controller 206. It is to be appreciated that the overall system
200 may include a plurality of BLE access point devices 306 spaced from each other to
                                               5

1002050754
facilitate operation of the system 200 over a desired distance range.               In some
embodiments, the BLE access point device 306 includes one or more BLE beacon device
300 integrated therein.
          [0017] The BLE access point device 306 includes a BLE module 310 that
receives the BLE signal 302 from the mobile device 208 to establish connection of the
mobile device 208 to the BLE access point device 306. Upon connection, the mobile
device 208 enters a request for an elevator assignment (i.e., elevator request, elevator call,
hall call, destination call, etc.) that is received by the BLE access point device 306. The
BLE access point device 306 communicates with the controller 206 in a wired or wireless
manner via at least one communication device 312 that is integrated in the BLE access
point device 306. A wired and wireless communication arrangement is illustrated for
reference, but it is to be appreciated that both are not required in some embodiments. In
particular,    communication      may     be   established  only   wirelessly  or wired   via
communication hardware component(s) 312.                The controller 206 responds with an
elevator assignment for the mobile device 208 user and that assignment is relayed to the
mobile device 208 by the BLE access point device 306. After receipt of the assignment,
the mobile device 208 is disconnected from the BLE access point device 306.
Disconnection may occur automatically by the BLE access point device 306 or may
require manual termination by the mobile device 208 user via input on the mobile device
208.
          [0018] The above-described embodiment of the method provides a single
connection (transaction) between the BLE access point device 306 and the mobile device,
but it is to be appreciated that the call (e.g., elevator request) and the assignment may be
provided over two separate connections. The two connection architecture is advantageous
in that the mobile user may be moving while making their elevator request.          The first
connection may be made through one BLE access point device 306 and they might walk
out of range of that first BLE access point device 306 prior to receiving their elevator
assignment.     In this architecture, after the mobile device 208 enters the request to the
                                                  6

1002050754
original BLE access point device 306 the BLE access point device 306 disconnects from
the mobile device 208 and the mobile device starts advertising again with a different
signature that it is awaiting an elevator assignment. The elevator communication system
200 sends elevator assignments to all BLE access point devices allowing the second BLE
access point device 306 that sees the waiting BLE advertisement to connect to and send
the elevator assignment to the waiting mobile device 208.
          [0019] In operation, the elevator communication system 200 provides users in the
operating environment with a seamless and interactive elevator request experience. As
shown in FIG. 2, a user simply enters the elevator boarding area with the mobile device
208 and one of the BLE beacon devices 300 triggers the mobile device 208 to enter into a
connection mode based on user configuration data previously stored on the mobile device
208. An application on the mobile device 208 stores a list of universal unique identifiers
(UUIDs) that are advertised by the BLE beacon device(s) 300. Recognizing one of the
advertised UUIDs gives the application context information about the current building
and floor. In some embodiments, based off this context and any user preferences stored
about desired floor and times of day or days of the week for travel, the application
informs the user it will be making a request and then makes a request for the floor on the
user's behalf if the response is in the affirmative. In some embodiments, the application
detects the floor and building context and makes a preprogramed request. In other words,
in some embodiments, the mobile device 208 is pre-commissioned with a digital
credential that enables it to communicate with specific BLE access point devices in a
specific building. The BLE access point device 306 will communicate over an encrypted
BLE channel to the mobile device 208 and authenticate the mobile device 208 based on
the credential. The digital credential may also include an access control payload that is
communicated along with the elevator request to the BLE access point device 306. The
BLE access point device 306 communicates the request and access control payload to the
elevator system that verifies with the access control system that the user with the access
control payload is authorized to travel to the requested floor. The specific call may be
based on a manual input by a user through an interactive application stored on the mobile
                                               7

1002050754
device 208 in some embodiments.         This may be done by physical contact between the
user and an interactive surface (e.g., touch screen) of the mobile device 208 or through
voice prompt commands. Alternatively, a user may input predetermined settings into the
mobile device 208 that represent a floor destination, for example. This is particularly
useful for individuals that often utilize the elevator system to travel to a single floor on a
regular basis. Upon determination of an elevator assignment by the controller 206, the
BLE access point device 306 relays the assignment to the mobile device 208 and it is
displayed to the user. The assignment may also be displayed in alternative manners, such
as on a watch or a wall display, for example. Traditional elevator systems do not assign
users to specific elevators. For this case the message back to the user is a confirmation
that their request has been accepted.
          [0020] Advantageously, the elevator communication system 200 allows a user to
step into an elevator boarding area (e.g., lobby) and receive an elevator assignment
without interacting with anything other than their mobile device 208 and even then only
doing so in a minimalistic fashion. Additionally, backups at system kiosks are reduced,
thereby enabling better traffic flow to elevators. Use of the mobile device 208 as a BLE
peripheral device, rather than a BLE central device, results in a better flow of
communication between the mobile devices and the communication system.
          [0021] Referring to FIG. 4, the system 200 and method associated therewith are
illustrated with a flow diagram. The flow diagram illustrates the method from the mobile
device's perspective.      The mobile device 208 scans for the BLE signal 302, as
represented with 400. If within a predetermined range of the BLE beacon device 300, the
BLE signal 302 prompts the mobile device 208 to advertise (i.e., broadcast) as a BLE
peripheral, as represented with 402. State 402 can also be entered if the user makes a
manual request from their mobile device.        The advertisement seeks connection with a
BLE access point device 306 with an initialization universal unique identifier (UUID). A
connection is established between the mobile device 208 and the BLE access point device
306 and an elevator call is made 404.             The connection may be delayed by a
                                               8

1002050754
predetermined time period to prevent additional automatic calls, thereby avoiding
lowering the efficiency of the system. Once the elevator call is received by the BLE
access point device 306, the connection between the mobile device 208 and the BLE
access point device 306 is terminated, but the BLE access point device 306, and any other
BLE access point device 306 of the system 200, stores the UUID therein. The BLE
access point device 306 can continue to serve other mobile devices that are connected at
the same point in time. The mobile device 208 advertises its UUID to seek connection to
one of the BLE access point devices of the system 406. Once the system has processed
the request associated with the UUID, re-connection is established with the proper mobile
device and the elevator assignment is written to the mobile device 408. Upon receipt of
the elevator assignment, the mobile device is disconnected from the BLE access point
device.
          [0022] Since the mobile device 208 is advertising as a BLE peripheral in a
location that is likely to have overlapping BLE central devices, such as multiple BLE
access point devices, the issue of rapid connections by two or more central devices to the
mobile devices is managed with the embodiments described herein. If such an issue was
not addressed, the central devices may bombard the mobile device 208 with connections
and cause phantom requests for elevators to occur in the system, adding unnecessary
overhead in multiple locations in the system. Also, connection management avoids
potentially overwhelming the operating system of the mobile device 208 itself.
          [0023] The system 200 only allows connection between a single BLE access
point device to each mobile device at a time. As described above, the mobile device 208
advertises a peripheral device with a UUID. Once connection with a BLE access point
device 206 is established, a request ID is written to the mobile device 208. Once the
mobile device 208 has a request ID written to memory stored thereon by the single
connected BLE access point device, any subsequent request ID write attempts are denied
by the mobile device 208. This may be done in any suitable manner. For example, the
mobile device may employ BLE Generic Attribute Profile (GATT) errors to deny the
                                             9

1002050754
write of the characteristic on any subsequent connection that occurs before the request ID
characteristic value was advertised as a new service UUID.       Although other techniques
may be employed, BLE GATT errors may be employed due to the fact that BLE devices
must include at least a basic GATT server that can respond to client requests, even if only
to return an error response.
          [0024] Advantageously, preventing elevator request duplication allows the system
to operate more efficiently and in a manner that does not lead to additional system
overhead or errors that frustrate users.
          [0025] Embodiments may be implemented using one or more technologies. In
some embodiments, an apparatus or system may include one or more processors, and
memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the
apparatus or system to perform one or more methodological acts as described herein.
Various mechanical components known to those of skill in the art may be used in some
embodiments.
          [0026] Embodiments may be implemented as one or more apparatuses, systems,
and/or methods.      In some embodiments, instructions may be stored on one or more
computer program products or computer-readable media, such as a transitory and/or non
transitory computer-readable medium. The instructions, when executed, may cause an
entity (e.g., a processor, apparatus or system) to perform one or more methodological acts
as described herein.
          [0027] While the disclosure has been described in detail in connection with only a
limited number of embodiments, it should be readily understood that the disclosure is not
limited to such disclosed embodiments.         Rather, the disclosure can be modified to
incorporate     any   number    of variations,   alterations, substitutions   or equivalent
arrangements not heretofore described, but which are commensurate with the scope of the
disclosure.    Additionally, while various embodiments have been described, it is to be
understood that aspects of the disclosure may include only some of the described
                                              10

1002050754
embodiments. Accordingly, the disclosure is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing
description, but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.
                                              11

1002050754
What is claimed is:
          1.     A communication system comprising:
         an operating environment proximate a plurality of elevator car locations; and
         at least one Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) access point device connectable to a
mobile device located within the operating environment upon receipt of a BLE signal by
the mobile device, the mobile device permitting a single BLE access point device of the
at least one BLE access point devices to connect to the mobile device at a time, for
requesting an elevator assignment from the connected BLE access point device, the BLE
access point devices each being a BLE central communication device and the mobile
device being a BLE peripheral communication device.
         2.      The communication system of claim 1, wherein the mobile device has a
request ID written to memory stored thereon by the single connected BLE access point
device, and any subsequent request ID write attempts are denied by the mobile device
upon receipt from at least one BLE access point device.
         3.      The communication system of claim 2, wherein BLE GATT errors are
employed by the mobile device to deny any subsequent request ID write attempts from at
least one BLE access point device.
         4.      The communication system of claim 1, further comprising a controller in
operative communication with the at least one BLE access point device to determine the
elevator assignment to be communicated to the mobile device.
         5.      The communication system of claim 1, further comprising a wireless
signal generating device emitting the BLE signal to be received by a mobile device
located within the operating environment.
         6.      The communication system of claim 5, wherein the wireless signal
generating device is integrated within at least one BLE access point device.
                                             12

1002050754
         7.      The communication system of claim 5, wherein the wireless signal
generating device is one of a plurality of wireless signal generating devices located
within the operating environment, the wireless signal generating devices physically
separated from at least one BLE access point device.
          8.     A method of communication in an elevator operating environment
comprising:
         receiving a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) signal with a mobile device upon
entering an operating environment that is proximate a plurality of elevator car locations;
         allowing the mobile device to permit a connection to a single BLE access point
device upon receipt of the BLE signal to request an elevator assignment from the BLE
access point device, one of at least one BLE access point devices that are each
connectable to the mobile device;
         advertising and functioning the mobile device as a BLE peripheral device with
data stored on the mobile device upon receipt of the signal, each BLE access point device
being a BLE central communication device;
         writing a request ID to the mobile device upon connection to the single connected
BLE access point device; and
         denying subsequent request ID write attempts from BLE access point devices.
         9.      The method of claim 8, wherein BLE GATT errors are employed by the
mobile device to deny any subsequent request ID write attempts from BLE access point
devices.
          10.    The method of claim 8, further comprising a user initiating an elevator call
with the mobile device, wherein initiation of the elevator call allows a connection of the
mobile device and one of the BLE access point devices.
                                             13

1002050754
          11.   The method of claim 8, further comprising a user initiating an elevator call
with the mobile device upon connection to the BLE access point device.
          12.   The method of claim 10, wherein the elevator call is a hall call.
          13.   The method of claim 10, wherein the elevator call is a destination call.
          14.   The method of claim 10, wherein the user initiates the elevator call by
interacting with the mobile device.
          15.   The method of claim 10, wherein the user initiates the elevator call by
inputting predetermined settings into the mobile device.
          16.   The method of claim 8, further comprising communicating between the
BLE access point device and a controller to determine the elevator assignment.
          17.   The method of claim 8, wherein the connection between the mobile device
and the BLE access point device is established after a predetermined time period.
                                            14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
