                                        ABSTRACT
A broad spectrum, synergistic fungicidal composition for glueline preservation of a
glued wood product comprising as active ingredients: (A) triadimefon, and (B)
cyproconazole characterised in that the weight ratio of (A) : (B) is from 20:1 to 6:1, the
composition being further characterised in that it is formulated to be applied wherein
the application rate for (A) is from 225 gai/m 3 to 3,900 gai/m 3 and the application rate
for (B) is from 10 gai/m 3 to 643 gai/m3 , provided the total application rate does not
exceed 4,500 gai/m 3 , the composition being further characterised in that it is not a
fortified glue mixture and is formulated as a glue additive.

   SYNERGISTIC FUNGICIDAL COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF USE
   This application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
   2015230837, which in turn is a divisional from Australian patent application
 5 2011271747, of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by
   reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   This invention relates to a synergistic fungicidal composition to its method of
10 preparation, to its method of use and to products made therefrom.      In particular, the
   invention relates to a wood preservative for glued wood products, and to its use in a
   method for the preservation of a glued wood product.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15 Many plantation softwood species, generally members of the Pinaceae family, and
   certain hardwoods lack natural durability and are subject to rapid degradation by a
   host of insects and      microorganisms that play a vital role in lignocellulosic
   mineralization and nutrient recycling processes in nature. Thus it is common practice
   to protect timber and other wood products using insecticides and fungicides.
20
   The wood degrading microflora include bacteria and a large number of fungi of which
   the latter are the main cause of sapstain, mould and decay.         Sapstain fungi and
   moulds produce unsightly superficial effects whereas decay fungi (also called rot
   fungi) severely weaken or completely break down wood.
25
   White rot fungi are so called because they efficiently degrade all three principal wood
   cell wall biopolymers cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin, eventually producing a
   bleaching effect.     Brown rot fungi are capable of utilising the cellulose and
   hem icellulose
30
                                              1

components, but only modifying the lignin component slightly, resulting in a darkening
effect. Dry rot fungi are essentially brown rot fungi that can transport water into wood and
decompose it slowly. A further category, the soft rot fungi, utilise cellulose and
hemicellulose like brown rot fungi but their growth is restricted to inside the woody cell wall
and the resulting damage becomes evident more slowly than with other decay fungi.
Further information on wood decay fungi and their modes of action can be found in
F. W. M. R. Schwarze "Wood decay under the microscope", 2007, Fungal Biology Reviews
doi:10.1016/j.fbr.2007.09.001.
Traditional preservation systems include inorganic preservatives such as copper chrome
arsenic, sodium octaborate and alkaline copper quaternary ("ACQ") that are introduced
into timber in an aqueous medium, or carbon-based preservatives delivered in a non
aqueous medium termed a light organic solvent preservative ("LOSP"). These approaches
achieve moderate levels of preservative penetration and result in generally effective
protection but are expensive because they use vacuum and pressure to a greater or lesser
extent, and must be performed in a separate step to other wood processing operations,
thus incurring additional cost. Inorganic preservatives are loosing favour because of
toxicity issues and the accompanying preservation methods require special care to avoid
problems with dimensional stability. Persistent solvent residue problems characterise
LOSP systems.
In recent years carbon-based preservatives and boron compounds have been
incorporated into the glues and resins used to make engineered wood products, such as
plywood and laminated veneer lumber, and reconstituted wood products such as particle
board, oriented strand board and the like. While this system may be integrated easily into
veneer and fibre lay up operations, it does require the preservative to be stable under
extreme conditions such as heat (up to 2500C), pressure and/or high pH (9-13) commonly
encountered during layup and hot pressing of the wood product.
Glueline addition of biocides presents other challenges. The addition must not significantly
change the working properties of the resin (viscosity, dynamic surface tension, etc) that
affect pumping, curtain coating onto veneers or mixing with fibres, as well as other
                                                2

properties including wet bond strength (tack), curing rate and the like. Most importantly,
the addition must not reduce the bond strength of the final product. It is therefore
imperative to add the least possible amount of biocide to the adhesive that will prevent
decay during the service life of the glued wood product.
Commercially significant decay fungi are dominated by the brown and white rots, some of
which are susceptible to triazole fungicides such as tebuconazole and propiconazole.
Tebuconazole and propiconazole are widely used in LOSP processes. However,
unworkably high addition rates are required to achieve efficacy when tebuconazole and/or
propiconazole are applied to the glues and resins used to make engineered and
reconstituted wood products.
The effectiveness of a wood preservative in the field is limited by any point of weakness
against individual fungal species. Accordingly, there is a need with respect to glueline
application to increase triazole addition rates by some means, or in some other way
overcome the weaknesses of triazole fungicides against certain fungi that can be
problematic with glued wood containing products. It is also desirable to increase the
efficacy against dry rots and soft rots. At the same time, health, safety and environment
considerations are among factors driving a reduction in biocide concentrations in
preservative-treated wood products.
The triazoles under consideration in this disclosure are summarised in Table 1.
Triadimenol is the carbonyl reduced form of triadimefon. Triadimefon and triadimenol have
similar physical properties apart from melting point and vapour pressure, and contain one
and two chiral carbons, respectively. Cyproconazole has similar physical properties to
tebuconazole and propiconazole in most respects but differs in the octanol-water partition
coefficient (Kow) and air-water distribution coefficient (Henry's law constant). These
azoles contain two, one and two chiral carbons, respectively (Table 1). All of the listed
triazoles are therefore present as various stereoisomeric mixtures.
                                                3

The formulation types available for agricultural use (Pesticide Manual, 15th Edition, 2009)
reflect in large part the ease of manufacture which is based on the different physical
properties of the triazoles, their stability in different formulation types, and the crops and
disease control profiles of these active ingredients. Accordingly triadimefon is formulated
as powders, granule, paste or emulsifiable concentrate; triadimenol is formulated in a wide
range including powders, granule, emulsions, suspensions, and concentrates.
Cyproconazole is formulated as a concentrate, solution or granule; tebuconazole as a very
wide range including powders, granule, emulsions, gel, suspensions, and concentrates.
Propiconazole, which as a technical is a liquid at ambient temperature, is formulated as an
emulsion or gel.
                                                    4

                                                         U)                                                                   0
                                   (a          co                                                     C       oC
                                         L)                                                           U)_       )U           0(    ..
            a)    )                                               CL                    0i
                                                                                        ..
                                   d*       ~                   E                                      E0                     bc
                                                                                                               >,              f
                                               0 - 0-        ca       n cz
        M                          04                                   4                              _1
                                                                                                       >-
                     c
                              /0 e Z
                                                                    -           L9       -                 a) a
                                                                                                                       0O
                                                                                                                         ~    0
        0                                      0~U 0u)            0E             0~               0)5
                                        0-      = oC      o                                                       -    J        z c
                                                                          c
                                        "t     a)    _)   C'            O. . 0 c0.
               0..        0e                         CDCV> i            0CO )                         C)(.       00       ')        Fn~
                                               U)                                                                             U
                                                U)                                                        0          Ci
                                                                                         0 o~                       No                       VJ7
                                                                       co                0                           0           ,C
                                         CD     U)
                          C                                            E
                          o~~~                                                     00)-0                                 )
                  I0               o           0   -       O                          0 '-EZ
                                   M      000             C            0      -    x        cD         0~            6 c
        a)                                                                  C6      -   ~m              A
                                                                                                      C\J      06
                                                                                                               O       V
                                                                                                                       VO
                                                                                                                                     -+
0o                                          Q               -           O~-                                     0
0
 0                                                                                                                             e
4-                                                                                                                                  0)
w0                 tu                                            0                       0
                    co W 0-.       (D       ~U)                        w a)
                                                                                   0                       0
                                                                                                              L        )       3
                                                          0 Dj                                                                           C
                0                              a)                      E                   -J
                                                              I-            _-     T- E
                                                                                   X         0)       0     0)
                      o)                                                                                       a             -a)(
         0-                              "-    -30  .0                       7   (                    c         D-i
 C:      >1                                                           CO                       oO                             +,o
 as                  u             0      \                                  0     N       m          't
                      a)                                                         0                                                 CD
        En                                                                                                           0
             a)                               0
                                                                            cI                  ,t X C) 0
                        t 0  ~     0       O)      V                            0       C)~                    0~ CDL(       IL(
                    7E)                                                     NU)
                                                                                                                                        U  OC
 a)                    6_10
                                   Co          co(         5_
             a)C~                                U))                                             -1c         -                     -r
 U)                                         00 3          o                 0                       CY                         V0
               U)                                                     c                                              0
                0R           _6                 U) o                             C)      (0                          0"      .CC
-     E                             b     m     0-              o      0                         Cf-'C 0
 a)                                            Oo                                                CO      A LC00     E        co ) ) 9
  L
                                                                                   __z
 a)
             N                                                                                                                0
(D                O=                          9"a                                       C)             0      0
                               _     E0                                                  0)                   aD b )       a         Z
                                         .~    U)    La)                           E                                         -
    '    0                         (D           U             )    cz                                  02
 a)                                            a)-                    a
                            E3                       sj   0.
                                                           a) RE
                                                                       E     ~       )
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                         )
 U)     0~
H-      0      C1                  C      ~ .             C,                                          CO     (Z       ce)      (00 0LO

The principal mode of action of triazole fungicides is inhibition of the biosynthesis of
ergosterol, the major sterol found in fungal membranes. Binding of the triazole ring to
cytochrome P450 sterol 14a-demethylase (CYP51) leads to an accumulation of 14a
methyl diols resulting in lethal disruption of fungal membrane integrity. Cytochrome P450
sterol 14a-demethylase is widely distributed among biological kingdoms and is responsible
for 14a-demethylation of sterols in the biosynthesis of cholesterol in mammals, and in
phytosterol and gibberellin biosynthesis in plants.
Selective inhibition of CYP51 is a key requirement for a triazole to be acceptable for timber
preservation, agriculture and medicine. As an indication of relative selectivity of triazoles,
the inhibitory potencies against human and yeast CYP51, expressed as a ratio of IC50
values (human/yeast) are: triadimefon 77, triadimenol 113, cyproconazole 228,
tebuconazole 10, propiconazole 55 (E. R. Trosken, M. Adamska, M. Arand, J. A. Zarn, C.
Patten, W. Volkel, and W. K Lutz "Comparison of lanosterol-14a-demethylase (CYP51) of
human and Candida albicans for inhibition by different antifungal azoles", 2006, Toxicology
228, 24-32), i.e. triadimefon, triadimenol and propiconazole are moderately selective for
the fungal enzyme, cyproconazole is highly selective, and tebuconazole very non
selective.
 It is known that in many species of fungi, plants and mammals, and in soil, triadimefon is
 reduced to triadimenol in what is termed an "activation" process, i.e. for many fungal
species triadimenol is the fungicidally active metabolite, and that the sensitivity of
 individual fungal species to triadimefon is related to the extent of activation. More
 particularly, the sensitivity of a fungal species to triadimefon (and triadimenol) is related to
 extent of conversion, the stereochemistry of the triadimefon reduction reaction, i.e. which
 enantiomers are formed and in what relative proportions, and the sensitivity of the fungal
 species in question to each of the individual triadimenol enantiomers formed (see for
 example, M. Gasztonyi "The diastereomeric ratio in the triadimenol produced by fungal
 metabolism of triadimefon, and its role in fungicidal selectivity", 1981, Pesticide Science
 12, 433-438, and A. H. B. Deas, G. A. Carter, T. Clark, D. R. Clifford and C. S. James "The
 enantiomeric composition of triadimenol produced during metabolism of triadimefon by
fungi : ll. Relationship with sensitivity to triadimefon" 1986, Pesticide Biochemistry and
                                                  6

Physiology 26, 10-21). It is well known that 1S,2R triadimenol is generally the most
fungicidally active enantiomer.
Knowledge of the sensitivity of individual fungal species to triadimefon (and triadimenol)
was most comprehensively disclosed by Deas et aL (cited above) who analysed the
stereospecific metabolism of triadimefon and the sensitivity to each of the four triadimenol
metabolites of fifteen fungal species, predominantly plant pathogens (i.e. cellulolytic) and
also including two white rot decay organisms (Coriolus versicolor, now commonly known
as Trametes versicolor, and Chondrostereum purpureum), and a highly cellulolytic mould
active on wood (Trichoderma viride). The fungi were divided broadly into three categories
to explain the sensitivity of different fungal species to triadimefon. In one category, which
 included Coriolus versicolor and Chondrostereum purpureum, fungi were sensitive to both
triadimefon and triadimenol, and the triadimefon sensitivity appeared to be based on a
 high rate of triadimefon conversion and the 1S,2R enantiomer being the major contributor
to the fungicidal activity among the triadimenol metabolites produced. In a further
 category, which included Trichoderma viride, fungi were insensitive to triadimefon and
triadimenol, and converted triadimefon to forms of triadimenol dominated by enantiomers
that the fungi were not sensitive to. In a still further category fungi were comparatively
 insensitive to triadimefon but partially sensitive to triadimenol. The latter fungi displayed
 either a high extent of triadimefon conversion but low sensitivity to the particular
triadimenol enantiomers produced, or a low extent of conversion even though very
 sensitive to the enantiomers produced, both scenarios combining to produce the net effect
 of comparative insensitivity to triadimefon. Deas et al. also found no evidence of
 antagonism or synergy among the various triadimenol enantiomers.
 The Pesticide Manual discloses that technical grade triadimenol comprises 70% A and
 30% B. Deas et al (cited above) disclose a different enantiomeric composition (1R,2S:
 1S,2R : 1R,2R : 1S2S = 21 : 21 : 29: 29. Notwithstanding this difference, and considering
 the foregoing discussion, it should be noted that technical grade triadimenol comprises
 about 21-35% of the generally highly potent 1S,2R enantiomer.
                                                  7

In accordance with the foregoing discussion it has been found that triadimenol controls a
much broader spectrum of agricultural fungal pathogens and consequently is more widely
used than triadimefon. Triadimenol also controls a number of wood degrading fungi at
significantly lower concentrations than triadimefon. However, the inhibitory concentration
of either active ingredient acting alone varies up to 50-fold or more when tested against a
range of organisms (see, for example, EP 0254857). The minimum concentrations of
active ingredients required for effective timber preservation are determined by the
organisms that are least sensitive to the preservative. Thus the minimum effective dose
for preservation in service is dictated by those species most resistant to a particular active
ingredient.
As noted above any single active ingredient will have less effectiveness against certain
fungal species. This is counteracted by combining two (or more) active ingredients to
provide more effective control of fungal growth at cost effective doses against a broad
spectrum of different fungal organisms.
All references, including any patents or patent applications cited in this specification are
hereby incorporated by reference. The applicant makes no admission that any reference
constitutes prior art - they are merely assertions by their authors and the applicant
reserves the right to contest the accuracy, pertinence and domain of the cited documents.
None of the documents or references constitutes an admission that they form part of the
common general knowledge in NZ or in any other country.
Applicants disclose that, surprisingly, triadimenol displays an antagonistic interaction with
cyproconazole with respect to fungicidal activity, whereas triadimefon displays a
synergistic interaction with cyproconazole. This is entirely unexpected and surprising
when it is considered that in most if not all cases where triadimefon is fungicidal against a
particular fungal species, it is actually triadimenol, the metabolite of triadimefon, that is
recognised as being the fungicidally active factor, not triadimefon itself. The fact that
triadimenol is the active factor is recognised in the art. It is therefore totally unanticipated
that triadimefon will have a synergistic interaction with cyproconazole when triadimenol,
                                                 8

the active metabolite of triadimefon, itself displays an antagonistic interaction with
cyproconazole.
The synergy observed with triadimefon and cyproconazole is all the more surprising when
it is seen that triadimefon acting alone is less efficacious than triadimenol acting alone.
The net effect of this research is the enablement of improved protection of wood and glued
wood products against a broad range of decay fungi and a lowering of rates of fungicidal
addition to achieve such control.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
It is an object of the invention to provide an improved composition and/or preparative
method thereof and/or use thereof which will obviate or minimize one or more of the
previously mentioned disadvantages, or provide one or more of the previously mentioned
desirable features, or which will at least provide the public with a useful choice.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In a broad aspect the invention is directed to a broad spectrum, synergistic fungicidal
composition characterised in that the composition comprises a synergistically effective
amount of the active ingredients (A) triadimefon and (B) cyproconazole.
Preferably, the broad spectrum, synergistic fungicidal composition is used as a glueline
preservative for glued wood products characterised in that the composition comprises a
synergistically effective amount of the active ingredients (A) triadimefon and (B)
cyproconazole
                                                9

In one aspect the invention resides in a broad spectrum, synergistic fungicidal
composition for glueline preservation as a glued wood product comprising as active
ingredients: (A) triadimefon, and (B) cyproconazole characterised in that the weight
ratio of (A):(B) is from 20:1 to 6:1, the composition being further characterised in that
it is formulated to be applied wherein the application rate for (A) is from 225 gai/m 3 to
3,900 gai/m 3 and the application rate for (B) is from 10 gai/m 3 to 643 gai/m 3 , provided
the total application rate does not exceed 4,500 gai/m 3 , the composition being further
characterised in that it is not a fortified glue mixture and is formulated as a glue
additive.
The broad spectrum, synergistic fungicidal composition is particularly efficacious
when used as a glueline preservative. The synergy observed between triadimefon
and cyproconazole is even more unexpected in this application because other
triazoles are recognised as being ineffective in a glueline environment unless they are
delivered at unworkable and uneconomically high levels or at levels that detrimentally
compromise the integrity of the glue.
The surprising synergy between the active ingredients (A) triadimefon and (B)
cyproconazole allows the effective rates of fungicide required to be lowered producing
a number of improved benefits. The synergistic composition applied to the glueline of
engineered wood products, for example, is surprisingly much more effective than
commercially acceptable LOSP treatments. Furthermore the synergistic composition
produces effective control of a broader range of fungal species at reduced cost than
existing preservative treatments. A reduction in application rates minimises
perturbation of glue working properties and bond strength and lowers environmental
and occupational health and safety concerns associated with treatment.
In one broad aspect this invention provides synergistic fungicidal compositions
suitable for use as a glueline preservative comprising (A) triadimefon and (B)
cyproconazole as active ingredients.
In a further broad aspect this invention provides methods of formulating synergistic
fungicidal compositions for use in a glueline environment.
In a further broad aspect this invention provides a method for the preservation of
glued wood products, which comprises applying fungicidally effective amounts of the
broad
                                               10

spectrum, synergistic fungicidal composition to the glue component of glued wood
products.
In a yet further broad aspect the broad spectrum, synergistic fungicidal composition may
be applied as an optional additional surface treatment for a glued wood product either
simultaneously or sequentially.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
This invention relates generally to combinations of fungicidal active ingredients and more
particularly to broad spectrum, synergistic compositions of fungicidal active ingredients
intended to provide more effective and broader control of decay microorganisms in wood
products, and in particular, in glued wood products.
 Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs.
The term "fungicidal" encompasses all effects on fungi including but not limited to the
destruction or killing of fungi, a defined logarithmic reduction, a partial or complete
 suppression or inhibition of growth, inhibition of germination, and the like. The term
 "fungicidally effective amount" indicates the quantity or application rate of a fungicidal
 composition or of a fungicidal active ingredient which is capable of producing any one or
 more such effects.
 The term "glue" is used as a general term for any product used in the manufacture of wood
 products resulting in permanent or semi-permanent adhesion, bonding, chemical bonding,
 linkage, attachment, etc, of wood or wood derived components such as sawn timber,
 veneers, flakes, fibres, and the like. "Glue" includes terms such as adhesive, resin,
 tackifier, glue mix, glue mixture, glue component, and the like, and these terms may be
 used interchangeably in this disclosure. The introduction of a wood preservative to the
                                                11

glue component of a glued wood product is commonly referred to as a "glueline" treatment,
and this term may be used whether the glue is present in a defined zone such as a veneer
interface, or the glue is more widely distributed throughout the product as it is in a
reconstituted wood product such as oriented strand board. Furthermore, a glueline
preservative may also be introduced into the glueline by spraying or misting the
preservative directly on to veneers, chips, flakes, etc prior to or during the layup operation.
The preservative remains subject to potential chemical and/or thermal decomposition
effects in the presence of the glue component during subsequent manufacturing
processes.
The term "synergistic" refers to a particular phenomenon that occurs when the observed
fungicidal effect of a mixture of active ingredients is unexpectedly greater than might be
expected from the sum of the observed fungicidal effects of the active ingredients
administered separately. Synergy may be calculated in various ways, generally based on
fungicide concentrations that produce a defined end point in measured fungal growth, or in
measured or otherwise evaluated effects resulting from the fungal growth. Examples of
such measurements or evaluated effects include colony diameter, percentage germination,
weight loss of a piece of infected wood, softening or weakening of a piece of infected
wood, and estimations of fungal infection based on coverage and density of fungal growth.
Any of these and other parameters can be enumerated using an instrument and/or
evaluated manually or visually and assigned to linear or non-linear rating scales.
 Methods that may be used to calculate synergy include those described by Y. Levy, M.
 Benderly, Y. Cohen, U. Gisi, and D. Bassand ("The Joint Action of Fungicides in Mixtures:
 Comparison of Two Methods for Synergy Calculation", 1986, Bulletin OEPP, 16, 651-657),
 by F. C. Kull, P. C. Eisman, H. D. Sylwestrowicz, and R. L. Mayer ("Mixtures of Quaternary
 Ammonium Compounds and Long-chain Fatty Acids as Antifungal Agents", 1961, Applied
 Microbiology, 9, 538-541), and by R. S. Colby ("Calculating Synergistic and Antagonistic
 Responses of Herbicide Combinations", 1967, Weeds 15, 20-22).
 In contrast an "antagonistic" effect refers to the situation whereby two or more components
 produce a combined effect which is less than the sum of their individual parts.
                                                 12

Surprisingly, we have found that a fungicidal composition comprising as active ingredients
triadimefon and cyproconazole in weight ratios from 20 : 1 to 6 : 1, and more preferably,
from 15:1 to 6:1, yields synergistic fungicidal activity against wood degrading fungi, i.e. the
fungicidal effects and/or the resulting effects on glued wood products by the combinations
of active ingredients are unexpectedly greater than the expected effects based on the
effects of the individual active ingredients administered separately. The effective
application rates required can be lowered as a result of the synergy making the resulting
products and protection systems for timber and wood products more economical, and
 minimising or eliminating one or more of the previously mentioned problems.
The synergistic fungicidal composition comprising triadimefon and cyproconazole are used
to control a broad range of decay organisms including those causing white rot, brown rot,
dry rot and soft rot.,
 Examples of fungi active on wood include but are not limited to ascomycetes,
 basidiomycetes and deuteromycetes. The brown rots include Antrodia xantha, Antrodia
vaillanti, Coniophora olivacea, Coniophora puteana, Fomitopsis ilacino-gilva,
Gloeophyllum abietinum, Gloeophyllum odoratum, Gloeophyllum sepiarium, Gloeophyllum
trabeum, Lentinus lepideus, Neolentinus lepideus, Paxillus panuoides, Polyporus
verecundus, Poria monticola, Poria placenta, Poria vaillanti, Poria vaporaria, Postia
placenta, and Tyromyces palustris. The white rots include Ceriporiopsis subvermispora,
Coriolus versicolor, Donkioporia expansa, Irpex lacteus, Lentinus edodes, Lopharia
crassa, Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Pleurotus ostreatus, Perenniporia tephropora,
Pycnoporus coccineus, Stereum hirsutum, and Trametes versicolor. The dry rot fungi
 include Serpula himantioides, Serpula lacrymans, Cephalosporium sp. and Meruliporia
incrassate. The fungi that cause soft rots include Acremonium sp., Alternaria sp.,
Chaetomium alba-arenulum, Chaetomium globosum, Glenospora graphii, Humicola
grisea, Petriella setifera and Trichurus spiralis.
According to the invention, synergistic combinations of triadimefon and cyproconazole may
 be found when the relative amounts of triadimefon and cyproconazole expressed as a ratio
                                                13

triadimefon:cyproconazole are present within the range from about 20:1 to about 6:1
parts by weight. The composition is further characterised in that it is formulated to be
applied when the application rate for triadimefon is from 225 gai/m 3 to 3,900 gai/m 3
and the application rate for cyproconazole is from 10 gai/m 3 to 643 gai/m 3 provided
that the total application rate does not exceed 4,500 gai/m 3 , the composition being
further characterised in that it is not a fortified mixture and is formulated as a glue
additive. More preferably triadimefon and cyproconazole are present in a ratio from
about 15:1 to about 6:1 parts by weight.
The composition may comprise 0.1% to 60% triadimefon and 0.1% to about 8.6%
cyproconazole on a weight/weight basis or a weight/volume basis. The percentages
of active ingredients in the composition will depend mainly on the formulation type,
the nature and quantities of the glue system relative to the wood component, veneer
thicknesses, wood strand dimensions, etc, blending or mixing equipment and
processes, as well as the identity and quantities of other glueline additives such as
waxes etc, that may be used for the particular glued wood products to which the
composition is to be applied. An important consideration is the ease with which the
composition can be dispensed accurately into the glue mixture.
This invention provides methods of formulating synergistic fungicidal compositions
adapted specifically for use in a glueline environment.
The fungicidal composition is characterised in being readily dispersed into the glue
component or the glueline environment during manufacture of glued wood products,
or dispersed within the flakes, strands, fibres, etc, of reconstituted wood products.
The dispersibility of the composition is in turn determined by the formulation type and
the nature of the solvent base for the composition, as well as the presence of
surfactants and other dispersal aids, as is known in the art.
Formulation types and methods of manufacture developed for crop protection
purposes are generally used for preservatives for timber, wood and other
biodegradable products. These are described, for example, in "Chemistry and
Technology of Agrochemical Formulations", 1998, D. A. Knowles (editor), Kluwer
Academic Publishers, "Pesticide Formulation and Adjuvant Technology", 1966, C. L.
Foy (editor), CRC Press, and "Formulation Technology: Emulsions, Suspensions,
Solid Forms", 2001, H. Mollet and A. Grubenmann, Wiley-VCH.
                                                14

Advantageously, the formulation is a liquid thus minimising exposure of users to the
hazards of powders and dusts. When needed for use with dry glue components, the
formulation is a dry mixture, preferably a dust free formulation. Suitable formulation types
for the fungicidal composition include, but are not limited to, a powder, a granule, a
concentrate, a gel, a solution, an emulsion, a dispersion, a suspension, or a controlled
release form including a microcapsule. Preferred formulation types are a suspension
concentrate, an emulsion, a granule and a powder.
In addition to triadimefon and cyproconazole, the fungicidal composition may contain 0.1%
to 99% of customary formulation additives. Customary formulation additives and their
functions are described in the previously mentioned publications. Such additives may
include water, suitable surfactants, dispersants, emulsifiers, penetrants, spreaders, wetting
agents, soaps, carriers, oils, solvents, diluents, inert components, conditioning agents,
colloids, suspending agents, thickeners, thixotropic agents, polymers, emollients, acids,
bases, salts, organic and inorganic solid matrices of various kinds, preservatives, anti
foam agents, anti-freeze agents, anti-caking agents, lubricants, stickers, binders,
complexing agents, chelating agents, crystallization inhibitors, dyes, activators, and the
like.
Certain additives are known to increase the efficacy of fungicidal active ingredients for
wood preservation, for example compounds that assist in the movement of active
ingredients into the wood component at any stage during and after the manufacturing
process. Such compounds include but are not limited to surfactants, chelating agents and
various solvent modifiers including aprotic solvents. Suitable aprotic solvents comprise
cyclic ethers including 1,4-dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydropyran and the like, short
chain aliphatic ethers, unsaturated ethers such as mesityl oxide, alkyl aryl ethers such as
acetophenone, diaryl ethers, glycol ethers, and alkylene glycol ethers, ketones such as
methylethyl ketone, methylpropyl ketone, cyclopentanone, cyclohexanone and the like,
lactones such as propiolactone, butyrolactone, valerolactone and the like, dialkyl
carbonates, amides such as dimethylformamide, diethylformamide, dimethylacetamide,
dimethylbutyramide and the like, lactams and derivates thereof including 1-methyl-2
pyrrolidone, 1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidone and the like, short chain trialkylamines, quinoline,
                                               15

pyrimidine, N-methylpiperidine, and the like. Also suitable as penetration aids are alcohols
and glycols, alkanolamines, quaternary ammonium compounds, imines and amine oxides.
Further biocidal active ingredients may be combined with the fungicidal active ingredients
of the composition including other fungicides, mouldicides, anti-sapstain compounds,
insecticides, bactericides, algaecides, and the like. Preferably the additional biocidal
ingredient is one or more insecticides.
Compositions are formulated using known methods by dissolving, dispersing, finely
dividing, slurrying, blending, emulsifying, homogenizing, stirring, high-shear mixing,
comminuting, milling, stabilising, etc, the active ingredients, and by admixing with
appropriate quantities of the one or more previously mentioned customary formulation
additives to form the composition of the invention. In addition triadimefon and/or
cyproconazole may be microencapsulated prior to mixing with other formulation additives.
Further details of suitable methods of manufacture of the composition are provided in the
examples.
Where applicable to the compositions formulated using the known methods referred to
above and as provided in methods of the examples, the mean particle size as determined
for example using a laser diffraction particle size analyser after dilution into water, is from
about 0.1 microns to about 50 microns. Preferably the mean particle size is from about 0.1
microns to about 20 microns. Still more preferably the mean particle size is from about 0.2
microns to about 5 microns.
The invention provides a method of preservation of glued wood products, which comprises
applying to the glue component of such products, fungicidally effective amounts of a
synergistic fungicidal composition comprising triadimefon and cyproconazole as active
ingredients.
Advantageously the composition of the invention is incorporated into the glues and resins
used to make glued wood products including various engineered wood products,
                                                16

reconstituted wood products and combinations thereof. The starting materials for such
products encompass solid wood, timber or lumber, veneers of various thicknesses, wood
flakes, chips, strands, particles, fibres, flour, dusts or nanofibrils, including chemically
and/or thermally modified derivatives thereof. Engineered wood products comprise glued
solid timber or glued wood veneers and include products such as glued laminated timber
 (for example, Glulam and Mabashira), laminated veneer lumber (LVL) and plywood.
 Reconstituted wood products comprise glued wood flakes, chips, strands, particles, fibres,
flour, dusts or nanofibrils, and include products such as strand board, oriented strand
 board, parallel strand lumber, flake board, particle board, medium density fibreboard
 (MDF), high density fibreboard, hardboard, combination products such as Triboard which
 comprises a strand board core with surface MDF layers, and wood plastic composites.
 Included in the scope of the invention are further combination products such as plywood in
 which one or both surface layers comprise a layer of MDF, another reconstituted wood
 product, a decorative veneer or a piece of solid wood. These surface layers may be
 introduced during normal lay up operations prior to hot pressing or may be added in gluing
 operations subsequent to manufacture of the base product. Also encompassed within the
 invention are other glued lignocellulosic products including glued products based on
 bamboo, rattan, bagasse, straw, hemp, jute sticks, flax shives and the like.
 Glue types suitable for the invention consist of various organic polymers including amino
 resins, phenolic resins, isocyanate resins, epoxy resins, PVA adhesives, polyurethane
 glues, protein and protein-derived adhesives, starches, lignocellulosic extractives and
 other thermosetting biomaterials of renewable origin. The glue mixtures may be used in a
 liquid or non-liquid (dry) state. Excluded from the invention are adhesives when used to
 adhere wood products to other materials such as metal, plastics, etc.
 Useful amino resins include urea and/or melamine derivatives including hydroxymethyl or
 alkoxymethyl derivatives of urea, melamine, benzoguanamine, and glycoluril, chiefly urea
 formaldehyde (UF) resins, melamine-formaldehyde (MF) resins, melamine-urea
 formaldehyde (MUF) resins. These are produced by reaction of widely varying ratios of
 amine (urea, melamine, benzoguanamine, glycoluril), formaldehyde and alcohol under
 differing reaction conditions to produce a very broad range of resins suitable for gluing
 wood products. Useful phenolic resins comprise novolac-type and resole-type phenol
                                                  17

formaldehyde resins, resorcinol-formaldehyde resins and phenol-resorcinol-formaldehyde
resins. Suitable isocyanate resins are based on (partially) polymerised diisocyanates,
mainly polymeric diphenylmethane diisocyanate (pMDI). PVA adhesives contain polyvinyl
acetate and polyvinyl alcohol in various mixtures, and other cross-linkable copolymers
thereof. Polyurethane adhesives, both one part and two part, may be used alone or in
combination with coupling agents. Protein based adhesives, including a wide range of
adhesives manufactured from modified proteins and crosslinked proteins, including
modified and/or crosslinked soy proteins, are particularly suitable for use with the
 invention. These products are gaining acceptance as formaldehyde-free adhesives
suitable for glued wood products. Also included are mixed adhesives such as soy protein
 modified amino and phenolic resins.
The glue mixture to which the composition of the invention is applied may also contain
 catalysts, plasticizers, wetting agents, inorganic and organic fillers and extenders
 (generally lignocellulosic residues), as well as other additives with various functions.
 Most often the abovementioned glue types are hot-cured but some, e.g. PVA adhesives,
 polyurethanes and epoxy resins, cure at ambient temperatures. Pressure is usually
 combined with hot cure and cold cure processes.
With some exceptions, notably isocyanate resins and epoxy resins, water is the solvent
 acting as carrier for the adhesive and the fungicidal active ingredients of the composition.
 Non-aqueous adhesive solvents that are compatible with the glue system may also be
 used with the composition, including certain alcohols, ketones and glycol ethers, as long
 as the amounts used do not adversely affect working and curing properties of the glue.
 Advantageously the fungicidal composition may be incorporated directly into the glue
 mixture prior to "lay up", the process whereby wood raw materials are arranged and
 combined with the glue mixture prior to the curing process. In this case the glue mixture
 containing the composition may be applied by pumping, blending, extruding, soaking,
 dipping, spinning, atomising, spraying, pouring, rolling, foaming, or curtain coating.
                                                18

The fungicidal composition may be sprayed, misted or otherwise coated directly on to
veneers, flakes, fibres, pieces of sawn timber and the like at any stage prior to the
additional of the glue component. The essential requirement of the method is that the
composition is delivered into the same final zone as the glue component.
 In some situations, particularly with reconstituted wood products, the fungicidal
composition may be applied directly to the wood raw material, sometimes termed the
"furnish", by injection into a refiner, blow line, strand or chip tumbler, often in mixture with
waxes and other agents, prior to, at the same time or after introduction of the glue mixture.
This approach may be used for example with reconstituted wood products containing
pMDI in order to minimise the water contact time for the pMDI component. In this case the
composition is mixed rapidly into the glue component of the glued wood product by
intimate mixing within the refiner or blow line prior to the curing reaction and, as such, is a
glueline fungicide treatment.
The active ingredients of the composition together with other additives are preferably pre
formulated as a single composition. However, it should be emphasised that active
ingredients of the composition may also be formulated separately and incorporated into
the glue prior to application, or may be applied sequentially to the wood components prior
to the addition of glue components, and that these scenarios falls within the scope of the
invention.
The fungicidal composition is administered to the glue mixture, or furnish, in sufficient
amounts to achieve desired concentrations or loadings of active ingredients in the finished
product taking into account the relative amounts of glue and wood component. The
calculated active ingredient loading, as well as the concentration of active ingredient
recovered from the finished product and measured by an analytical procedure (termed the
active ingredient "retention"), may be expressed as grams of active ingredient per cubic
metre of dried wood product (gai/m 3) or mass of active ingredient / mass of dried wood
product (% m/m).
                                                  19

   A minimum retention of an active ingredient may be specified with reference to a
   particular "hazard class" for the finished product, i.e. a category relating to the
   durability of the product in a defined geographical area, the location of the product in
   a building or structure, its exposure to moisture, proximity to the ground, etc. The
 5 minimum retention and other defined parameters are determined based on results of
   standard durability test methods set by organisations such as Australasian Wood
   Preservation Committee (AWPC), American Wood Preservers Association, Japanese
   Industrial Standards, EN Standards etc.
10 Use rates for the composition of the invention vary within the range from about 5
   gai/m 3 to about 5,000 gai/m 3 for triadimefon and within the range from about 5 gai/m 3
   to 700 gai/m 3 for cyproconazole, depending on the nature of the glued wood product,
   and the hazard class for the product. Preferably the use rates vary within the range
   from 225 gai/m 3 to 3,900 gai/m 3 for triadimefon and within the range from 10 gai/m 3 to
15 643 gai/m 3 for cyproconazole, provided that the total application rate does not exceed
   4,500 gai/m 3 . Still more preferably the use rates vary within the range from 225
   gai/m 3 to 3,800 gai/m 3 for triadimefon and within the range from 10 gai/m 3 to 570
   gai/m 3 for cyproconazole.
20 Optionally the composition may be used as a surface treatment in addition to a
   glueline treatment for glued wood products in order to provide an extra line of defence
   against fungal attack. In this instance the composition may be applied to the surface
   by spraying, dipping, painting, pouring, rolling, and the like.
25 EXAMPLES
   It will be appreciated that the compositions are provided as non-limiting examples
   only and that other synergistic fungicidal compositions comprising triadimefon and
   cyproconazole as active ingredients will also fall within the ambit of the instant
   invention.
30
   EXAMPLE 1.
   Slowly blend 210.5 grams of triadimefon (95% tech) and 21.3 grams of cyproconazole
   (94% tech) into 100 mL water containing 40 grams of commercially available rheology
                                                20

modifiers and dispersants. Add more water until a smooth slurry is formed then mill the
mixture to achieve an average particle size less than 5 microns. Add 1.5 grams of a
commercially available thickening agent. Stir until full viscosity is reached, add 2 grams of
isothiazolinone biocide then make up to 1,000 mL with water. The resulting suspension
concentrate containing 200 grams/litre triadimefon and 20 grams/litre cyproconazole can
be diluted with water or added directly to glue mixtures for use in glued wood products.
EXAMPLE 2.
Hammer mill 421 grams of triadimefon (95% tech) and 42.6 grams of cyproconazole (94%
tech), then mix in a ribbon blender with 30 grams commercially available anionic
dispersants and 506.4 grams of powdered silica until homogeneous. The resulting
dispersible powder containing 40.0% (w/w) triadimefon and 4.0% (w/w) cyproconazole can
be blended into powdered resins or dispersed into liquid glue mixtures for use in glued
wood products.
EXAMPLE 3.
Hammer mill 421 grams of triadimefon (95% tech) and 42.6 grams of cyproconazole (94%
tech), then mix in a ribbon blender with 100 grams commercially available anionic
dispersants and 420.0 grams of China clay until homogeneous. Add 10% to 15% water
and knead in a Z mixer until a moist powder is formed that just holds together. Extrude
through a cone extruder and dry in a fluid bed drier to about 1 to 2% moisture content.
The resulting dispersible extruded granule containing 40.0% (w/w) triadimefon and 4.0%
(w/w) cyproconazole can be dispersed into liquid glue mixtures for use in glued wood
products.
In the following examples, the synergistic fungicidal effects of compositions comprising
triadimefon and cyproconazole as active ingredients are demonstrated in various biological
assays. Synergy was determined by the "Wadley method" for similar joint action as
disclosed by Y. Levy, M. Benderly, Y. Cohen, U. Gisi, and D. Bassand ("The joint action of
fungicides in mixtures: comparison of two methods for synergy calculation", 1986, Bulletin
OEPP 16, 651-657), according to the formulae:
                                              21

 1.       ED(exp) = (a + b)/(a/EDA + b/EDB), in which,
          EDA is the concentration in ppm of (A), acting alone, which produced an end point,
          EDB is the concentration in ppm of (B), acting alone, which produced an end point,
          a and b are the proportions of (A) and (B) in the mixture, and
          ED(exp) is the expected equally effective concentration in ppm of (A) and (B),
          acting together, in the proportions a and b, and
2.        SF = ED(exp)/ED(obs), in which,
          SF is the synergy factor, and
          ED(obs) is the observed equally effective concentration in ppm of (A) and (B),
         acting together, in the proportions a and b.
 If SF > 1, there is synergistic interaction between the fungicides,
if SF < 1, there is antagonistic interaction, and
if SF = 1, there is additive action (i.e. similar joint action).
The end points used were EC90 or EC5 0 , the concentration producing 90% or 50%
inhibition of growth or weight loss resulting from fungal growth. EC values were calculated
by regression analysis of dose response data using the GraphPad Prism software
package (GraphPad Software, Inc., 5755 Oberlin Drive #110, San Diego, CA 92121,
USA). EC9o values are expressed in ppm and EC5 0 values are expressed in gai/m 3 .
EXAMPLE 4
Decay fungi were grown on malt extract agar plates for 5 days at 25 0C in the presence of
triadimefon alone or triadimenol alone (A), cyproconazole alone (B), and the pairs of
mixtures shown in Table 2.
                                                  22

 Table 2.     Combined action of triadimefon and cyproconazole or triadimenol and
 cyproconazole on decay fungi.
    Fungicide     ECgo(obs) ECgo(exp)       SF      Fungicide    ECgo(obs) ECgo(exp)      SF
 Antrodia xantha (Brown rot)
   Triadimefon       2.56                          Triadimenol     1.12
       20 : 1        0.34        1.60     4.73         20 :1       1.24         0.91     0.73
       10 :1         0.52        1.19     2.29         10 :1       1.14         0.77     0.68
        5 :1         0.63        0.82      1.31         5 :1       1.15         0.61     0.53
 Cyproconazole       0.19                         Cyproconazole    0.19
Fomitopsis lilacino-gilva (Brown rot)
   Triadimefon       1.48                          Triadimenol     0.37
       20: 1        0.38         0.97     2.57        20: 1        0.43         0.34     0.79
        5: 1        0.46         0.52     1.12         5: 1        0.38         0.28     0.72
 Cyproconazole      0.12                          Cyproconazole    0.12
 Trametes versicolor (White rot)
   Triadimefon       1.52                          Triadimenol     0.15
       20 :1        0.21         1.27     6.17        20 :1        0.16         0.15     0.95
       10 :1        0.57         1.11     1.96         10 :1       0.16         0.15    0.93
       5 :1         0.49         0.90     1.84         5 :1        0.18         0.15    0.88
 Cyproconazole      0.30                          Cyproconazole    0.19
Triadimenol acting alone was two to ten times more efficacious than triadimefon acting
alone, consistent with existing prior knowledge that triadimenol is the active metabolite of
triadimefon. Mixtures of triadimefon and cyproconazole in ratios ranging from 20 : 1 to 10 :
1 were synergistic whereas mixtures containing triadimenol and cyproconazole were
antagonistic. This is very surprising given that the prior knowledge that triadimenol is the
active metabolite of triadimefon, and even more surprising given the demonstration that
triadimefon alone is less efficacious than triadimenol alone. As a result of the unexpected
                                               23

synergy, the largest ECoo value (the weakest point) among the triadimefon-cyproconazole
mixtures was 0.63 ppm (Trametes versicolor). This was less than half of the ECoo values
for all of the triadimenol-cyproconazole mixtures for Antrodia. It must be noted that even
though cyproconazole alone was more effective than the other treatments, timber
preservation with a single active ingredient is always vulnerable to attack by certain fungal
species less susceptible to the single active ingredient, and does not provide for the
desired broad spectrum efficacy.
 EXAMPLE 5
 Further EC90 values were determined as in Example 4. Triadimenol acting alone was
 more potent than triadimefon acting against three of the four fungi, the exception being the
 dry rot organism Serpula lacrymans (Table 3). The triadimefon cyproconazole mixture
 was synergistic for all fungi, and the triadimenol cyproconazole mixture was antagonistic
 for all apart from Gloeophylum abietinum, where it was approximately additive. As a
 result of the synergy the largest ECoo value (the weakest point) for the triadimefon
 cyproconazole mixture was 8.3 ppm (Serpula lacrymans), much lower than the
 corresponding value for triadimenol cyproconazole, and illustrates conclusively that
 triadimefon cyproconazole is the better broad spectrum fungicide.
                                                24

Table 3.     Combined action of triadimefon and cyproconazole or triadimenol and
cyproconazole on decay fungi.
   Fungicide     ECgo(obs)   ECgo(exp)    SF      Fungicide   ECoo(obs) ECoo(exp)  SF
Pycnoporus coccineus (White rot), 4 days growth
  Triadimefon      0.34                          Triadimenol    0.10
      20 :1        0.25         0.33     1.32        20 :1      0.48      0.10    0.21
Cyproconazole      0.17                         Cyproconazole   0.17
Tyromyces palustris (Brown rot), 4 days growth
  Triadimefon      4.48                          Triadimenol    1.26
      20 :1        2.75         3.54     1.29        20 :1      2.90      1.21    0.42
 Cyproconazole     0.68                         Cyproconazole   0.68
Poria placenta (Brown rot), 5 days growth
  Triadimefon      0.82                          Triadimenol    0.84
      20 :1        0.69         0.83     1.20        20 :1      1.83      0.85    0.46
 Cyproconazole     0.92                         Cyproconazole   0.92
Gloeophyllum abietinum (Brown rot), 7 days growth
  Triadimefon      17.2                          Triadimenol    1.80
      20: 1        0.61         4.12     6.77        20: 1      1.36      1.40    1.02
 Cyproconazole     0.25                         Cyproconazole   0.25
Serpula lacrymans (Dry rot), 5 days growth
  Triadimefon      26.4                          Triadimenol    42.8
      20: 1        8.32         15.2     1.83        20: 1       102      19.20   0.19
 Cyproconazole     1.60                         Cyproconazole   1.60
                                             25

COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 6.
ECo values for triadirmefon and cyproconazoie acting alone and together in a 1:1
mixture, determined as in Examples 4 and 5, further demonstrate the range of the
synergistic interaction between these two fungicides (Table 4).
  Table 4. Combined acton of triadimefon and cyprcworazole on decay fungi.
            Fungicide                   ECgq(obs)          ECqo(exp)        SF
  Pycnoporus coccineus (White rol), 6 days growth
           TrIadimefon                     0,70
               1:1                         0.20              0.23          1.15
         Cyproconazole                     0.14
  PoRfa placenta (Brown rot), 6 days growth
           Triadirnefon                    1.08
               1:1                         0.43              0.54          1.26
         cyproconazole                     0.36
  Antodia xantha (Brorwn rot), 8 days growth
          Tradimeton                       2.52
               1:1                        0.67               0.78          1.10
         Cyproconazole                    0.46
 Coniophora puteana (Brown rot), 8 days growth
          Trladimefon                     27,4
               1:1                        2.45               3.61          1.47
        Cyproconazole                      1.93
 Serpula lacrymars(Dry rot), 8 days growth
          Triadimefon                     26.3
               1:1                        2.04               2.52          1.23
        Cyproconazole                      1.32
                                                  26

   EXAMPLE 7
   Efficacy as a glueline fungicide was tested in plywood manufactured with phenol
   formaldehyde (PF), a typical resin used in engineered wood products. The wood type
   was Pinus radiata sapwood, which, like many softwoods, is rapidly degraded by
 5 decay organisms, if not protected. Five 3.2 mm rotary-peeled veneers were laid up
   with fungicide-containing PF resin at a typical commercial glue spread rate (250
   g/m2), cold pressed for 10 minutes then hot pressed for 12 minutes at 135*C and 50
   MPa. Test specimens (25 mm x 25 mm x 16 mm) were cut, then leached for 14 days
   according to EN 84 before conducting a three month "rot jar test" as specified by the
10 Australasian Wood Preservation Committee (Laboratory Decay Test for Hazard
   Classes H3, H4 and H5, AWPC, 2007). Untreated controls contained no fungicide.
   Triadimefon alone displayed a typical dose response when challenged with
    Tyromyces palustris and Fomitopsis lifacinogilva but a flat dose response with
   Serpula lacrymans (a weak point).         Cyproconazole alone was more effective than
15 triadimefon and displayed partial inhibition of Serpula lacrymans (Table 5).
   Table 5. Rot jar test results for triadimefon and cyproconazole as glueline fungicides
                                                       Percentage weight loss
      Treatment            gailm3           Tyromyces        Fomitopsis         Serpula
                                             palustris      filacino-gilva    lacrymans
       Untreated              0                29.9              22.6            40.5
                            62.5               28.7              17.8            42.4
                             125               29.2              16.7            43.8
      Triadimefon
                             250               16.5              10.3            42.2
                             500                7.6               8.2            44.9
                            62.5               25.0               7.6            38.0
                             125               16.0              4.1             38.0
      Cyproconazole
                             250               17.1              2.7             37.9
                             500                4.3               0.8            29.6
                                                 27

    EXAMPLE 8
    Plywood was manufactured following the procedure in Example 7 using triadimefon
   and triadimenol as the glueline fungicides and tested by the rot jar method after
   leaching. The data in Table 6 demonstrates that triadimenol was more efficacious
 5 than triadimefon when acting alone in the glueline, consistent with the results
   obtained on agar plates in Example 2.
       Table 6. Rot jar test results for triadimefon and triadimenol as glueline fungicides
                                                          Percentage weight loss
          Treatment           gali/m3          Tyromyces         Fomitopsis    Antrodia xantha
                                                palustris      lilacino-gilva
          Untreated                               20.6              34.1            32.8
                                250               14.2              19.1            29.4
                                500               10,7              13.8             20.3
         Triadimefon
                               1000               2.0                5.1             12.5
                               2000               0.4                3.6             6.1
                                250               9.6                9.0            24.7
                                500               6.5                5.1             18.4
         Triadimenol
                               1000               0.9                1.6             11.2
                               2000               0.3                0.9              1.0
10  EXAMPLE 9
    In order to examine the interaction between triadimefon and cyproconazole in the
   glueline a synergy trial was performed using plywood manufactured with fungicide
   supplemented PF resin and the rot jar method described above (Table 7). Six glueline
   rates (expressed as gal/m3) of triadimefon alone, cyproconazole alone, triadimefon         +
15 cyproconazole (10:1) and triadimefon + cyproconazole (6:1) were used to establish
    EC50 values by regression analysis. Synergy was determined by the Wadley method
   as described above using the EC5 values. Synergy was observed in all but one
   instance.
                                                 28

   Table 7. Combined action of triadimefon and cyproconazole as glueline fungicides
   on decay fungi evaluated by the rot jar method
    Fungicide                            EC6a(obs)     EC60(exp)           SF
    Antrodla xantha (brown rot)
    Triad imefon                            248
    10:1 Ratio                               172          211             1.22
    6:1 Ratio                               252           194             0.77
    Cyproconazole                            84
    Fomitopsisilacino-gilva (brown rot)
    Triadimefon                              121
    10:1 Ratio                               38            60             1.58
    6:1 Ratio                                36            47             1.31
    Cyproconazole                             10
    Serpula lacrymans (dry rot)
    Triadimefon                            14328
    10:1 Ratio                             2500          3863             1.55
    6:1 Ratio                               1674         2725             1.63
    Cyproconazole                           465
5
  EXAMPLE 10
  A similar experiment to that in Example 9 demonstrates synergy in the glueline
  between triadimefon and cyproconazole at ratios ranging from 20:1 to 6:1 (Table 8).
                                            29

      Table 8. Combined action of triadimefon and cyproconazole as glueline fungicides
      on Coniophora puteana evaluated by the rot jar method.
      Fungicide                            ECo(obs)      ECso(exp)            SF
      Triadimefon                          2591144
      20:1 Ratio                             4094          7236             1.768
      15:1 Ratio                             1872          5516             2.947
      10:1 Ratio                             2189          3795             1.734
      6:1 Ratio                              1368          2416             1.766
      Cyproconazole                           345
 5
   EXAMPLE 11
   Plywood 29 mm thick was manufactured from seven 4.3 mm rotary peeled Pinus
   radiata sapwood veneers using PF resin supplemented with various rates of
   triadimefon plus cyproconazole at a 10:1 ratio. Plywood was also manufactured using
10 non-supplemented PF resin (untreated), and using PF resin supplemented with the
   formulation auxiliaries minus active ingredients (solvent control).       The finished
   plywood was then sprayed with the same mixtures to cover the top and bottom faces
   of the plywood. Test specimens (25 mm x 25 mm x 29 mm) were cut, leached and
   tested by the rot jar method as described in Example 7. As a result of the unexpected
15 synergy between triadimefon and cyproconazole the mixture provided excellent dose
   responses when tested against a wide range of fungi (Table 9), including the dry rot
   Serpula lacrymans, which was not controlled by triadimefon and was only partially
   controlled by cyproconazole.
                                              30

      Table 9. Rot jar test results for triadimefon  +  cyproconazole (10:1) as a glueline
      fungicide
       Treatment     le                             Percentage weight loss
                         a       Tyromyces Conlophora Famto sis        Antrodia     Serpula
                                  palustris   puteana       gfiacino-
                                                            gliva       xantha    lacrymans
        Untreated                   19.2        28.1         18.0        16.3        23.0
         Solvent                    17.8        32.7         13.5        16.2        23.5
          control
                    450+   2.2+      0.7        22.3          1.2         1.0         19.6
                     45    0.22
       Triadimefon 900 + 4.4+        0,6        14.5          0.4         0.4         18.9
             +       90    0.44
       cyproconaz 1800 + 8.8+
            Ole      180   0.88      0.4        0.6           0.4         0.0         5.0
                   2700 + 13.2 +     0.5         0.8          0.4         0.0         4.4
                     270   1.32
   EXAMPLE 12
 5 In the preceding examples the fungicides were challenged against individual decay
   fungi in an otherwise sterile environment (autoclaved agar, gamma irradiated rot jar
   blocks, etc).    Next, wood products glueline-treated with the synergistic fungicidal
   mixture were challenged with an uncontrolled mixture of decay organisms in an
   accelerated test simulating a real world situation where the wood product is saturated
10 with water and maintained in a warm and moist environment. Sheets of plywood were
   manufactured as described in Example 11. The sheets were glued together in a cold
   press with a cold cure phenol-resorcinol-formaldehyde resin supplemented with the
    10:1 triadimefon:cyproconazole mixtures and solvent control at the same rates as in
   the original hot cured gluelines. The final 58 mm thick panels were then sprayed top
15 and bottom with the corresponding products (see Table 10).                 For comparison
   untreated 58 mm panels were treated with a light organic solvent preservative (LOSP)
   containing tebuconazole and
                                               31

 propiconazole as specified by AS/NZS1 604.3 (plywood). The LOSP treatment
 corresponds to Hazard Class 3 (H3, i.e. exposed to the weather with periodic wetting, in
above ground situations). This "Reference Preservative" was applied at the full H3 rate,   2
 H3 rate and % H3 rate as stipulated by AWPC, 2007. Specimens were subjected to a bin
test for Hazard Class 1.2 (H1.2, protected from the weather, above ground, but with a risk
 of moisture content conducive to decay) developed by Scion Research, Rotorua, New
 Zealand. Samples were cut to the dimensions shown in Fig. 1 where the exposed
 gluelines are the top and bottom faces and the ends. End pieces 100 mm long were cut
 off and stapled back in place at the joins to enable periodic internal inspection.
 Figure 1. Side profile of test specimens in H1.2 bin trial.
                                       Joins
                                       Feeder
                                       blocks
                                               L
                                                                             E 90mm
           100 mm                                                    100 mm
                                       750 mm
The specimens were exposed to a wide range of fungal spores from the air, processing
equipment and soak water. As an additional challenge feeder blocks comprising 30 mm x
30 mm x 7 mm pieces of untreated solid Pinus radiata sapwood pre-inoculated with
Antrodia xantha and Serpula lacrymans were positioned with one fungal species at each
end. Ten replicates of each treatment were arranged randomly in stacks with intervening
fillets of untreated Pinus radiata sapwood and placed in 180 Litre plastic bins. The bins
contained enough water to maintain 100% humidity and were sealed and maintained at
approximately 25 C. Table 9 shows the averaged data for decay assessments after
approximately 18 months. Minimal surface and cross sectional decay was only apparent
at the two low rates of the triadimefon + cyproconazole glueline treatment, with the
                                               32

   plywood completely intact at the two higher rates. The LOSP comparative data
   indicates a very high level of performance of the glueline treatment. Although H3
   treatments are officially verified by a more challenging test method, the data clearly
   indicate protection equal to or better than that provided by a H3 Reference
 5  Preservative can be provided by low to intermediate rates of the glueline treatment.
    Moreover, this high level performance was achieved in the presence of the dry rot
   fungus Serpula facrymans which was not controlled by either triadimefon or
   cyproconazole alone.
   Table 10. Results of an H1.2 bin trial for triadimefon   + cyproconazole (10:1) as a
10 glueline fungicide.
                                     Glueline treated plywood
                           Glueline            Surface                 1  years
     Treatment              gailm,              gai/m 2     Surface decay   Cross sectional
                                                             coverage (%)     decay (%)
      Untreated                                                   40              64
      Solvent control                                             27              28
                           450+45            2.2+0.22              1               2
                           900 + 90          4.4 + 0.44            1               1
      Triadimefon +
      cyproconazole       1800 + 180         8.8 + 0.88            0               0
                         2700+ 270           13.2+1.32             0               0
                                      LOSP treated plywood
      Solvent control                                             19              38
                                    %/H3  rate                     5               8
     Tebuconazole +                   H3 rate                      2               5
      propiconazole
                                     H3 rate                       1               1
   The glueline composition and method of treatment of the invention enabled by the
   unexpected synergy between triadimefon and cyproconazole is superior to the LOSP
   treatment, and to other post manufacturing methods of preservation, in that the
15 process for
                                                  33

introducing the preservative into the wood product can be incorporated directly into any
existing manufacturing process for engineered and reconstituted wood products that uses
glue. Other preservation methods require at least one additional process step (the
treatment step, often also a re-drying or flashing off step), LOSP methods produce solvent
residue problems, and aqueous systems can produce distortion of the wood, etc. Finally
use of the synergistic composition produces a very high level of resistance to decay under
challenging test conditions.
ADVANTAGES
The present invention has one or more of the following advantages:
Comparatively inexpensive
Reduced toxicity
Easier to use
Safer to use
Maintains integrity of resin component
Maintains final product bond strength
Increased efficacy against dry rots
Increased efficacy against soft rots
Broad spectrum control against fungal pathogens
Improved glueline preservative
EQUIVALENTS CLAUSE
The Invention may also broadly be said to consist in the parts, elements and features
referred or indicated in the specification, individually or collectively, and any or all
combinations of any of two or more parts, elements, members or features and where
specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents such equivalents are
deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
                                                34

MODIFICATIONS AND VARIATIONS
The invention has been described with particular reference to certain embodiments
thereof. It will be understood that various modifications can be made to the above
mentioned embodiment without departing from the ambit of the invention. The skilled
reader will also understand the concept of what is meant by purposive construction.
The examples and the particular proportions set forth are intended to be illustrative only
and are thus non-limiting.
Throughout the description and claims of the specification the word "comprise" or
variations thereof are not intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or
steps.
KIT OF PARTS
It will also be understood that where a product, method or process as herein described or
claimed and that is sold incomplete, as individual components, or as a "kit of Parts", that
such exploitation will fall within the ambit of the invention.
                                                35

   CLAIMS
   1. A broad spectrum, synergistic fungicidal composition for glueline preservation of a
   glued wood product comprising as active ingredients: (A) triadimefon, and (B)
 5 cyproconazole characterised in that the weight ratio of (A) : (B) is from 20:1 to 6:1, the
   composition being further characterised in that it is formulated to be applied wherein the
   application rate for (A) is from 225 gai/m 3 to 3,900 gai/m 3 and the application rate for (B)
   is from 10 gai/m 3 to 643 gai/m 3 , provided the total application rate does not exceed
   4,500 gai/m 3 , the composition being further characterised in that it is not a fortified glue
10 mixture and is formulated as a glue additive.
   2. The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 wherein the weight ratio of (A)
   (B) is from 15 : 1 to 6 : 1.
15 3. The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 further comprising one or more
   biocides selected from the group comprising insecticides, fungicides, mouldicides,
   anti-sapstain compounds, bactericides and algaecides.
   4. The fungicidal composition according to claim 4 wherein the further biocide is an
20 insecticide.
   5. The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 comprising about 0.6% to about
   60% of active ingredient (A) and about 0.1% to about 8.6% of active ingredient (B) on
   a weight basis.
25
   6. The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 formulated as a suspension, an
   emulsion, a solution, a microcapsule, a concentrate, a powder, a granule, a gel, or a
   dispersion.
30 7. The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 wherein the mean particle size of
   the composition is from about 0.1 microns to about 20 microns.
                                                  36

   8.    The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 formulated for use as an
   optional, additional surface treatment for glued wood products.
   9.    The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 wherein the composition is
 5 formulated for application rates which vary within the range from 450 gai/m 3 to 2,700
   gai/m 3 for triadimefon and from 45 gai/m 3 to 270 gai/m 3 for cyproconazole.
   10. The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 wherein the glued wood product
   is selected from: (i) an engineered wood product comprising glued solid timber and
10 glued wood veneers, such products including glued laminated timber, laminated
   veneer lumber and plywood, (ii) a reconstituted wood product selected from the group
   comprising glued wood flakes, chips, strands, particles, fibres, flour, dusts and
   nanofibrils, such products including strand board, oriented strand board, parallel
   strand lumber, flake board, particle board, medium density fibreboard, high density
15 fibreboard, hardboard, wood plastic composites, and mixtures thereof, (iii) a product
   comprising engineered and reconstituted wood components, and (iv) a glued
   lignocellulosic product comprising bamboo, rattan, bagasse, straw, hemp, jute sticks,
   or flax shives.
20 11.   The fungicidal composition according to claim 1 wherein the glue component of
   the glued wood product is selected from an amino resin including urea-formaldehyde,
   melamine-formaldehyde,        melamine-urea-formaldehyde,        and   hydroxymethyl  or
   alkoxymethyl derivatives of urea, melamine, benzoguanamine, or glycoluril, a
   phenolic resin including phenol-formaldehyde, resorcinol-formaldehyde or phenol
25 resorcinol-formaldehyde, an isocyanate resin, a PVA adhesive, a polyurethane
   adhesive, a protein based adhesive, and/or a derivative or combination thereof.
   12. A method for glueline preservation of a glued wood product which comprises
   applying to the glueline of said product a fungicidally effective amount of the broad
30 spectrum, synergistic fungicidal composition according to claim 1, at application rates
   which vary within the range from 225 gai/m 3 to 3,900 gai/m 3 for triadimefon and within
   the range from 10 gai/m 3 to 643 gai/m 3 for cyproconazole, provided that the total
   application rate does not exceed 4,500 gai/m 3 .
                                                37

   13. The method according to claim 12 wherein the composition is optionally applied
   as an additional surface treatment for glued wood products.
   14. The method according to claim 12 wherein the application rate for triadimefon is
 5 from about 450 gai/m 3 to about 2,700 gai/m 3 and the application rate for
   cyproconazole is from about 45 gai/m 3 to about 270 gai/m 3 .
   15. The method according to claim 12 wherein the fungicidal composition is applied
   to the glueline during manufacture of a glued wood product by mixing into the glue
10 mixture prior to the lay-up operation, by mixing with the wood furnish by injection into
   a refiner, blow line, strand or chip tumbler prior to, at the same time or after
   introduction of the glue mixture, or by direct application to veneers, flakes, fibres, or
   pieces of sawn timber, at any stage prior to the additional of the glue component.
15 16. The method according to claim 12 wherein the glued wood product is selected
   from: (i) an engineered wood product comprising glued solid timber and glued wood
   veneers, such products including glued laminated timber, laminated veneer lumber and
   plywood, (ii) a reconstituted wood product selected from the group comprising glued
   wood flakes, chips, strands, particles, fibres, flour, dusts and nanofibrils, such products
20 including strand board, oriented strand board, parallel strand lumber, flake board,
   particle board, medium density fibreboard, high density fibreboard, hardboard, wood
   plastic composites, and mixtures thereof, (iii) a product comprising engineered and
   reconstituted wood components, and (iv) a glued lignocellulosic product comprising
   bamboo, rattan, bagasse, straw, hemp, jute sticks, or flax shives.
25
   17. The method according to claim 12 wherein the glue component of the glued wood
   product is selected from an amino resin including urea-formaldehyde, melamine
   formaldehyde,    melamine-urea-formaldehyde,        and hydroxymethyl or alkoxymethyl
   derivatives of urea, melamine, benzoguanamine, or glycoluril, a phenolic resin including
30 phenol-formaldehyde, resorcinol-formaldehyde or phenol-resorcinol-formaldehyde, an
   isocyanate resin, a PVA adhesive, a polyurethane adhesive, a protein based adhesive,
   and/or a derivative or combination thereof.
                                                38

   18. Use of a combination of (A) triadimefon and (B) cyproconazole in synergistic
   weight ratios from 20:1 to 6:1 in the manufacture of a broad spectrum fungicidal
   composition formulated for glueline preservation of a glued wood product at an
   application rate for (A) of from 225 gai/m 3 to 3,900 gai/m 3 and at an application rate
 5 for (B) of from 10 gai/m 3 to 643 gai/m3 , provided the total application rate does not
   exceed 4,500 gai/m 3 .
   19. The use according to claim 18 as an optional, additional surface treatment for
   glueline treated glued wood products.
10
   20. The use according to claim 18 wherein the application rate for triadimefon is from
   450 gai/m 3 to 2,700 gai/m 3 , and the application rate for triadimefon is from 450 gai/m 3
   to 2700 gai/m3 , and the application rate for cyproconazole is from 45 gai/m 3 to 270
   gai/m 3 , provided the total application rate does not exceed 4,500 gai/m 3
15
   21. A glued wood product when derived from a method of any one of claims 12 to 17
   substantially as hereinbefore described.
                                                 39

