                                          -15
Abstract
A core orientation validation system (10) comprising a primary core orientation
system (12) attached to a core barrel (24) and a validating core orientation system
(14). When the validating core orientation system (14) reaches a position proximate
the primary core orientation system (12) prior to breaking of the core, the validating
core orientation system (14) requests a current core orientation measurement from
the primary core orientation system (12). The received core orientation
measurement is then validated against a correlating core orientation measurement
determined from at least one measurement unit (36) forming part of the validating
core orientation system (14). In an alternative formulation, the validating core
orientation system (14) requests a current core orientation measurement from the
primary core orientation system (12) on physical connection with the primary core
orientation system prior (12) to breaking of the core.
Figure 2

   0
       0
        5
     a
00

                                              -1
          "SYSTEM AND METHOD OF VALIDATING A CORE ORIENTATION
                                      MEASUREMENT"
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 [0001]The invention relates to a system and method of validating a core orientation
 measurement.      The invention is particularly suited to integration with a borehole
camera such that the system may be further utilised to undertake borehole orientation
 measurements prior to validating the core orientation measurement taken by another
system.
 BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
 [0002]The following discussion of the background to the invention is intended to
facilitate an understanding of the present invention. However, it should be appreciated
that the discussion is not an acknowledgment or admission that any of the material
 referred to was published, known or part of the common general knowledge in any
jurisdiction as at the priority date of the application.
 [0003] In mining operations, the drilling of a hole is performed with the assistance of
 multiple pipe segments. Each pipe segment is typically 3m or 6m in length. Thus a
 100m plus drill hole typically comprises around 20 pipe segments.
 [0004]Being made up of multiple pipe segments, it is not expected that the drill hole
will be perfectly linear. In fact, in some instances, the ability of each pipe segment to
 be moved out of linear orientation relative to its adjacent pipe segments can be
exploited to direct the drill hole to a desired location.
 [0005]At the same time, the purpose of drilling the hole is to obtain one or more
samples of the material being drilled. These drill samples can then provide geologists
with information as to whether any minerals exist at the drilled location and/or whether
the minerals exist in a quantity which makes mining commercially viable.
 [0006]While the geologist can easily determine what minerals may exist in the drilled
 location, the question of whether the mineral exists in a commercially viable quantity is
generally one that has to be determined through proving an ore body. Proving an ore
 body generally requires information not only of the drill hole itself, but also of the core
samples taken from each drill hole.

                                             -2
[0007]To elaborate, measurements as to the orientation of the drill hole show the
geophysical position of the point where the core sample is taken, but not the orientation
of the core sample itself. Thus a separate orientation measurement is generally taken
of the core sample. The combination of the two measurements - commonly referred
to as borehole orientation and core orientation respectively - can then give the
geologist and other mining professionals a better indication of the shape, size and
position of the ore body.
[0008] However, unlike borehole orientation measurements which are typically reliable
- or at least can be re-performed without issue, the driller must obtain an accurate core
orientation measurement prior to extracting the core sample. It is therefore imperative
that core orientation measurements be as accurate as possible to ensure that the core
samples obtained provide as accurate a picture as possible of the ore body to the
geologist or other mining professionals.
[0009] It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a system for providing
a separate validating core orientation prior to extraction of the core sample. A further
optional object of the present invention is to provide this separate validating core
orientation measurement as part of the process of obtaining one or more borehole
orientation measurement.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0010] Throughout this document, unless otherwise indicated to the contrary, the terms
"comprising", "consisting of", and the like, are to be construed as non-exhaustive, or in
other words, as meaning "including, but not limited to".
[0011]In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is a core
orientation validating system comprising:
        a primary core orientation system attached to a core barrel; and
        a validating core orientation system
where when the validating core orientation system reaches a position proximate the
primary core orientation system prior to breaking of the core, the validating core
orientation system requests a current core orientation measurement system from the
primary core orientation system and validates the received core orientation
measurement system against a correlating core orientation measurement determined

                                              -3
from at least one measurement unit forming part of the validating core orientation
system.
[0012]In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is a core
orientation validation system comprising:
       a primary core orientation system attached to a core barrel; and
       a validating core orientation system
where when the validating core orientation system makes a physical connection with
the primary core orientation system prior to breaking of the core, the validating core
orientation system requests a current core orientation measurement system from the
primary core orientation system and validates the received core orientation
measurement system against a correlating core orientation measurement determined
from at least one measurement unit forming part of the validating core orientation
system
[0013] In the context of this aspect of the present invention, physical connection need
not be direct physical connection, but may also be connection by way of intermediate
components..
[0014] In relation to either aspect of the invention, the at least one measurement unit
may be one or more of the following: a gyroscope, tri-axial accelerometers, tri-axial
magnetometers.
[0015] In relation to either aspect of the invention, it is preferred that the validating core
orientation system forms part of an overshot assembly. This makes it easier for drillers
as the invention forms part of readily recognisable components used in the drilling
process.
[0016] In relation to the second aspect of the invention, the primary core orientation
system may be mechanically locked in place relative to the validating core orientation
system when physical connection therebetween is established.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017] The invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to
the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is a schematic representation of a first embodiment of the present invention.

                                            -4
PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0018] Specific embodiments of the present invention are now described in detail. The
terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only,
and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.
[0019] In accordance with a first embodiment of the invention there is a core orientation
validating system 10 comprising:
    *   a primary core orientation system 12;
    *   a validating orientation system 14.
[0020]The primary core orientation system 12 may take any form of existing prior art
core orientation system, such as the OriShotTM series of core orientation tools
developed by Coretell Pty Ltd of Maddington, Western Australia or the Reflex ACT T M
series of core orientation tools offered for hire by the imdex Group of Companies of
Osborne Park, Western Australia.
[0021]It is to be noted that a key requirement in determining the primary core
orientation system 12 is that it must have existing wireless communication capabilities.
For the purposes of this embodiment of the invention, the components that allow the
primary core orientation system 12 to communicate wirelessly with other devices will
be referred to as a communications unit 16. Similarly, the components that allow the
primary core orientation system 12 to perform core orientation measurements and
process same will be referred to, respectively, as the measurements unit 18 and the
processing unit 20.
[0022]A further requirement of the primary core orientation system 12 is that it must
connect at one end to a core barrel 24 and at its opposing end to an overshot connector
26.
[0023] In all other respects, the physical makeup of the primary core orientation system
12 and the components and             methodology used to obtain core orientation
measurements is immaterial to this invention.
[0024]The validating orientation system 14 comprises
    *   a downhole unit 30; and
    .   a handheld unit 32.

                                            -5
[0025]The downhole unit 30 comprises a housing 34, a measurement unit 36, a
processing unit 38, storage means 40, a communications unit 42 and a battery pack
44.
[0026]The housing 34 is cylindrical in shape. In this embodiment, the housing 34 is
adapted at one end 46 to connect to the overshot retriever 48 and at a second end 48
to be connected to a wireline (not shown). The overshot retriever 48 is adapted to
connect to a floating pin 50 forming part of the overshot connector 26. In this manner,
the overshot retriever 48 and overshot connector 26 forms an overshot of standard
construction as would readily be apparent to the person skilled in the art.
[0027] As the housing 34 is intended to protect the electronic components that form
the measurement unit 36, processing unit 38, storage means 40, communications unit
42 and battery pack 44, the housing 34 also contains a plurality of cushioning layers
(not shown). These cushioning layers increase in the robustness of their cushioning
as they close in on the electronic components.
[0028]The measurement unit 36 consists of a vibrating structure gyroscope
incorporating microelectromechanical       systems technology 52 (more commonly
referred to as a "MEMS gyroscope", a term which will be used throughout the
remainder     of  this  specification),  tri-axial accelerometers    54   and    tri-axial
magnetometers 56.
[0029]The measurement         unit 36 further consists of at least one additional
measurement sensor 58. In this embodiment the at least one additional measurement
sensor 58 is a temperature sensor.
[0030] The processing unit 38 comprises a low-power processor 60, read-only memory
62 and transitional memory 64.        The processing unit 60 is in data and control
communication with each of the MEMS gyroscope 52, tri-axial accelerometers 54 and
tri-axial magnetometers 56.      The processing unit 38 is also in data and control
communication with the storage means 40 and communications unit 42.
[0031]The actual role of the processing unit 38 will be described in more detail below.
[0032] The storage means 40 primarily takes the form of flash memory. The capacity
of the flash memory may vary according to user requirements.

                                            -6
[0033] The storage means 40 also includes components to facilitate the reading of data
from, and the writing of data to, the flash memory. As such components are standard
elements of most storage means 40 they will not be described further here and
expected to be within the purview of the person skilled in the art.
[0034]The communications unit 42 takes the form of a radio frequency ("RF")
transceiver. The RF transceiver is attuned to communicate with a like RF transceiver
66 contained within the handheld unit 32.
[0035]The battery pack 44 takes the form of a collection of lithium batteries configured
in a manner as would be readily known by the person skilled in the art. The battery
pack 44 provides power to the various elements of the downhole unit 30.
[0036] In addition to the RF transceiver 66 described above, the handheld unit 32
includes a user interface 68, battery 70 and ancillary processing unit 72.
[0037]The user interface 68 comprises a display 74 and membrane keypad 76. The
role of the user interface 68 will be described in more detail below.
[0038]The battery 70 is a standard user-replaceable lithium battery that provides
power to the various elements of the handheld unit 32.
[0039] The ancillary processing unit 72 comprises a low-power processor 78, read-only
memory 80 and transitional memory 82. The ancillary processing unit 72 is in data and
control communication with each of the display 74, membrane keypad 76 and RF
transceiver 66.
[0040] This first embodiment of the invention will now be described in the context of its
intended use.
[0041]The primary core orientation system 12 is set up by a driller (not shown) in
accordance with its operating instructions and attached to the core barrel 24 and
overshot connector 26. If not already configured to allow communication between the
primary core orientation system 12 and the communications unit 42, a further
calibration step might be performed to ensure that the communications unit 16, 42 can
exchange data and control signals therebetween.
[0042] With the downhole unit 30 and the primary core orientation system 12 now able
to communicate with one another, the driller then operates the primary core orientation

                                            -7
system 12 as per its normal use up to the point where the primary core orientation
system 12 is to be retrieved from the borehole along with the core barrel 24.
[0043]At this time the downhole unit 30 and handheld unit 32 are powered up.
Powering up of the downhole unit 30 causes the low-power processor 60 to commence
execution of a computer program stored in read-only memory 62 and using the storage
space of transitional memory 64 as and when required. Similarly, powering up of the
handheld unit 32 causes the low-power processor 78 to commence execution of a
computer program stored in read-only memory 80 and using the storage space of
transitional memory 82 as and when required.
[0044] Rather than continue to refer back to the operation of the low-power processors
60, 78, etc., for the remainder of this embodiment, descriptions of further functions of
both the downhole unit 30 and the handset unit 32 should be read as the execution of
software by way of the appropriate processor et. al. to achieve those functions.
[0045]As part of the initial instructions executed by the low power processor 60, the
RF transceiver 42 is commanded             to search for handheld units 32 within
communications range. When the RF transceiver 42 identifies a handheld unit 32
within communications range, the RF transceiver 42 of the downhole unit 30 and the
RF transceiver 66 of the handheld unit 14 establish a communications channel for
future data and control communication between the two units 30, 32.
[0046] With a communication channel between the handheld unit 30 and downhole unit
32 established, the handheld unit 30 issues commands to the downhole unit 32 to
perform a series of self tests. As the self tests are not important to the invention, they
will not be described in more detail here.
[0047] Upon successful completion of the self tests, the downhole unit 30 sends a
command signal to the handheld unit 32 to this effect.
[0048] Following receipt of this command signal, the handheld unit 30 reports to a user
that the downhole unit 32 is ready for operation by way of an appropriate message
conveyed via display 74.
[0049]To do this, the user presses the button of the membrane keypad 76 marked
"New Survey". Pressing this button causes the low-power processor 60 to execute a

                                            -8
series of commands that operate to request the user select the depth at which the
desired measurement is to be taken.
[0050] Receipt of this command signal by the downhole unit 32 causes the low-power
processor 60 to issue a command to the MEMS gyroscope 52 and each of the tri-axial
accelerometer     54 and     tri-axial magnetometers    56 to start their respective
measurements. In this embodiment, this means obtaining a measurement associated
with the orientation of the borehole and a separate orientation measurement which can
be correlated with the orientation measurements taken by the measurements unit 18
of the primary core orientation system 12 (for example, a measurement in reference to
top dead centre of the borehole). At the same time, the user commences their normal
drilling procedure. As drilling progresses, at some point the communications channel
between the downhole unit 30 and the handheld unit 32 is broken.
[0051]As drilling continues, the MEMS gyroscope 52, tri-axial accelerometers 54 and
tri-axial accelerometers 54 each continues to operate, taking measurements at pre
determined sample rates. In this embodiment, the pre-determined sample rates of
each measuring system is the same so as to allow for easy cross-referencing of
orientation   measurements       as determined   by differing    components.     These
measurements are then conveyed as digital values back to the low-power processor
60, with conversion from an analogue signal to a digital signal being performed as
required.
[0052]At the same time the tri-axial accelerometers 54 operate to measure the effect
of gravity on each of its orthogonal sensors, they also seek to obtain the then current
temperature measurement as recorded by the additional measurement sensor 58. On
receipt of the then current temperature measurement from the additional measurement
sensor 58, the tri-axial accelerometers operate to adjust the orientation measurement
as determined by its raw measurement values to compensate for temperature
variations. This compensated value is then conveyed back to the low-power processor
60.
[0053]The additional measurement          sensor 58 also operates to convey its
measurements to the low-power processor 60.

                                             -9
[0054]On receipt of the various borehole orientation measurement values from each
of the MEMS gyroscope 52, tri-axial accelerometers 54 and additional measurement
sensor 56, the low-power processor 60 combines these values into a data record 84
along with an elapsed value. This data record 84 is then written to flash memory 40
for permanent storage.
[0055]At the surface, the driller has a corresponding stop watch (not shown) which
operates to measure elapsed time.           The driller uses this stop watch to make
predetermined stops during the running of the survey deemed to correspond with
particular depths of the borehole where it is desired to measure the orientation of the
borehole. The elapsed time, as recorded by the stop watch is then noted by the driller
for cross-referencing purposes when the downhole unit 30 is returned to the surface.
[0056]As the downhole unit 30 enters into communications                range with the
communications unit 16 of the primary core orientation system 12, a communication
link between the two units is again established. Once established, the low power
processor 60 issues a control signal to the processing unit 20 by way of the re
established communications link, for the processing unit 20 to provide its current core
orientation measurement as measured by way of the measurements unit 18.
[0057]On receipt of the current core orientation measurement determined by the
measurements unit 18, the low power processor 60 operates to package this
measurement along with core orientation measurements as determined by one or
more of the MEMS gyroscope 52, the tri-axial accelerometers 54 or the tri-axial
magnetometers 56. This package of core orientation measurements is then stored in
storage means 40 for later recovery.
[0058]The driller then continues to lower the downhole unit 30 until such time as the
overshot retriever 48 makes contact with the overshot connector 26. When this occurs,
the driller uses techniques as are known in the art to ensure that the overshot retriever
48 captures the floating pin 50.
[0059]Once captured, the down hole unit 30 is physically connected to the primary
core orientation system 12 and, by extension, the core barrel 24. However, the capture
of the floating pin 50 by the overshot retriever 48 does not prevent movement between

                                            -10
the two. Thus, it is possible for the primary core orientation system 12 to move relative
to the downhole unit 30 during the retrieval process.
[0060]When the primary core orientation system 12, with core barrel 24 attached, has
been retrieved to the surface, the user retrieves the handheld unit 32 and presses the
"Retrieve Core Measurement" button of the membrane keypad 76. Pressing this button
issues a command to the RF transceiver 66 to search for RF transceiver 42. When
the RF transceiver 66 identifies the RF transceiver 42, the low-power processor 60
operates to communicate the package of core orientation measurements back to the
handheld unit 32.
[0061]Once the handheld unit 32 receives the package of core orientation
measurements, the low-power processor 78 operates to compare the core orientation
measurement provided by the primary core orientation system 12 with the core
orientation measurements taken by at least one of the MEMS gyroscope 52, the tri
axial accelerometers 54 or the tri-axial magnetometers 56. If the comparison shows a
discrepancy in core orientation measurements outside a set tolerance, this is
considered anomalous and the handheld unit 32 informs the driller of this fact by way
of the display 74. The driller is also displayed the extent of the discrepancy, for future
reference by the geologist or other mining professional when seeking to determine a
the proper orientation of the core.
[0062] However, if the comparison shows that the core orientation measurements are
equal within the set tolerance, the driller is also informed of this fact by way of the
display 74. The driller can then re-orient the core barrel 24 in accordance with the
normal operating instructions of the primary core orientation system 12.
[0063] Using the invention as described in this embodiment, the driller can get an
independent assessment of the orientation of the core barrel prior to breaking. In this
manner, if there is a calibration failure of the primary core orientation system 12 or
movement of the core barrel 24 during drilling, the validating orientation system 14 will
indicate that this may have occurred and prompt further investigation. In either case,
it may still be able to properly orient the core barrel 24 using the orientation
measurements taken by the downhole unit 30.

                                           -11
[0064] In accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention, where like
numerals reference like parts, the processing of the core orientation validating system
10 is modified such that the downhole unit 30 operates to continuously request
orientation measurements taken by the primary core orientation system 12 once the
communication link between the downhole unit 30 and primary core orientation system
12 is re-established. These measurements are then stored in storage means 40 until
such time as the overshot retriever 48 captures the floating pin 50.
[0065]When the downhole unit 30 senses that the floating pin 50 has been captured
and a physical connection established with the primary core orientation system 12, the
low-power processor 60 operates to package the orientation measurement received
from the primary core orientation system 12 prior to connection with the core orientation
measurements as determined by one or more of the MEMS gyroscope 52, the tri-axial
accelerometers 54 or the tri-axial magnetometers 56. This package of core orientation
measurements is then stored in storage means 40 for later recovery as per the first
embodiment.
[0066] It is to be noted that in this embodiment, detection of capture of the floating pin
50 is determined by a change in accelerometer measurement values.
[0067] In accordance with a third embodiment of the invention, where like numerals
reference like parts, the low power-processor 60 operates to determine a core
orientation measurement based on measurements taken by the MEMS gyroscope 52.
However, as there is the potential for the MEMS gyroscope 52 to drift and thus produce
inaccurate readings itself, the core orientation measurement determined from the
MEMS gyroscope 52 may be cross-referenced against core orientation measurements
determined      by way    of the tri-axial   accelerometers    54 and/or the      tri-axial
magnetometers 56.
[0068] In this manner, if the MEMS gyroscope 52 core orientation measurement is
deemed accurate, the low power processor 60 operates to package only the core
orientation measurement taken by the MEMS gyroscope 52 with the core orientation
measurement taken by the primary core orientation system 12 for later comparison as
per the first embodiment of the invention. However, if the MEMS gyroscope 52 core
orientation measurement is deemed inaccurate, the low power processor 60 operates
to package either the core orientation          measurement     taken by the tri-axial

                                             -12
accelerometers 54, the tri-axial magnetometers 56 or both along with the core
orientation measurement taken by the primary core orientation system 12 for later
comparison as per the first embodiment of the invention.
[0069] In accordance with a fourth embodiment of the invention, where like numerals
reference like parts, the downhole unit 30 may be further modified so as to be
independent of the overshot retriever 48. In this manner, the downhole unit 10 may be
used independently to obtain borehole orientation measurements or to provide
orientation measurements that can facilitate rig alignment.
[0070] It should be appreciated by the person skilled in the art that the above invention
is not limited to the embodiment described. In particular, the following modifications
and improvements may be made without departing from the scope of the present
invention:
    *   [0071]While the invention has been described with reference to two separate
        components - i.e. a downhole unit 30 and a handheld unit 32 - it is possible to
        integrate the functionality of the handheld unit 32 into the downhole unit 30 and
        thus run the system as a single unit. However, there are significant operational
        disadvantages to this approach which lead the applicant to prefer the two unit
        approach as described.
    *   [0072]The MEMS gyroscope 52 may be modified to also include the tri-axial
        accelerometers 54.
    0   [0073]Storage means 40 in forms other than flash memory may be used with
        the invention. However, due to the environment in which the invention operates,
        storage means 40 with no moving parts are to be preferred to ensure reliability.
    *   [0074]Communications between the handheld unit 32 and downhole unit 30
        may be established by means other than a radio frequency transceiver. For
        instance,   near-field   communications     technology,     wi-fi or BluetoothTM
        technologies may be employed instead of the RF transceiver. Similarly, the
        communications channel may be established by means of a wired connection,
        such as a USB connection.
    *   [0075] In a similar fashion, the handheld unit 32 may take the form of a tablet
        computer or smart phone running app software to achieve the functionality
        described above.

                                           -13
   *   [0076]The downhole unit 30 may operate to perform the series of self tests on
       power up rather than on specific receipt of a command from the handheld unit
       32.
   *   [0077]The handheld unit 32 may be able to communicate one or more desired
       measurements to an external processing device and/or storage means such as
       a desktop computer, tablet computer, smart phone or portable hard drive.
   *   [0078]Similarly, where the primary core orientation system 12 forms uses a
       handset, it is possible that the handset 32 be further modified to allow for control
       of both the primary core orientation system 12 and the validating orientation
       system 14.
   *   [0079]The overshot retriever 48 and overshot connector 26 may be replaced
       with other forms by which a mechanical connection may be formed between the
       primary core orientation system 12 and the validating orientation system 14.
       Furthermore, it is preferable that such a mechanical connection lock the primary
       core orientation system 12 in place relative to the validating orientation system
       14.
   *   [0080]The primary core orientation system 12 and validating orientation system
       14 may be configured to obtain other correlated orientation measurements
       beyond top dead centre. For instance a measurement of roll may be used to
       determine the correlated orientation measurements.
[0081] It should be further appreciated that even more embodiments of the invention
incorporating one or more of the aforementioned features, where such features are not
mutually exclusive, can be created without departing from the invention's scope.

                                          -14
We Claim:
1. A core orientation validation system comprising:
       a primary core orientation system attached to a core barrel; and
       a validating core orientation system
   where when the validating core orientation system reaches a position proximate
   the primary core orientation system prior to breaking of the core, the validating core
   orientation system requests a current core orientation measurement from the
   primary core orientation system and validates the received core orientation
   measurement against a correlating core orientation measurement determined from
   at least one measurement unit forming part of the validating core orientation
   system.
2. A core orientation validation system comprising:
       a primary core orientation system attached to a core barrel; and
       a validating core orientation system
   where when the validating core orientation system makes a physical connection
   with the primary core orientation system prior to breaking of the core, the validating
   core orientation system requests a current core orientation measurement from the
   primary core orientation system and validates the received core orientation
   measurement against a correlating core orientation measurement determined from
   at least one measurement unit forming part of the validating core orientation
   system.
3. A core orientation validation system according to claim 1 or claim 2 where the at
   least one measurement unit is one or more of the following: a gyroscope, tri-axial
   accelerometers, tri-axial magnetometers.
4. A core orientation validation system according to any preceding claim, where the
   validating core orientation system forms part of an overshot assembly.
5. A core orientation validation system according to any one of claims 2 to 4, as
   dependent on claim 2, where the primary core orientation system is mechanically
   locked in place relative to the validating core orientation system when physical
   connection therebetween is established.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
