                                        ABSTRACT
The invention provides systems for characterizing a biological sample by analyzing emission
of fluorescent light from the biological sample upon excitation and methods for using the
same. The system includes a laser source, collection fibers, a demultiplexer and an optical
delay device.

1002215432
     TIME-RESOLVED LASER-INDUCED FLUORESCENCE SPECTROSCOPY
                              SYSTEMS AND USES THEREOF
            This application is a divisional of AU 2014232480, the entire contents of which
are incorporated herein by reference.
GOVERNMENT RIGHTS
[00011      The invention was made with government support under Grant No. NS060685
awarded by the National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. The government
has certain rights to the invention.
FIELD OF INVENTION
[00021      The present invention relates generally to techniques for characterizing biological
materials by analyzing laser-induced light emissions from labeled or unlabeled biomolecules.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002a]         Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction
or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant,
and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
[00031      All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety as though
fully set forth. Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. Allen et al., Remington: The Science and Practiceof Pharmacy 2 2 "" ed.,
Pharmaceutical Press (September 15, 2012); Hornyak et al., Introduction to Nanoscience and
Nanotechnology, CRC Press (2008); Singleton and Sainsbury, Dictionary of Microbiology
and Molecular Biology 3'' ed., revised ed., J. Wiley & Sons (New York, NY 2006); Smith,
March'sAdvanced Organic Chemistry Reactions, Mechanisms and Structure 7 th ed., J. Wiley
& Sons (New York, NY 2013); Singleton, Dictionary of DNA and Genome Technology 3 ",
ed., Wiley-Blackwell (November 28, 2012); and Green and Sambrook, Molecular Cloning: A
LaboratoryManual 4th ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (Cold Spring Harbor, NY
2012), provide one skilled in the art with a general guide to many of the terms used in the
present application. For references on how to prepare antibodies, see Greenfield, Antibodies
A Laboratory Manual 2"" ed., Cold Spring Harbor Press (Cold Spring Harbor NY, 2013);
                                                 1

1002215432
K6hler and Milstein, Derivation of specific antibody-producingtissue culture and tumor lines
by cell fusion, Eur. J. Immunol. 1976 Jul, 6(7):511-9; Queen and Selick, Humanized
immunoglobulins, U. S. Patent No. 5,585,089 (1996 Dec); and Riechmann et al., Reshaping
human antibodiesfortherapy, Nature 1988 Mar 24, 332(6162):323-7.
[00041     Laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy (LIFS) has been extensively applied to
complex biological systems to diagnose diseases, such as tumors or atherosclerotic plaques,
                                              1A

and to analyze chemical or biochemical composition of organic matters. The benefit of LIFS
includes its noninvasive approach to obtain both qualitative and quantitative information of a
biological system in vivo.     Additional advantages of LIFS include wavelength tunability,
narrow bandwidth excitation, directivity and short pulses excitation. Furthermore, LIFS can
selectively and efficiently excite the fluorophores in organic matter and greatly improve the
fluorescence selectivity and detectability.
[0005]      Time-resolved techniques allow real-time evolution of the laser-induced emission
to be directly recorded which was made possible by the availability of short (nanoseconds)
and ultra-short (picoseconds) pulsed lasers, as well as advances in high-speed electronics.
Because the light emission process occurs in a very short time interval after the stimulating
event (e.g., fluorescence decay time is in the order of nanoseconds), the time-resolved
measurement can provide information about molecular species and protein structures of the
sample. For example, the time-resolved techniques permit "early" processes (typically the
direct excitation of short-lived states or very rapid subsequent reactions) and "late" processes
(typically from long-lived states, delayed excitation by persisting electron populations or by
reactions which follow the original electron process) to be "separated" in the measured data.
[0006]      The time-resolved measurement only obtains an integrated effect from a wide
range of wavelengths and can be complemented by spectral information in the laser-induced
emission to reveal additional characteristics of a sample.        To resolve the laser-induced
emission into component wavelengths while still being able to perform time-resolved
measurement, some existing LIFS techniques use a scanning monochromator to select
wavelengths from the broadband emission one wavelength at a time, and to direct the
selected wavelength component to the photodetector.             However, to resolve another
wavelength from the emission spectrum, the sample has to be excited again to produce
another reemission, while the monochromator is tuned to select the new wavelength.
[0007]      These existing techniques can take a significant amount of time to resolve
multiple spectral components from a wide band light emission. Although each wavelength
component can be recorded in real-time, the transition time of using a monochromator to
select another wavelength can take up to a few seconds, which becomes the limiting factor in
performing real-time measurements. Furthermore, an overall measurement can take a large
amount of time if a large number of stimulation locations on the sample have to be measured.
Hence, there is a need for systems and methods that facilitates near real-time recording of
                                                 2

both time-resolved and wavelength-resolved information from a light emission caused by a
single excitation of a sample.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00081      The invention provides a system that characterizes a biological sample by
analyzing light emissions from the biological sample in response to an excitation signal. The
system first radiates the biological sample with a laser impulse to cause the biological sample
to produce a responsive light emission. The system then uses a wavelength-splitting device
to split the responsive light emission into a set of spectral bands of different central
wavelengths. Temporal delays are then applied to the set of spectral bands so that each
spectral band arrives at an optical detector at a different time, thereby allowing the optical
detector to temporally resolve the responsive light emission for each spectral band separately.
The delayed spectral bands are then captured by the system within a single detection window
of the optical detector. The captured spectral bands are subsequently processed.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
[0009]      Figure 1 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention,
(A) a schematic of multi-excitation time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy.
BS: beam splitter; FB: fiber bundle; OD: optical density; LPFW: long pass filter wheel; ExF:
excitation   fiber;  CF:    collection fiber;  PMT:     photo  multiplier tube.    (B) trigger
synchronization.
[0010]      Figure 2 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, a schematic of an exemplary demultiplexer design.
[0011]      Figure 3 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, a schematic of the probe.
[0012]      Figure 4 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, fluorescence emissions of various exemplary biomolecules.
[0013]      Figure 5 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, a schematic showing the use of continuous NADH monitoring in an ex-vivo brain
sample.
                                                3

1002215432
[00141      Figure 6 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, data demonstrating capabilities of the TRLIFS apparatus to continuously monitor
the NADH level while the cells are exposed to Rotenone, a compound which interferes with
NADH-dependent ATP production.
[00151      Figure 7 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, (A) the areas observed by the TRLIFS system; (B) the sample from (A) is
overlapped after treatment with TTC; and (C) the fluorescence intensity plotted for each area
(spot).
[00161      Figure 8 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, agar/gel with varying concentrations of methotrexate.
[00171      Figure 9 depicts, in accordance with various embodiments of the present
invention, (A) fluorescence of MTX at varying concentrations after 20 mins exposure to light
with wavelength of 350nm, and (B) plot of the fluorescence time course over 20 mins
indicating increase in the fluorescence of MTX due to formation of active fluorescent form.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0017a]      As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not
intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
[00181      All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety as though
fully set forth. Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. Allen et al., Remington: The Science and Practiceof Pharmacy 2 2 "" ed.,
Pharmaceutical Press (September 15, 2012); Hornyak et al., Introduction to Nanoscience and
Nanotechnology, CRC Press (2008); Singleton and Sainsbury, Dictionary of Microbiology
and Molecular Biology 3'' ed., revised ed., J. Wiley & Sons (New York, NY 2006); Smith,
March'sAdvanced Organic Chemistry Reactions, Mechanisms and Structure 7 th ed., J. Wiley
& Sons (New York, NY 2013); Singleton, Dictionary of DNA and Genome Technology 3 ",
ed., Wiley-Blackwell (November 28, 2012); and Green and Sambrook, Molecular Cloning: A
LaboratoryManual 4th ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (Cold Spring Harbor, NY
2012), provide one skilled in the art with a general guide to many of the terms used in the
                                                4

1002215432
present application. For references on how to prepare antibodies, see Greenfield, Antibodies
A Laboratory Manual 2 "" ed., Cold Spring Harbor Press (Cold Spring Harbor NY, 2013);
K6hler and Milstein, Derivation of specific antibody-producingtissue culture and tumor lines
by cell fusion, Eur. J. Immunol. 1976 Jul, 6(7):511-9; Queen and Selick, Humanized
                                             4A

immunoglobulins, U. S. Patent No. 5,585,089 (1996 Dec); and Riechmann et al., Reshaping
human antibodiesfortherapy, Nature 1988 Mar 24, 332(6162):323-7..
[0019]      The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to
make and use the invention, and is provided in the context of a particular application and its
requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to
those skilled in the art, and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other
embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present
invention. Thus, the present invention is not limited to the embodiments shown, but is to be
accorded the widest scope consistent with the claims.
[0020]      The present invention relates to techniques for characterizing biological materials
by analyzing laser-induced light emissions from biomolecules (labeled or unlabeled). More
specifically, the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for characterizing
biological materials by performing a time-resolved and wavelength-resolved analysis on
laser-induced fluorescence emissions from the biological materials.
[0021]      The system described herein may be used for characterizing various physiological
and disease states, including but not limited to assessing post-injury tissue viability, tumor
and tumor-margin detection, continuous monitoring of cellular metabolism, monitoring blood
plasma to optimize drug therapies. The system can be adapted to various applications/uses,
depending on the substrate/marker being assayed.
THE SYSTEM
[0022]      The excitation source is a pulsed laser 100.       Output pulses from pulsed laser
radiate upon a biological sample at a predetermined wavelength and power level that is
suitable for exciting biological sample 101 without causing damage to the sample.          Pulse
laser is controlled by an internal or external pulse controller device or a digital delay device
or a trigger device 102, which provides precise timing to each laser impulse output. This
precise timing is checked at every pulse using a photodiode and updated using an analog to
digital converter device e.g. NI PCIe-6220. In one embodiment, pulsed laser emits ultraviolet
(UV) light pulses to excite biological sample.       In another embodiment, pulsed laser emits
visible or near infra-red light pulses to excite biological sample.
[0023]      The laser emission from pulsed laser can be coupled/focused into an optical fiber,
and guided to a specific location on biological sample through either the optical fiber 103
                                                  5

(Figure 3) or a lens system. Laser-impulse excitation causes biological sample to produce a
responsive light emission, such as a fluorescence emission, which typically has a wide
spectrum comprising many wavelengths. This laser-induced light emission is then collected
by one or more light-collecting fibers or lenses. In one embodiment of the present invention,
light-collecting fiber is a bundle of multi-mode fibers 103. In another embodiment the light
collecting is achieved using a objective lens.
[0024]      Light-collecting fiber then brings the wide band emission light into a wavelength
splitting device 104 (Figure2), which can comprise one or more wavelength-splitting stages.
The wide band emission light undergoes a series of wavelength splitting processes so that the
wide band signal can be resolved into a number of narrow spectral bands, each with a distinct
central   wavelength.      The   wavelength-resolved   spectral  bands are    coupled  into   a
corresponding delay device 105, which applies a predetermined temporal delay to each
spectral band as it travels towards a photodetector 106.      The temporally-delayed spectral
bands exiting the delay device are arranged onto a fast-response photomultiplier tube so that
the fluorescence decay profile of each wavelength-resolved spectral band including the laser
light can be individually recorded and temporally resolved.       The delays applied to these
spectral bands allow each optical signal to arrive at the multi-channel plate photomultiplier
tube (MCP-PMT) at a different time, which allows the decay profile of each spectral band
detected by the MCP-PMT separately, along with the laser light. In one embodiment, the
output from MCP-PMT can be recorded and displayed using a high-speed digitizer 107. In
another embodiment, the output from MCP-PMT can be recorded and displayed using an
oscilloscope.   In an embodiment, MCP-PMT is a gated, MCP-PMT controlled by a gate
control circuit, so that MCP-PMT only responds to light signals during a narrow detection
window when MCP-PMT is open. In one embodiment, gate control circuit and pulse control
are synchronized so that all the fluorescence decay profiles associated with a single laser
induced excitation may be recorded within a single MCP-PMT detection window.             In an
embodiment, the timing of the MCP-PMT gate opening is synchronized to the laser pulse by
changing the delay between the laser trigger and MCP-PMT gate using a correction based on
the previous delay. The trigger delay in the laser (the delay between the trigger signal and
actual firing of laser light) is recorded using a photodiode.   The measured trigger delay is
used to correct the synchronization between the laser triggering and MCP-PMT gate. Other
photodetectors including but not limited to avalanche photodiodes (APDs), silicon PMT, may
be used instead of or in addition to MCP-PMTs.           The gain of the MCP-PMT can be
                                                6

controlled automatically. In one embodiment of the present invention the MCP-PMT voltage
can be dynamically changed based on the fluorescence signal. In one embodiment of the
present invention the voltage change is determined by analyzing the fluorescence signal and
determining the amount of change prior to recording the signal.
[0025]      The pulsed laser 103 has an inherent delay generating laser light after the unit has
been externally triggered. In an exemplary embodiment, the delay in generating the laser
light after external delay can be up to but not limited to 85 microseconds.         The delay in
triggering the signal henceforth referred to as 'trigger delay' can vary between each pulse of
laser. In order to synchronize the laser light with the opening of the PMT gate, the inventors
use a photodiode to detect the timing of the laser pulse, compare it to the external trigger and
then correct the timing of next trigger based on the last trigger delay (Figure 1B). In Figure
IB, tO is when the laser is triggered, tI is when the laser fires, t2 is when the PMT is triggered
and t3 is when the PMT gate turns on. By enabling this feedback based trigger
synchronization t2 is dynamically set to ensure that the voltage gain on the MCP-PMT is 'on'
when the fluorescent signal reaches the MCP-PMT. The digitizer is triggered 'on' using a
second photodiode to ensure smaller data size.
[0026]      A schematic diagram of the TRLIFS system is depicted in Figure 1. In various
embodiments, the system comprises: (i) excitation fibers (ExF), (ii) collection fibers (CF),
(iii) a demultiplexer (demuxer),        a wavelength     splitting device that provides micro
measurements about the lifetime of the fluorescence signal, (i.e. the exponential decay of the
fluorescence signal), (iv) a photomultiplier tube (MCP-PMT, for example, a high gain (106),
low noise and fast rise time detector (~80 ps) such as Photek 210), (v) an optional
preamplifier to provide additional gain after photomultiplier tube before the signal is
digitized, (vi) a digitizer to digitizes the signal received from the Photomultiplier Tube (for
example at 6.4 G samples/second), in order to perform data analysis (for example, SP
Devices: 108ADQ Tiger), and (vii) a computer system to process and display the signal.
[0027]      The fluorescence signal from the biological tissue can be very high or low based
on the fluorophore in the biological system. The fluorophore emits fluorescence emission
intensity based on the quantum efficiency and/or absorption of excitation light which may be
blocked due to certain conditions such as the type of sample (for example, tissue, blood,
plasma).   In order to properly record the fluorescence spectra, the PMT gain needs to be
adjusted such that the increased fluorescence emission does not cause saturation of the signal
                                                 7

and low fluorescence emission does not lead to very low signal to noise ratio. This can be
achieved by rapidly changing the voltage across the MCP-PMT based on the previously
recorded data. In one embodiment, fluorescence light from two pulses of laser is averaged
and analyzed (for example, using software) to determine whether the fluorescence signal is
too high or too low, after which the voltage across the MCP-PMT (responsible for controlling
the gain of PMT) is changed via communicating between the high voltage power supply and
the computer. In case the fluorescence emission is too high the voltage is reduced and vice a
versa iteratively till the correct amount of signal to noise ratio is achieved. The true signal is
saved and analyzed only after the correct SNR is achieved.
[0028]      In some embodiments, the excitation fiber (for example, a 600 gm diameter with
0.12 NA, UV grade silica core fiber) connects the laser source to the sample so as to excite
the sample at a desired wavelength. The collection fibers (for example 12 fibers of 200 gm
diameter with 0.22 NA, UV grade silica core fiber) are packaged into a single bundle; this
bundle leads to the demultiplexer (Figure 3). The 12 fibers can be combined into a single
fiber   using    a   technique    of  combining     multi-mode     fibers  in   a  single   fiber.
(http://www.ofsoptics.com/). Upon excitation of the sample with a laser at a pre-determined
wavelength, the collection fibers collect the fluorescence signal from the sample, and relay
the signal to the demultiplexer. Various wavelength-splitting filters in the demultiplexer split
the incoming signal based on the wavelengths of the beam splitting devices such as but not
limited to filters or prisms etc.    The fluorescence signal pulse (after pulsed excitation) is
relayed to the computer system via the photomultiplier tube, the preamplifier and the
digitizer, where the fluorescence decay is calculated by deconvolving the (previously
recorded) laser pulse from the recorded fluorescence pulse.
WAVELENGTH SPLITTING DEVICE
[0029]      Figure 2 show schematics of wavelength splitting devices (demultiplexers,
demuxers).    Laser-induced light emission signal (containing a wide range of wavelengths)
from the biological sample is collected by a light-collecting fiber, which brings the emitted
signal towards wavelength-splitting device.
[0030]      In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, the biological sample is excited at
wavelengths of about 337-350 nm.          In an embodiment, the wavelength splitting device
(demultiplexer) depicted in Figures 1 and 2 splits the incoming signal at wavelengths of: less
than 365nm (excitation wavelength), 365-410nm, 410-450nm, 450-480nm, 500-550nm, 550
                                                8

600nm, and greater than 600nm. As shown in Figure 1, the incoming light signal is directed
onto the first beam splitting device of wavelength-splitting device which splits the incoming
signal at wavelengths of greater than about 495nm and less than about 495nm. After passing
through the first beam splitting device, the signal with the wavelength of greater than 495nm
is focused using a 60mm focal length biconcave lens and then passes through a second beam
splitting device that splits the signal at wavelengths of 500-560nm and greater than 560nm,
finally the third beam splitter splits the light in 560-600nm and greater than 600nm. The
signal with wavelength of less than 495nm also pass through a 60mm focal length biconcave
lens a is focused before passing via the fourth beam splitting device that splits the 495nm
light signal to wavelengths of about 410-480nm and less than 410nm. The light signal with
the wavelength of 410- 450nm pass through a fifth beam splitting device that splits the signal
to wavelengths of about 415-450nm and 450-495nm. The light signals from wavelength less
than 410nm goes through a sixth beam splitter and is split in wavelengths 365-410nm and
less than 365nm wavelength, which contains the laser excitation signal. By recording the
laser simultaneously with the fluorescence, it is possible to ensure accurate deconvolution.
This demultiplexer design allows detection of biomolecules including but not limited to
flavin mononucleotide (FMN) riboflavin, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) riboflavin,
lipopigments, endogenous porphyrin as well as fluorescence of molecules such as NADH and
PLP-GAD in the incoming signals. Beam splitting device described herein can be but is not
limited to a dichroic filter, prism, and diffraction grating.
[00311      In another exemplary embodiment of the invention, the biological sample is
excited at wavelengths of about 337-350nm. In this embodiment, the wavelength splitting
device splits the incoming signal at wavelengths of: less than 400nm, 415-450nm, 455
480nm, 400-600nm and greater than 500nm. Upon exiting light-collection fiber and before
entering wavelength splitting device, the emitted light is first collimated using a collimating
lens. Collimating lens can include, but is not limited to, a Gradient Index (GRIN) lens, or an
aspheric lens. The collimated light beam is directed onto the first beam splitting device of
wavelength-splitting device which splits the incoming signal at wavelengths of greater than
about 400nm and less than about 400nm.            After passing through the first beam splitting
device, the signal with the wavelength of greater than 400nm passes through a second beam
splitting device that splits the signal at wavelengths of 400-500nm and greater than 500nm.
The signal with wavelength in the range of 400-500nm passes through a third beam splitting
device that splits the light signal to wavelengths of about greater than 450nm and less than
                                                  9

450nm. In various embodiments, signal with wavelengths of less than 450nm are analyzed
for activities of biomolecules. These wavelengths are important for measuring biomolecules
including but not limited to free and bound forms of NADH, PLP-GAD or combinations
thereof.
[0032]       By changing the configuration of beam splitting devices spectral bands of various
wavelengths may be detected. Other wavelength bands can be achieved using different sets of
filters which will be apparent to the person of skill in the art.
TEMPORAL DELAY OPTICAL DEVICE
[00331       As shown    in Figure     1, each    resolved wavelength      component     from the
wavelength-splitting device is coupled to a corresponding delay device and subsequently
undergoes a predetermined amount of delay in the corresponding delay device. In various
embodiments, the delay devices are optical fibers with different lengths LI, L2, L3, L4 and
so on. In a specific embodiment, the lengths of the optical fibers may be about 5ft, 55ft,
115ft, 165ft, 215ft, 265ft and 315ft. Other lengths of optical fibers may be selected based on
the required delay which will be apparent to the person of skill in the art. To temporally
separate each of the wavelength components at the same optical detector, each of the
wavelength component travels through a different length of optical fiber, and thereby
experiences a different amount of delay.       Eventually, each of the wavelength components
arrives at the optical detector at different time which enables each component to be detected
separately.
[0034]       In addition to the length of the optical fiber, other physical properties of the
optical fiber, including, but is not limited to, the refractive index of the fiber are also used to
determine the length of the fiber to achieve a specified amount of delay. Since in the time
domain, each spectral component has a decay profile that lasts for a specific amount of time
(e.g., tens of nanoseconds), the temporal delay between two adjacent spectral components can
be designed to be sufficiently long to temporally separate the two decay profiles.
[0035]       In one embodiment of the present invention, the optical detector is a gated MCP
MCP-PMT which only responds to incoming light signals within a short detection window
controlled by a gate control circuit. This gated window can be designed to be sufficiently
long so that all the resolved and temporally separated wavelength components will arrive at
the MCP-PMT within the gated window.              Hence, the gated MCP-PMT can capture all
                                                 10

wavelength components which are caused by a single laser induced-emission within one
detecting window.      The delay device which is used to temporally separate the resolved
spectral bands is not limited to optical fibers, and any delay device can generally be used.
[00361       In various embodiments, the sample is a solid, semi-solid or liquid biological
sample.    In various embodiments, the sample is any one or more of blood, plasma, urine,
tissue, microorganisms, parasites, sputum, vomit, cerebrospinal fluid or any other biological
sample from which the chemical signature can be detected.
[0037]       In various embodiments, tissue can be any one or more of prostate, lung, kidney,
brain, mucosa, skin, liver, GI tract, colon, bladder, muscle, breast and/or cervix.
[00381       The system described herein may be used to detect any molecule that has a
detectable (for example, emitted) signature. In some embodiments, the emitted signature is a
fluorescent emission. In some embodiments, the signature is fluorescence emission decay.
[00391       The demultiplexer design described herein allows detection of, for example,
therapeutic agents (labeled or unlabeled), antibodies (labeled or unlableled), toxin (labeled or
unlabeled), endotoxins (labeled or unlabeled), exotoxins (labeled or unlabeled), tumor
markers and/or a combination thereof. In various embodiments, unlabeled biomolecules have
intrinsic fluorescence.
[0040]       The system described herein allows detection of biomolecules including but not
limited to flavin mononucleotide (FMN) riboflavin, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)
riboflavin, lipopigments, endogenous porphyrin as well as fluorescence of molecules such as
NADH and PLP-GAD in the incoming signals.
[0041]       In various embodiments, the therapeutic agents include chemotherapeutic agents.
Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include but not limited to Albumin-bound paclitaxel
(nab-paclitaxel), Actinomycin, Alitretinoin, All-trans retinoic acid, Azacitidine, Azathioprine,
Bevacizumab, Bexatotene, Bleomycin, Bortezomib, Carboplatin, Capecitabine, Cetuximab,
Cisplatin,    Chlorambucil,    Cyclophosphamide,       Cytarabine,    Daunorubicin,   Docetaxel,
Doxifluridine, Doxorubicin, Epirubicin, Epothilone,         Erlotinib, Etoposide, Fluorouracil,
Gefitinib,    Gemcitabine,   Hydroxyurea,      Idarubicin,  Imatinib,   Ipilimumab,   Irinotecan,
Mechlorethamine, Melphalan, Mercaptopurine, Methotrexate, Mitoxantrone, Ocrelizumab,
Ofatumumab, Oxaliplatin, Paclitaxel, Panitumab, Pemetrexed, Rituximab, Tafluposide,
Teniposide,     Tioguanine, Topotecan,      Tretinoin, Valrubicin, Vemurafenib,      Vinblastine,
                                                 11

Vincristine, Vindesine, Vinorelbine, Vorinostat, Romidepsin, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), 6
mercaptopurine (6-MP), Cladribine, Clofarabine, Floxuridine, Fludarabine, Pentostatin,
Mitomycin, ixabepilone, Estramustine, or a combination thereof       As described herein, the
chemotherapeutic agents may be labeled or unlableled (for example, agents having intrinsic
fluorescence).    In some embodiments, the label is a fluorescent label.          Examples of
fluorescent labels that may be used with the systems, apparatus and methods described herein
to label the therapeutic agents include but are not limited to indocyanine green (ICG),
curcumin, rhodamine (such as rhodamine B, rhodamine 123, rhodamine 6G or variants
thereof), green fluorescent protein (GFP), luciferin, fluorescein, quantum dots or a
combination thereof.
[0042]      In various embodiments, antibodies, including therapeutic antibodies include but
are not limited to 3F8,        8H9, Abagovomab,      Abciximab,    Actoxumab, Adalimumab,
Adecatumumab, Aducanumab, Afelimomab, Afutuzumab, Alacizumab pegol, ALD518,
Alemtuzumab, Alirocumab, Altumomab pentetate, Amatuximab, Anatumomab mafenatox,
Anifrolumab,     Anrukinzumab,     Apolizumab,     Arcitumomab,      Aselizumab,     Atinumab,
Atlizumab,    Atorolimumab,     Bapineuzumab,     Basiliximab,   Bavituximab,     Bectumomab,
Belimumab, Benralizumab, Bertilimumab, Besilesomab, Bevacizumab,               Bezlotoxumab,
Biciromab,     Bimagrumab,      Bivatuzumab     mertansine,    Blinatumomab,       Blosozumab,
Brentuximab vedotin, Briakinumab, Brodalumab, Canakinumab, Cantuzumab mertansine,
Cantuzumab ravtansine, Caplacizumab, Capromab pendetide, Carlumab, Catumaxomab,
cBR96-doxorubicin       immunoconjugate,   Cedelizumab,    Certolizumab    pegol,   Cetuximab,
Citatuzumab bogatox, Cixutumumab, Clazakizumab, Clenoliximab, Clivatuzumab tetraxetan,
Conatumumab,       Concizumab,   Crenezumab,     Dacetuzumab,     Daclizumab,    Dalotuzumab,
Daratumumab, Demcizumab, Denosumab, Detumomab, Dorlimomab aritox, Drozitumab,
Duligotumab,     Dupilumab,     Dusigitumab,    Ecromeximab,      Eculizumab,     Edobacomab,
Edrecolomab,       Efalizumab,    Efungumab,      Eldelumab,     Elotuzumab,      Elsilimomab,
Enavatuzumab, Enlimomab pegol, Enokizumab, Enoticumab, Ensituximab, Epitumomab
cituxetan, Epratuzumab, Erlizumab, Ertumaxomab, Etaracizumab, Etrolizumab, Evolocumab,
Exbivirumab, Fanolesomab, Faralimomab, Farletuzumab, Fasinumab, FBTA05, Felvizumab,
Fezakinumab,     Ficlatuzumab,   Figitumumab,     Flanvotumab,     Fontolizumab,    Foralumab,
Foravirumab,      Fresolimumab,     Fulranumab,      Futuximab,     Galiximab,      Ganitumab,
Gantenerumab,     Gavilimomab,    Gemtuzumab     ozogamicin,    Gevokizumab,    Girentuximab,
Glembatumumab vedotin, Golimumab, Gomiliximab, Guselkumab, Ibalizumab, Ibritumomab
                                              12

tiuxetan,  Icrucumab,      Igovomab,     IMAB362,        Imciromab,    Imgatuzumab,      Inclacumab,
Indatuximab ravtansine, Infliximab, Inolimomab, Inotuzumab ozogamicin, Intetumumab,
Ipilimumab,      Iratumumab,       Itolizumab,        Ixekizumab,      Keliximab,      Labetuzumab,
Lambrolizumab,         Lampalizumab,        Lebrikizumab,         Lemalesomab,        Lerdelimumab,
Lexatumumab,       Libivirumab,      Ligelizumab,       Lintuzumab,     Lirilumab,    Lodelcizumab,
Lorvotuzumab mertansine, Lucatumumab, Lumiliximab, Mapatumumab, Margetuximab,
Maslimomab, Matuzumab,          Mavrilimumab,       Mepolizumab, Metelimumab,          Milatuzumab,
Minretumomab,         Mitumomab,         Mogamulizumab,           Morolimumab,         Motavizumab,
Moxetumomab         pasudotox,    Muromonab-CD3,            Nacolomab      tafenatox,    Namilumab,
Naptumomab        estafenatox,   Narnatumab,        Natalizumab,     Nebacumab,       Necitumumab,
Nerelimomab,      Nesvacumab,       Nimotuzumab,         Nivolumab,     Nofetumomab       merpentan,
Ocaratuzumab,      Ocrelizumab,     Odulimomab,         Ofatumumab,     Olaratumab,      Olokizumab,
Omalizumab, Onartuzumab, Ontuxizumab, Oportuzumab monatox, Oregovomab, Orticumab,
Otelixizumab,     Otlertuzumab,     Oxelumab,       Ozanezumab,      Ozoralizumab,      Pagibaximab,
Palivizumab,    Panitumumab,      Pankomab,      Panobacumab,       Parsatuzumab,      Pascolizumab,
Pateclizumab,     Patritumab,    Pemtumomab,           Perakizumab,    Pertuzumab,      Pexelizumab,
Pidilizumab,   Pinatuzumab      vedotin, Pintumomab,          Placulumab,     Polatuzumab    vedotin,
Ponezumab, Priliximab, Pritoxaximab, Pritumumab, PRO 140, Quilizumab, Racotumomab,
Radretumab,    Rafivirumab,     Ramucirumab,        Ranibizumab,     Raxibacumab,      Regavirumab,
Reslizumab,    Rilotumumab,       Rituximab,      Robatumumab,       Roledumab,       Romosozumab,
Rontalizumab, Rovelizumab, Ruplizumab, Samalizumab, Sarilumab, Satumomab pendetide,
Secukinumab,      Seribantumab,     Setoxaximab,        Sevirumab,   SGN-CD19A,        SGN-CD33A,
Sibrotuzumab,       Sifalimumab,      Siltuximab,        Simtuzumab,     Siplizumab,      Sirukumab,
Solanezumab, Solitomab, Sonepcizumab, Sontuzumab, Stamulumab, Sulesomab, Suvizumab,
Tabalumab, Tacatuzumab tetraxetan, Tadocizumab, Talizumab, Tanezumab, Taplitumomab
paptox,   Tefibazumab,      Telimomab      aritox,    Tenatumomab,      Teneliximab,     Teplizumab,
Teprotumumab,      TGN1412, Ticilimumab (tremelimumab), Tigatuzumab Tildrakizumab,
TNX-650,      Tocilizumab       (atlizumab),       Toralizumab,,      Tositumomab,       Tovetumab,
Tralokinumab,      Trastuzumab,     TRBS07,      Tregalizumab,      Tremelimumab,       Tucotuzumab
celmoleukin,     Tuvirumab,      Ublituximab,         Urelumab,     Urtoxazumab,       Ustekinumab,
Vantictumab,    Vapaliximab,      Vatelizumab,      Vedolizumab,      Veltuzumab,     Vepalimomab,
Vesencumab,       Visilizumab,    Volociximab,         Vorsetuzumab      mafodotin,     Votumumab,
Zalutumumab, Zanolimumab, Zatuximab, Ziralimumab, Zolimomab aritox.                     As described
herein, the antibodies may be labeled or unlabeled.           In some embodiments, the label is a
                                                   13

fluorescent label.    Examples of fluorescent labels that may be used with the systems,
apparatus and methods described herein to label the therapeutic agents include but are not
limited to indocyanine green (ICG), curcumin, rhodamine (such as rhodamine B, rhodamine
123,   rhodamine 6G or variants thereof), green fluorescent protein (GFP), luciferin,
fluorescein, quantum dots or a combination thereof.
[0043]      In various embodiments, toxins include but are not limited to alpha toxin, anthrax
toxin, bacterial toxin, diphtheria toxin, exotoxin, pertussis toxin, shiga toxin, shiga-like toxin,
heat-stable enterotoxins, channel forming toxins, mycotoxins, cholera toxin, scorpion venom,
cholorotoxin and/or tetanus toxins.       As described herein, the toxins may be labeled or
unlabeled. In some embodiments, the label is a fluorescent label. Examples of fluorescent
labels that may be used with the systems, apparatus and methods described herein to label the
therapeutic agents include but are not limited to indocyanine green (ICG), curcumin,
rhodamine (such as rhodamine B, rhodamine 123, rhodamine 6G or variants thereof), green
fluorescent protein (GFP), luciferin, fluorescein, quantum dots or a combination thereof.
[0044]      In some embodiments, proteins (for example, cell surface proteins) may be
detected using the system described herein. In some embodiments, the proteins may be
detected using antibodies (for example, labeled or unlabeled antibodies) that bind to the cell
surface markers. In some embodiments, the proteins may be detected using siRNAs (for
example, labeled or unlabeled siRNAs) that bind to the proteins of interest. Examples of
proteins that may be detected using the system described herein include but are not limited to
4-1BB, 5T4, adenocarcinoma antigen, alpha-fetoprotein, annexin (for example, annexins Al,
A2, A5), BAFF, B-lymphoma cell, C242 antigen, CA-125, carbonic anhydrase 9 (CA-IX), C
MET, CCR4, CD152, CD19, CD20, CD200, CD22, CD221, CD23 (IgE receptor), CD28,
CD30 (TNFRSF8), CD33, CD4, CD40, CD44 v6, CD51, CD52, CD56, CD74, CD80, CEA,
CNTO888, CTLA-4, DR5, EGFR, EpCAM, CD3, FAP, fibronectin extra domain-B, folate
receptor 1, GD2, GD3 ganglioside, glycoprotein 75, GPNMB, HER2/neu, HGF, human
scatter factor receptor kinase, IGF-i receptor, IGF-I, IgGi, Li-CAM, IL-13, IL-6, insulin
like growth factor I receptor, integrin a531, integrin av33, MORAb-009, MS4AI, MUC1,
mucin     CanAg,      N-glycolylneuraminic      acid,    NPC-IC,       PDGF-R       a,    PDL192,
phosphatidylserine, prostatic carcinoma cells, RANKL, RON, RORi, SCH 900105, SDCi,
SLAMF7, TAG-72, tenascin C, TGF beta 2, TGF-3, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, tumor antigen
CTAA16.88, VEGF-A, VEGFR-1, VEGFR2 or vimentin. Additional examples include buy
are not limited to AOC3 (VAP-1), CAM-3001, CCL I1 (eotaxin-1), CD125, CD147 (basigin),
                                                14

CD154 (CD40L), CD2, CD20, CD23 (IgE receptor), CD25 (a chain of IL-2 receptor), CD3,
CD4, CD5, IFN-a, IFN-y, IgE, IgE Fc region, IL-I, IL-12, IL-23, IL-13, IL-17, IL-17A, IL
22, IL-4, IL-5, IL-5, IL-6, IL-6 receptor, integrin a4, integrin a407, Lama glama, LFA-1
(CD1 1a), MEDI-528, myostatin, OX-40, rhuMAb 37, scleroscin, SOST, TGF beta 1, TNF-a,
VEGF-A, beta amyloid, MABT5102A, L-1j,            CD3, C5, cardiac myosin, CD41 (integrin
alpha-Ib), fibrin II, beta chain, ITGB2 (CD18), sphingosine- 1-phosphate, anthrax toxin,
CCR5,     CD4, clumping factor A,       cytomegalovirus,   cytomegalovirus   glycoprotein B,
endotoxin, Escherichia coli proteins, hepatitis B surface antigen, hepatitis B virus, HIV-1,
Hsp90, Influenza A hemagglutinin, lipoteichoic acid, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, rabies virus
glycoprotein, respiratory syncytial virus, TNF-a, Lewis Y and CEA antigens, Tag72, folate
binding protein or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the proteins are labeled. In
some embodiments, the label is a fluorescent label. Examples of fluorescent labels that may
be used with the systems, apparatus and methods described herein to label the therapeutic
agents include but are not limited to indocyanine green (ICG), curcumin, rhodamine (such as
rhodamine B, rhodamine 123, rhodamine 6G or variants thereof), green fluorescent protein
(GFP), luciferin, fluorescein, quantum dots or a combination thereof.
METHODS
[0045]      Based on the combination of the excitation wavelengths and the wavelength
splitting beam splitting devices in the demuxer, fluorescence of various molecules may be
assayed (Figure 4). For example, with excitation of the sample at wavelength of 350nm and
appropriate wavelength-splitting beam splitting devices in the demuxer, fluorescence of
biomolecules including but not limited to         PLG-GAD (pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)
glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)), bound NADH and free NADH, may be assayed. Or, at
an excitation of the sample at wavelength of 440nm and appropriate wavelength-splitting
beam splitting devices in the demuxer, fluorescence of biomolecules such as FAD (flavin
adenine dinucleotide), FMN (flavin mononucleotide) and porphyrins can be assayed.
[0046] The invention provides methods for determining tissue viability after injury in a
subject in need thereof, using the TRLIFS system described herein.      The method includes
using the system described herein to measure the fluorescence emitted from biomolecules
(for example, NADH redox state) wherein an alteration in the fluorescence signal is
indicative of tissue viability. In some embodiments, an alteration in the fluorescence signal
of biomolecules is an increase in the fluorescence signal from biomolecules in the subject
                                              15

relative to the control (normal) subject.      In some embodiments, an alteration in the
fluorescence signal of biomolecules is a decrease in the fluorescence signal from
biomolecules in the subject relative to the control (normal) subject. In an embodiment, an
alteration in NADH redox state is indicative of tissue viability.     In one embodiment, an
increase in NADH fluorescence in a subject is indicative of NADH accumulation and poor
tissue viability.
[0047]      The invention also provides methods for monitoring cellular metabolism in a
subject in need thereof, using the system described herein. The method includes using the
TRLIFS system described herein to measure the fluorescence emitted from biomolecules (for
example, NADH redox state) wherein an alteration in the fluorescence signal is indicative of
cellular metabolism.   In some embodiments, an alteration in the fluorescence signal of
biomolecules is an increase in the fluorescence signal from biomolecules in the subject
relative to the control (normal) subject.      In some embodiments, an alteration in the
fluorescence signal of biomolecules is a decrease in the fluorescence signal from
biomolecules in the subject relative to the control (normal) subject.      In an embodiment,
NADH fluorescence may be used to monitor cellular metabolism. Cellular metabolism may
be monitored continuously or periodically. In various embodiments, continuous monitoring
of cellular metabolism allows, for example, assessment of viability and vulnerability of cells
in ischemic condition, effects of drugs (for example, during drug development or for
optimizing therapeutic windows) on cellular metabolism and/or simultaneous monitoring pH
and oxygen levels to determine the metabolic state of the cell.
[0048]      As described herein, the invention also provides methods for tumor detections
using TRLIFS systems described herein.
EXAMPLES
Example 1
Continuous monitoring of cellular metabolism
[0049]      The systems described herein allow continuous monitoring of the changes in the
NADH level at very minute scales to determine changes in metabolic status in response to
oxygen depletion, effect of neuro-protective drugs etc. (Figures 1 and 5).
                                              16

[00501      Nicotinamide adenosine dinucleotide (NADH) is involved in redox reaction for
ATP production in aerobic respiration.         NADH is produced in mitochondrion during
glycolysis and citric acid (TCA) cycle. NADH is oxidized to NAD+ at the mitochondrial
membrane producing ATP in the process. This process is disrupted in conditions including
but not limited to ischemia due to stroke. In a low oxygen condition, NADH accumulates in
the cell, and persistent oxygen depletion may result in cell death, leading to complete
breakdown of NADH.         These variations in NADH level allow assessment of viability and
vulnerability of cells in ischemic condition. Fluctuations in NADH levels may be evaluated
by measuring the fluorescence emission from NADH. NAD+ and NADH both have a strong
absorption in UV spectrum, but they differ in their fluorescence characteristics. NADH
demonstrates strong fluorescence in the violet/blue band around 440/460 nm of wavelength
depending of its bound (to cytochrome) versus free state. Measuring this fluorescence in real
time allows monitoring of changes in the NADH level, assessing the metabolic status of
NADH, thereby monitoring cellular metabolism.
[0051]      In order to excite the tissue, a Q-switched Nd:YaG laser emitting at a wavelength
of 350 nm was used, running at 1 KHz with a pulse width (FWHM) of 400 ps (Teem
Photonics PNVM025 10). Total energy per pulse did not exceed 5 gJ which prevented photo
bleaching of NADH. The excitation light was delivered to the tissue using a custom made
trifurcated optical probe. The probe consisted of a central 600 micron fiber for delivering the
excitation light surrounded by twelve 200 micron fibers to collect the fluorescence (Figure 3).
Every other fiber from the twelve collection fibers were bundled together forming two
channels. One collection channel/bundle connected to a spectrometer (Ocean Optics, Maya),
which measured the fluorescence spectrum every 100ms and the other channel/bundle
connected to a beam splitter (demultiplexer). The beam splitter at 452nm of wavelength
separated the significant free and bound fluorescence, which was recorded both by MCP
PMT and spectrometer.
[0052]      Rabbit brain was removed after sacrificing the animal in the OR and transported
in cold oxygen rich Kreb-ringer solution to the laboratory. The cortex was separated and
placed in Kreb-Ringer solution with continuous bubbling of the 95% 02 and 5% CO 2 mixture
to keep the tissue alive.     The probe was adjusted on the tissue in order to record the
fluorescence as shown in Figure 5. A baseline NADH (bound and free) was recorded till the
fluorescence from the tissue equilibrated and plateaued.      After approximately 30 mins, a
                                                17

measured dose of 50 nM rotenone, which blocks the binding of NADH to cytochrome in the
mitochondrion, was added. Additional concentrations of rotenone were added every 10 mins.
[0053]      The effect of various concentrations of Rotenone on the rabbit brain tissue was
recorded (Figure 6).    The results showed that the concentrations of both free and bound
NADH can be mapped in real-time (every ~100 ms) and response to the external stimuli was
recorded. Figure 6 shows a continuous plot of NADH fluorescence level over a period of
more than 2 hours.     On adding the 50 nM concentration of Rotenone to the solution, an
increase in NADH level was observed as expected due to blocking on NADH consumption
and subsequent accumulation.        As the concentration of Rotenone increased the NADH
fluorescence increased as expected.       At 80 mins time, the gas which was continuously
bubbling through the liquid was stopped and then restarted allowing assessment of the effect
of hypoxia on accumulation of NADH in the tissue and its subsequent consumption once the
oxygen supply was restored. This demonstrated the ability of TRLIFS system described
herein to monitor the metabolic state in realtime.
Example 2
Determiningtissue viability after injury
[0054]      Recording the NADH levels over a large area of brain after an ischemic stroke
permits assessment of the number of viable cells that may be in shock due to lack of oxygen,
but may not have undergone apoptosis and thus are salvageable. These cell form the bulk of
the region known as the penumbra and an important goal of stroke treatment is to reduce the
size of penumbra while salvaging as many neurons as possible. Monitoring NADH over the
entire penumbra region allows assessment of the effectiveness of various interventions
designed for the same.
[0055]      In order to excite the tissue, a Q-switched Nd:YaG laser emitting at a wavelength
350 nm was used, running at 1 KHz with a pulse width (FWHM) of 400 ps (Teem Photonics
PNVM025 10). Total energy per pulse did not exceed 5 gJ which prevented photo-bleaching
of NADH. The excitation light was delivered to the tissue using a custom made trifurcated
optical probe. The probe consisted of a central 600 micron fiber for delivering the excitation
light surrounded by twelve 200 micron fibers to collect the fluorescence.    Every other fiber
from the twelve collection fibers were bundled together forming two channels. One collection
channel/bundle connected to a spectrometer (Ocean Optics, Maya), which measured the
                                                18

fluorescence spectrum every 100 ms and the other channel/bundle connected to a beam
splitter (demultiplexer).
[0056]       A rabbit brain stroke model was used in which a stroke was caused in the rabbit
brain by injecting a clot in the cerebral artery. The rabbit was sacrificed after testing for
neurological damage. The brain was removed and transported to the laboratory in cold 02
saturated Kreb-Ringer Solution. In the laboratory, the infarcted cortex was separated from
rest of the brain and placed in the Kreb-Ringer solution with bubbling 95% 02 and       5%  CO 2
mixture. A single reading was recorded from the edge of the cortex and the probe was moved
over the surface of the cortex as shown in Figure 7. The fluorescence intensity was recorded
from the tissue sample. The tissue sample was submerged in the solution of TTC (2,3,5
triphenyl tetrazolium) which when taken up by the viable cells turns the cell red. TTC is
currently a gold standard for testing the viability of cells. TTC stained tissue was compared to
the recorded fluorescence intensity.
[0057]       A smooth gradient in NADH auto-fluorescence from healthy tissue (red stained
area in Figure 7) to the dead tissue (unstained area in Figure 7) was observed. We also noted
that instead of an abrupt change from the viable to dead brain tissue as seen with TTC
staining the fluorescence intensity (figure 7) changed gradually, indicating presence of viable
cells in the region indicated as dead.
Example 3
Use of Fluorescenceto Determine the Level ofDrug/Metabolitein Plasma
[0058] Some anticancer drugs are toxic at high dosages and lose their efficacy at lower
dosages. This optimal plasma concentration of the drug at which the drug is most effective
(therapeutic window) varies amongst patients due to variation in height, weight, metabolism
and ethnicity. In spite of these variations, currently the drug dosages are calculated based on
the weight of the patient and a standardized pharmacokinetic profile.              A quick and
inexpensive method to determine the plasma drug level allows optimization of dosages for
individual patients. The plasma level of drugs may be detected using fluorescence
spectroscopy. It is known that some of the anticancer drugs such as methotrexate have
fluorescent properties.    Herein Applicants show that using the TRLIFS systems described
herein, varying the concentrations of methotrexate (MTX) in agar (Figure 8) resulted in
corresponding change in fluorescence of MTX.
                                                19

[00591       In order to excite the agar gel, a Q-switched Nd:YaG laser emitting at wavelength
of 350 nm was used, running at 1 KHz with a pulse width (FWHM) of 400 ps (Teem
Photonics PNVM025 10). Total energy per pulse did not exceed 5 gJ which prevents photo
bleaching of NADH.        The excitation light was delivered to the gel using a custom made
trifurcated optical probe. The probe consisted of a central 600 micron fiber for delivering the
excitation light surrounded by twelve 200 micron fibers to collect the fluorescence. Every
other fiber from the twelve collection fibers were bundled together forming two channels.
One collection channel/bundle goes to a spectrometer (Ocean Optics, Maya), which measure
the fluorescence spectrum every 100 ms and the other channel/bundle connected to a beam
splitter (demultiplexer).
[0060]       A serial dilution of MTX (25 g/ml to 25ng/ml) was prepared in agar gel. MTX
when exposed to UV light is converted to a more fluorescent form. Upon exposure to UV
light the fluorescent form accumulates. In order to detect the fluorescent form the conversion
from low fluorescence to fluorescent form was allowed to take place until a saturation level
was reached. The final fluorescence intensity was recorded and compared to the
concentration. The fluorescence intensity of MTX after 20 mins of UV light exposure is a
good indicator of the concentration of MTX in the agar gel as shown in Figure 9.
Example 4
Tumor Detection
[00611       Laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy (LIFS) represents a promising new
adjunctive technique for in vivo diagnosis. Fluorescence spectroscopy involves exciting the
endogenous      fluorophores    (label-free)   within  tissues  and recording   the   emission.
Fluorescence spectroscopy can by employed in two ways, steady-state or time-resolved
fluorescence spectroscopy. The time-resolved measurement resolves fluorescence intensity
decay in terms of lifetimes and thus provides additional information about the underlying
dynamics of the fluorescence intensity decay.            Time-resolved measurements are also
independent of factors such as absorption by tissue endogenous fluorophores (e.g blood),
photobleaching or any other condition that may affect the fluorescence intensity.           By
measuring the fluorescence decay characteristics, which reflect the differences in the
relaxation dynamics of distinct fluorescent molecules, time-resolved measurements have an
ability to resolve overlapping spectra, and improve the specificity of the fluorescence
measurement.
                                                 20

[00621      Applicants show that in patients, the TR-LIFS systems described herein can
discriminate glioma tumors (both high- and low-grade) from the surrounding normal brain
tissue intra-operatively.   This work is to establish the TR-LIFS potential to enhance the
ability of the neurosurgeon-neuropathologist team to rapidly distinguish between tumor and
normal brain during surgery.
[00631      Instrumentation: Experiments were conducted with an instrument setup, which
allowed for spectrally-resolved fluorescence lifetime measurements.        A schematic of the
optical and electronic layout of the apparatus is shown in Figure 1. Briefly, it consisted of a)
A pulsed Q-switch Nd:YaG laser (Teem Photonics, model Teem Photonics PNVM025 10, k =
350 nm, pulse width   =  400 ps FWHM, pulse rate    = 1 KHz) which was used as the excitation
source, b) a custom made sterilizable trifurcated fiber-optic probe (Fiberguide, NJ), c) a gated
multi-channel plate photo-multiplier tube (MCP-PMT Photek, UK, model 210, rise time =80
ps) with an optional fast preamplifier (Photek, UK, model PA200-10, 2 GHz), e) a digitizer
(ADQ-108, SPDevices, Sveden, 7 Gsamples/sec), and f) a computer Laptop, g) a custom
made demuxer as shown in figure 1 and peripheral electronics. The instrument allowed for
mobility as it was contained in a standard endoscopic cart (70x70x150 cm3) internally
modified to accommodate the individual devices. To ensure a very low noise level from the
electronics used such as a high voltage supply and preamplifier power supply, all the
instruments are shielded from the main power supply using a medical grade Isolation
transformer (Toroid@ ISB-170A).
[0064]      Delivery catheter: Light delivery and collection were implemented with a custom
made bifurcated sterilizable probe. The probe consisted of non-solarizing silica/silica step
index fibers of 0.11 numerical aperture (NA) (Fiberguide, New Jersey, NJ). It had a central
excitation fiber of 600 gm core diameter, surrounded by a collection ring of twelve 200 gm
core diameter fibers. All the collection fibers were bundled together and combined into a
single 600 micron fiber. The center-to-center separation between the excitation and collection
fibers was 480 gm. The probe was flexible throughout its entire length (3 meters) except of a
7 cm distal part consisted of a rigid stainless steel tube. This facilitated the mounting and
micromanipulation of the probe. A spacer with two slits on the opposite sides was added in
front of the distal end of the probe. This allowed the probe to be in contact with the tissue
while maintaining a fixed distance from the tissue. The two slits on the spacer enabled the
surgeon to apply a suction tube to maintain a clear field. The laser light was coupled into the
illumination channel of the probe with a standard SMA connector, while the distal end of the
                                               21

collection channel was formed into a straight line in order to facilitate coupling to the
spectrograph.     After tissue excitation, the emitted fluorescence light was collected and
directed into the entrance slit of the demuxer by bundle one and spectrometer via bundle two.
The signal was then detected by the MCP-PMT, amplified by the fast preamplifier, and
finally digitized at 8 bits resolution by the digital oscilloscope. The overall time resolution of
the systems was approximately 150 ps.
[0065]      The fiber optic probe was positioned at 3 mm above the exposed brain tissue
specimen with the help of a spacer to optimize the probe light collection efficiency as
previously reported and to steady the probe over the tissue. Time-resolved emission of each
sample was recorded at seven separate wavelength bands (355 (<365nm)), 365-410 nm, 415
450 nm, 450-490 nm, 500-560 nm, 560-600nm and >600 nm) spectral range. The energy
output of the laser (at the tip of the fiber) for sample excitation was adjusted to 5.OgJ/pulse.
After the spectroscopic analysis the tissue was biopsied at the exact site and sent for
pathological investigation.
[00661      Each biopsy sample was fixed in 10% buffered formalin. The tissue samples were
fixed on the slides and stained with H&E.            All biopsy specimens were studied by the
pathologist and correlated with original fluorescence spectroscopy measurements results.
Histologically,    gliomas     were    categorized     in   low   grade:     Oligodendroglioma,
oligodendroastrocytoma, diffuse astrocytoma (WHO Grade II), intermediate grade: anaplastic
astrocytoma (WHO Grade III) and high grade: anaplastic oligodendroglioma, anaplastic
oligoastrocytoma and glioblastoma multiforme (grade III-IV) based on the WHO grading.
For the purpose of spectroscopic classification in this study the gliomas were grouped as low
grade glioma (LGG) (grade I & II) and high grade glioma (HGG) (grade III & IV).
[0067]       TR-LIFS Data Analysis: In the context of TR-LIFS, the intrinsic fluorescence
impulse response functions (IRF), h(n), describes the real dynamics of the fluorescence
decay. The IRF were recovered by numerical deconvolution of the measured input laser pulse
from the measured fluorescence response transients. The Laguerre expansion technique was
used for deconvolution. Laguerre expansion technique was selected over the more
conventional multi-exponential curve fitting for a set of reasons. It allows for faster
deconvolution of the fluorescence IR. Since the Laguerre basis is orthonormal, it provides a
unique and complete expansion of the decay function. This technique in also non-parametric
thus does not require a priory assumption of the functional form of the decay. Consequently,
                                                 22

this allows for the approximation of fluorescence systems with unknown and complex
relaxation dynamics such as that of biological tissues. This method allows a direct recovery
of the intrinsic properties of a dynamic system from the experimental input-output data. The
technique uses the orthonormal Laguerre functions to expand the IRF and to estimate the
Laguerre expansion coefficients (LEC). The normalized fluorescence spectra were obtained
by dividing the discrete intensities values with the intensity value at the peak emission.
Further, to characterize the temporal dynamics of the fluorescence decay, two sets of
parameters were used: 1) the average lifetime (-ch) computed as the interpolated time at which
the IRF decays to of its maximum value; and 2) the normalized value of the corresponding
LECs.    Thus, a complete description of fluorescence from each sample as a function of
emission wavelength, kE, was given by the variation of a set of spectroscopic parameters at
distinct wavelengths (emission intensity - Ih, average lifetime of fluorescence emission - -a,
and Laguerre coefficients LECf).           This analytical approach for characterization       of
fluorescence decay was recently developed by our research group and described in detail
elsewhere. Applicants were able to recover the lifetime and Laguerre coefficient values.
[00681      The various methods and techniques described above provide a number of ways to
carry out the application. Of course, it is to be understood that not necessarily all objectives
or advantages described can be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment
described herein. Thus, for example, those skilled in the art will recognize that the methods
can be performed in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of
advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other objectives or advantages as
taught or suggested herein.      A variety of alternatives are described herein.      It is to be
understood that some preferred embodiments specifically include one, another, or several
features, while others specifically exclude one, another, or several features, while still others
mitigate a particular feature by inclusion of one, another, or several advantageous features.
[00691      Furthermore, the skilled artisan will recognize the applicability of various features
from different embodiments.       Similarly, the various elements, features and steps discussed
above, as well as other known equivalents for each such element, feature or step, can be
employed in various combinations by one of ordinary skill in this art to perform methods in
accordance with the principles described herein. Among the various elements, features, and
steps some will be specifically included and others specifically excluded in diverse
embodiments.
                                                 23

[00701      Although the application has been disclosed in the context of certain embodiments
and examples, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the embodiments of the
application extend beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative
embodiments and/or uses and modifications and equivalents thereof.
[0071]      In some embodiments, the terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar references
used in the context of describing a particular embodiment of the application (especially in the
context of certain of the following claims) can be construed to cover both the singular and the
plural. The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand
method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range.         Unless
otherwise indicated herein, each individual value is incorporated into the specification as if it
were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any
suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (for example, "such as") provided
with respect to certain embodiments herein is intended merely to better illuminate the
application and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the application otherwise claimed.
No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element
essential to the practice of the application.
[0072]      Preferred embodiments of this application are described herein, including the best
mode known to the inventors for carrying out the application. Variations on those preferred
embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the
foregoing description. It is contemplated that skilled artisans can employ such variations as
appropriate, and the application can be practiced otherwise than specifically described herein.
Accordingly, many embodiments of this application include all modifications and equivalents
of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law.
Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible variations thereof
is encompassed by the application unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly
contradicted by context.
[0073]      All patents, patent applications, publications of patent applications, and other
material, such as articles, books, specifications, publications, documents, things, and/or the
like, referenced herein are hereby incorporated herein by this reference in their entirety for all
purposes, excepting any prosecution file history associated with same, any of same that is
inconsistent with or in conflict with the present document, or any of same that may have a
                                               24

limiting affect as to the broadest scope of the claims now or later associated with the present
document. By way of example, should there be any inconsistency or conflict between the
description, definition, and/or the use of a term associated with any of the incorporated
material and that associated with the present document, the description, definition, and/or the
use of the term in the present document shall prevail.
[0074]       It is to be understood that the embodiments of the application disclosed herein are
illustrative of the principles of the embodiments of the application. Other modifications that
can be employed can be within the scope of the application. Thus, by way of example, but
not of limitation, alternative configurations of the embodiments of the application can be
utilized in accordance with the teachings herein. Accordingly, embodiments of the present
application are not limited to that precisely as shown and described.
REFERENCES
Butte, P. V, Fang, Q., Jo, J. A., Yong, W. H., Pikul, B. K., Black, K. L., & Marcu, L. (n.d.).
      Intraoperative delineation of primary brain tumors using time-resolved fluorescence
      spectroscopy. JournalofBiomedical Optics, 15(2), 027008. doi: 10.1117/1.3374049
Butte, P. V, Pikul, B. K., Hever, A., Yong, W. H., Black, K. L., & Marcu, L. (2005).
      Diagnosis of meningioma by time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy. Journalof
      Biomedical Optics, 10(6), 064026. doi:10.1117/1.2141624
Butte, P. V., Mamelak, A. N., Nuno, M., Bannykh, S. I., Black, K. L., & Marcu, L. (2010).
      Fluorescence lifetime spectroscopy for guided therapy of brain tumors. NeuroImage, 54,
      S125-S135. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2010.11.001
Marcu, L., Jo, J. a, Butte, P. V, Yong, W. H., Pikul, B. K., Black, K. L., & Thompson, R. C.
      (2004). Fluorescence lifetime spectroscopy of glioblastoma multiforme. Photochemistry
      and Photobiology, 80, 98-103. doi: 10.1562/2003-12-09-RA-023.1
Yong, W. H., Butte, P. V, Pikul, B. K., Jo, J. A., Fang, Q., Papaioannou, T., ... Marcu, L.
      (2006). Distinction of brain tissue, low grade and high grade glioma with time-resolved
      fluorescence spectroscopy. Frontiersin Bioscience : A Journaland Virtual Library,
      11(4), 1255-63. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16368511
Jo, J. a, Fang, Q., Papaioannou, T., & Marcu, L. (2004). Fast model-free deconvolution of
      fluorescence decay for analysis of biological systems. JournalofBiomedical Optics,
      9(4), 743-52. doi:10.1117/1.1752919
                                                25

Lakowicz, J. R. (2006). Principlesoffluorescence spectroscopy (3rd ed., p. xxvi, 954 p.).
     New York: Springer. Retrieved from
     http://www.loc.gov/catdir/enhancements/fy0824/2006920796-b.html
Pogue, B. W., Pitts, J. D., Mycek, M. a, Sloboda, R. D., Wilmot, C. M., Brandsema, J. F., &
     O'Hara, J. a. (2001). In vivo NADH fluorescence monitoring as an assay for cellular
     damage in photodynamic therapy. Photochemistry and Photobiology, 74(6), 817-24.
     Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/ 11783938
Schneckenburger, H. (1992). Fluorescence decay kinetics and imaging of NAD(P)H and
     flavins as metabolic indicators. OpticalEngineering,31(7), 1447. doi:10.1117/12.57704
Sun, Y., Phipps, J., Elson, D. S., Stoy, H., Tinling, S., Meier, J., ... Marcu, L. (2009).
     Fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy: in vivo application to diagnosis of oral
     carcinoma. Opt Lett, 34(13), 2081-2083. doi:183277 [pii]
                                                26

IN THE CLAIMS
1.  A system for characterizing a biological sample by analyzing emission of fluorescent
    light from the biological sample upon excitation comprising:
    (i)   a laser source connected to a biological sample via excitation fibers (ExF),
          wherein the laser is configured to radiate the biological sample with a laser pulse
          at a predetermined wavelength to cause the biological to produce a responsive
          fluorescence signal;
    (ii)  collection fibers (CF), wherein the CF collect the fluorescence signal from the
          sample, and relays the signal to a demultiplexer;
    (iii) a demultiplexer comprising wavelength splitting filters so as to split the signal
          from the CF at pre-determined wavelengths to obtain spectral bands; and
    (iv) an optical delay device.
2.  The system of claim 1, further comprising a photomultiplier tube comprising a
    preamplifier so as to amplify the signal after the signal has passed through the
    photomultiplier tube before the signal is digitized.
3.  The system of claim 2, further comprising a digitizer so as to digitize the signal
    received from the photomultiplier tube and a computer system to process and display
    the signal.
4.  The system of claim 1, wherein the optical delay device is adapted to couple the
    spectral bands from the demultiplexer into the delay device, allow the spectral bands to
    travel through the delay device and introduce a controlled time delay as the spectral
    bands travel through delay device, so as to capture multiple wavelengths in a single
    shot.
5.  The system of claim 1, wherein the collection fibers form a single bundle.
6.  The system of claim 1, wherein the demultiplexer splits the incoming signal at
    wavelengths of 355nm (less than 360), 365-410nm, 410- 450 nm, 450-480nm, 500
    560nm, 560-600nm and greater than 600nm.
                                              27

7.  A method for characterizing a biological sample by analyzing emission of a
    fluorescence signal from the biological sample upon excitation comprising:
    (i)   radiating the biological sample with a laser pulse at a predetermined wavelength
          to cause the biological to produce a responsive fluorescence signal;
    (ii)  collecting the fluorescence signal from the sample;
    (iii) splitting the signal at predetermined wavelengths to obtain spectral bands;
    (iv) passing the spectral bands through a time-delay mechanism;
    (v)   obtaining the time-delayed spectral bands; and
    (vi) processing the time-delayed spectral band signal.
8.  The method of claim 7, wherein processing the signal comprises passing the signal
    through a digitizer so as to digitize the signal received from a photomultiplier tube to a
    computer system to process and display the signal.
9.  The method of claim 7, wherein splitting the signal comprises splitting the incoming
    signal with a demultiplexer at wavelengths of 355nm (less than 365nm), 365-410, 410
    450 nm, 450-480nm, 500-560nm, 560-600nm and greater than 600nm.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the fluorescence signal is emitted by a biomolecule.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the biomolecule is any one or more of PLP-GAD
    (pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP) glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)), bound NADH,
    free NADH, flavin mononucleotide (FMN) riboflavin, flavin adenine dinucleotide
    (FAD) riboflavin, lipopigments, endogenous porphyrins or a combination thereof.
12. A method for determining tissue viability            comprising analyzing     emission of
    fluorescence signals from biomolecules in the tissue by the method of claim 7, wherein
    an increase in fluorescence of the biomolecule in the subject relative to a normal subject
    is indicative of poor tissue viability.
13. A method for continuously monitoring cellular metabolism comprising analyzing
    emission of a fluorescence signal by the method of claim 7.
                                              28

14. A method for determining drug or metabolite level in plasma comprising analyzing
    emission of a fluorescence signal from a biomolecule by the method of claim 7.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the biomolecule is NADH.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein NADH is in free form, bound form or a combination
    thereof.
                                            29

                                                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                <U+2701>       <U+2702>           <U+2704>       <U+260E>       <U+2706>   <U+271D>   <U+271D>
                            <U+271E>       <U+271F>       <U+2720>   <U+2721>       <U+261B>       <U+261E>
<U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>   <U+271D>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    <U+2701>       <U+2702>   <U+2704>           <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>   <U+271D>
                                                    <U+2702>   <U+271D>
                            <U+2701>   <U+2702>       <U+2704>
<U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>   <U+271D>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
