                                         ABSTRACT
          An apparatus (100) for controlling the connection speed of downhole connectors
(316, 146) in a subterranean well. The apparatus (100) includes a first assembly that is
positionable in the well. The first assembly includes a first downhole connector (316) and
a first communication medium. A second assembly includes a second downhole
connector (146) and a second communication medium. The second assembly has an
outer portion and an inner portion. The outer portion is selectively axially shiftable relative
to an inner portion, such that upon engagement of the first assembly with the second
assembly, the outer portion of the second assembly is axially shifted relative to the inner
portion of the second assembly allowing the first and second downhole connectors (316,
146) to be operatively connected to each other, thereby enabling communication between
the first communication medium and the second communication medium.

                                                 1
     APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE CONNECTION AND
             DISCONNECTION SPEED OF DOWNHOLE CONNECTORS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed 8 June 2017, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2015264868, filed on 8 December 2015, titled "Apparatus and Method for
Controlling the Connection and Disconnection Speed of Downhole Connectors", which is
a divisional application of Australian Patent No. 2010216403, filed on 4 January 2010,
titled "Apparatus and Method for Controlling the Connection and Disconnection Speed of
Downhole Connectors", all three of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]          This disclosure relates, in general, to equipment utilized and operations
performed in conjunction with a subterranean well and, in particular, to an apparatus
and method for controlling the connection and disconnection speed of downhole
connectors.
BACKGROUND
[0002]          Without limiting the scope of the present invention, its background is
described with reference to using optical fibers for communication and sensing in a
subterranean wellbore environment, as an example.
[0003]          It is well known in the subterranean well completion and production arts
that downhole sensors can be used to monitor a variety of parameters in the wellbore
environment. For example, during a treatment operation, it may be desirable to monitor a
variety of properties of the treatment fluid such as viscosity, temperature, pressure,
velocity, specific gravity, conductivity, fluid composition and the like. Transmission of this
information to the surface in real-time or near real-time allows the operators to modify or

                                               2
optimize such treatment operations to improve the completion process. One way to
transmit this information to the surface is through the use of an energy conductor which
may take the form of one or more optical fibers.
[0004]          In addition or as an alternative to operating as an energy conductor, an
optical fiber may serve as a sensor. It has been found that an optical fiber may be used to
obtain distributed measurements representing a parameter along the entire length of
the fiber. Specifically , optical fibers have been used for distributed downhole
temperature sensing, which provides a more complete temperature                    profile as
compared to discrete temperature sensors. In operation, once an optical fiber is
installed in the well, a pulse of laser light is sent along the fiber. As the light travels
down the fiber, portions of the light are backscattered to the surface due to the
optical properties     of the fiber. The     backscattered light has a slightly shifted
frequency such       that it provides    information that is      used    to determine     the
temperature at the point in the fiber where the backscatter originated. In addition,
as the speed of light is constant, the distance from the surface to the point
where     the   backscatter originated can also be           determined.    In this manner,
continuous monitoring of the backscattered light will provide temperature profile
information for the entire length of the fiber.
[0005]          Use of an optical fiber for distributed downhole temperature sensing may
be highly beneficial during the completion process. For example, in a stimulation
operation, a temperature profile may be obtained to determine where the injected fluid
entered formations or zones intersected by the wellbore. This information is useful in
evaluating the effectiveness of the stimulation operation and in planning future stimulation
operations. Likewise, use of an optical fiber for distributed downhole temperature sensing
may be highly beneficial during production operations. For example, during a production
operation a distributed temperature profile may be used in determining the location of
water or gas influx along the sand control screens.
[0006]          In a typical completion operation, a lower portion of the completion string
including various tools such as sand control screens, fluid flow control devices, wellbore
isolation devices and the like is permanently installed in the wellbore. As discussed above,

                                                3
the lower portion of the completion string may include various sensors, particularly, a
lower portion of the optical fiber. After the completion process is finished, an upper
portion of the completions string which includes the upper portion of the optical fiber is
separated from the lower portion of the completion string and retrieved to the surface.
This operation cuts off communication between the lower portion of the optical fiber
and the surface. Accordingly, if information from the production zones is to be
transmitted to the surface during production operations, a connection to the lower
portion of the optical fiber must be reestablished when the production tubing string is
installed.
[0007]           It has been found, however, that wet mating optical fibers in a downhole
environment is very difficult. This difficulty is due in part to the lack of precision in the
axially movement of the production tubing string relative to the previously installed
completion string. Specifically, the production tubing string is installed in the wellbore by
lowering the block at the surface, which is thousands of feet away from the downhole
landing location. In addition, neither the distance the block is moved nor the speed at
which the block is moved at the surface directly translates to the movement characteristics
at the downhole end of the production tubing string due to static and dynamic frictional
forces, gravitational forces, fluid pressure forces and the like. The lack of correlation
between block movement and the movement of the lower end of the production tubing
string is particularly acute in slanted, deviated and horizontal wells. This lack in precision
in both the distance and the speed at which the lower end of the production tubing string
moves has limited the ability to wet mate optical fibers downhole as the wet mating
process requires relatively high precision to sufficiently align the fibers to achieve the
required optical transmissivity at the location of the connection.
[0008]          Therefore, a need has arisen for an apparatus and method for wet
connecting optical fibers in a subterranean wellbore environment. A need has also arisen
for such an apparatus and method for wet connecting optical fibers that is operable to
overcome the lack of precision in the axial movement of downhole pipe strings
relative to one another. Further, a need has arisen for such an apparatus and method

                                              4
for wet connecting optical fibers that is operable to overcome the lack of precision in
the speed of movement of downhole pipe strings relative to one another.
SUMMARY
[0009]         Described herein are an apparatus and method for wet connecting
downhole communication media in a subterranean wellbore environment. The apparatus
and method of the present disclosure are operable to overcome the lack of precision in
the axial movement of downhole pipe strings relative to one another. In addition,
apparatus and method of the present disclosure are operable to overcome the lack of
precision in the speed of movement of downhole pipe strings relative to one another. In
carrying out the principles of the present disclosure, a wet connection apparatus and
method are provided that are operable to control the connection speed of downhole
connectors.
[0010]          In one aspect, the present disclosure is directed to a method for controlling
a connection speed of first and second downhole connectors in a subterranean well. The
method includes positioning a first assembly in the well, the first assembly including the
first downhole connector and a first communication medium; engaging the first assembly
with a second assembly, the second assembly including the second downhole connector
and a second communication medium; axially shifting an outer portion of the second
assembly relative to an inner portion of the second assembly while metering a fluid
through a transfer piston to control the rate at which the outer and inner portions of the
second assembly axially shift relative to one another; and operatively connecting the first
and second downhole connectors to each other, thereby enabling communication
between the first and second communication media.          In one embodiment, the method
includes releasing a lock initially coupling the outer and inner portions of the second
assembly. This step may be performed by radially inwardly compressing a collet assembly
of the outer portion of the second assembly with an inner surface of the first assembly. In
another embodiment, the method includes controlling the rate at which the outer and inner
portions of the second assembly axially shift relative to one another with a resistance
assembly. This step may be performed by metering a fluid through a transfer piston. In a

                                               5
further embodiment, the method includes anchoring the second assembly within the first
assembly. This step may be performed by engaging a collet assembly of the outer portion
of the second assembly with a profile of the first assembly. In yet another embodiment,
the method may include disposing the first downhole connector of the first assembly at a
location uphole of a packer of the first assembly. In any of the embodiments, the
communication media may be optical fibers, electrical conductors, hydraulic fluid or the
like. When the first communication medium is an optical fiber, this optical fiber may be
operated as a sensor such as a distributed temperature sensor.
[0011]           In another aspect, the present disclosure is directed to a method for
controlling a connection speed of first and second fiber optic connectors in a subterranean
well. The method includes positioning a first assembly in the well, the first assembly
including the first fiber optic connector and a first optical fiber; engaging the first assembly
with a second assembly, the second assembly including the second fiber optic connector
and a second optical fiber; axially shifting an outer portion of the second assembly relative
to an inner portion of the second assembly while metering a fluid through a transfer piston
to control the rate at which the outer and inner portions of the second assembly axially
shift relative to one another; and then operatively connecting the first and second fiber
optic connectors to each other, thereby enabling light transmission between the optical
fibers.
[0012]           In a further aspect, the present disclosure is directed to an apparatus for
controlling a connection speed of first and second downhole connectors in a subterranean
well. The apparatus includes a first assembly that is positionable in the well. The first
assembly includes the first downhole connector and a first communication medium. A
second assembly includes the second downhole connector and a second communication
medium. The second assembly has an outer portion and an inner portion with a transfer
piston positioned therebetween, that the outer portion selectively axially shiftable relative
to the inner portion. Upon engagement of the first assembly with the second assembly,
the outer portion of the second assembly is axially shifted relative to the inner portion of
the second assembly while metering a fluid through the transfer piston to control the rate
at which the outer and inner portions of the second assembly axially shift relative to one

                                              6
another allowing the first and second downhole connectors to be operatively connected to
each other, thereby enabling communication between the first communication medium
and the second communication medium.          In one embodiment, the inner portion of the
second assembly includes a lock and the outer portion of the second assembly includes a
collet assembly. The lock initially couples the outer and inner portions of the second
assembly together and the collet is operable to release the lock in response to being
radially inwardly compressed by an inner surface of the first assembly. In another
embodiment, the apparatus includes a resistance assembly that is positioned between the
outer portion of the second assembly and the inner portion of the second assembly that
controls the rate at which the outer and inner portions of the second assembly axially shift
relative to one another by, for example, metering a fluid through a transfer piston. In a
further embodiment, the outer portion of the second assembly includes a collet assembly
and the first assembly includes a profile. In this embodiment, the collet assembly is
operable to engage the profile to anchor the second assembly within the first assembly. In
yet another embodiment, the first assembly includes a packer and the first downhole
connector of the first assembly is positioned at a location uphole of the packer.
[0013]          In yet another aspect, the present disclosure is directed to a method for
controlling a disconnection speed of first and second downhole connectors in a
subterranean well. The method includes establishing a predetermined tensile force
between a first assembly and a second assembly in the well, the first assembly including
the first downhole connector and a first communication medium, the second assembly
including the second downhole connector and a second communication medium; axially
shifting an outer portion of the second assembly relative to an inner portion of the second
assembly while metering a fluid through a transfer piston to control the rate at which the
outer and inner portions of the second assembly axially shift relative to one another; and
operatively disconnecting the first and second downhole connectors from each other,
thereby disabling communication between the first and second communication media. In
one embodiment, the method may include releasing an anchor of the second assembly
from a profile in the first assembly. This step may be performed by radially inwardly
compressing a collet assembly of the second assembly with an inner surface of the first
assembly. In another embodiment, the method may include controlling the rate at which

                                                7
the outer and inner portions of the second assembly axially shift relative to one another
with a resistance assembly. This step may be performed by metering a fluid through a
transfer piston.     In another aspect there is provided an apparatus for controlling a
connection speed of fiber optic connectors in a subterranean well comprising: a first
assembly positionable in the well, the first assembly including a first fiber optic connector
and a first optical fiber; and a second assembly including a second fiber optic connector
and a second optical fiber, the second assembly having an outer portion and an inner
portion with a transfer piston positioned therebetween, the outer portion selectively axially
shiftable relative to the inner portion, wherein, upon engagement of the first assembly with
the second assembly, axially shifting the outer portion of the second assembly in a first
direction relative to the inner portion of the second assembly meters a fluid through the
transfer piston which controls the speed at which the outer and inner portions of the
second assembly axially shift relative to one another allowing the first and second fiber
optic connectors to be operatively connected to each other at a predetermined connection
speed, thereby optically coupling the first and second optical fibers.
[0014]           In another aspect there is provided a method for controlling a disconnection
speed of fiber optic connectors in a subterranean well comprising: establishing a
predetermined tensile force between a first assembly and a second assembly in the well,
the first assembly including a first fiber optic connector and a first optical fiber, the second
assembly including a second fiber optic connector and a second optical fiber; axially
shifting an outer portion of the second assembly relative to an inner portion of the second
assembly while metering a fluid through a transfer piston to control the speed at which the
outer and inner portions of the second assembly axially shift relative to one another; and
operatively disconnecting the first and second fiber optic connectors from each other,
thereby optically decoupling the first and second optical fibers. In another aspect there is
provided a method for controlling connection and disconnection speeds of fiber optic
connectors in a subterranean well comprising: positioning a first assembly having a first
fiber optic connector and a first optical fiber in the well; engaging the first assembly with a
second assembly having a second fiber optic connector and a second optical fiber; axially
shifting an outer portion of the second assembly relative to an inner portion of the second
assembly in a first direction while metering a fluid through a transfer piston to control the

                                                8
axial shifting speed thereof; operatively connecting the first and second fiber optic
connectors to each other to optically couple the first and second optical fibers;
establishing a predetermined tensile force between the first assembly and the second
assembly; axially shifting the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner
portion of the second assembly in a second direction while metering the fluid through the
transfer piston to control the axial shifting speed thereof; and operatively disconnecting
the first and second fiber optic connectors from each other to optically decoupling the first
and second optical fibers.
[0015]          In another aspect there is provided a method for controlling a connection
speed of downhole connectors in a subterranean well comprising: positioning a first
assembly in the well, the first assembly including an inner surface, a first downhole
connector and a first communication medium; engaging the first assembly with a second
assembly, the second assembly including a second downhole connector and a second
communication medium, the second assembly having an outer portion including a collet
and an inner portion including a lock; initially coupling the outer and inner portions of the
second assembly together with the lock; radially inwardly compressing the collet assembly
with the inner surface of the first assembly to release the lock; axially shifting the outer
portion of the second assembly relative to the inner portion of the second assembly; and
operatively connecting the first and second downhole connectors to each other, thereby
enabling communication between the first and second communication media. In another
aspect there is provided a method for controlling a connection speed of fiber optic
connectors in a subterranean well comprising: positioning a first assembly in the well, the
first assembly including an inner surface, a first fiber optic connector and a first optical
fiber; engaging the first assembly with a second assembly, the second assembly including
a second fiber optic connector and a second optical fiber, the second assembly having an
outer portion including a collet and an inner portion including a lock; initially coupling the
outer and inner portions of the second assembly together with the lock; radially inwardly
compressing the collet assembly with the inner surface of the first assembly to release the
lock; axially shifting the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner portion
of the second assembly; and operatively connecting the first and second fiber optic
connectors to each other, thereby optically coupling the first and second optical fibers.

                                                9
[0016]            In another aspect there is provided an apparatus for controlling a
connection speed of first and second downhole connectors in a subterranean well
comprising: a first assembly positionable in the well, the first assembly including a first
downhole connector, a first communication medium and an inner surface; and a second
assembly including a second downhole connector and a second communication medium,
the second assembly having an outer portion including a collet and an inner portion
including a lock, the outer portion selectively axially shiftable relative to the inner portion,
the lock initially coupling the outer and inner portions of the second assembly together and
the collet operable to release the lock in response to being radially inwardly compressed
by engagement with the inner surface of the first assembly, wherein, after releasing the
lock, the outer portion of the second assembly is axially shiftable relative to the inner
portion of the second assembly allowing the first and second downhole connectors to be
operatively connected to each other, thereby enabling communication between the
communication media. In another aspect there is provided an apparatus for controlling a
connection speed of first and second fiber optic connectors in a subterranean well
comprising: a first assembly positionable in the well, the first assembly including a first
fiber optic connector, a first optical fiber and an inner surface; and a second assembly
including a second fiber optic connector and a second optical fiber, the second assembly
having an outer portion including a collet and an inner portion including a lock, the outer
portion selectively axially shiftable relative to the inner portion, the lock initially coupling
the outer and inner portions of the second assembly together and the collet operable to
release the lock in response to being radially inwardly compressed by engagement with
the inner surface of the first assembly, wherein, after releasing the lock, the outer portion
of the second assembly is axially shiftable relative to the inner portion of the second
assembly allowing the first and second fiber optic connectors to be operatively connected
to each other, thereby optically coupling the first and second optical fibers.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]            For a more complete understanding of the features and advantages of the
present disclosure, reference is now made to the detailed description along with the

                                               10
accompanying figures in which corresponding numerals in the different figures refer to
corresponding parts and in which:
[0018]           FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of an offshore oil and gas platform
operating an apparatus for controlling the connection speed of downhole connectors
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0019]           FIGS. 2A-2D are front views of consecutive axial sections of an apparatus
for controlling the connection speed of downhole connectors in a running configuration
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0020]           FIGS. 3A-3D are cross sectional views of consecutive axial sections of an
apparatus for controlling the connection speed of downhole connectors in a running
configuration according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0021]           FIGS. 4A-4D are front views of consecutive axial sections of an apparatus
for controlling the connection speed of downhole connectors, in an anchored configuration
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure; and
[0022]           FIGS. 5A-5D are cross sectional views of consecutive axial sections of an
apparatus for controlling the connection speed of downhole connectors in an anchored
configuration according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0023]           While the making and using of various embodiments of the present
disclosure are discussed in detail below, it should be appreciated that the present
disclosure provides many applicable inventive concepts, which can be embodied in a wide
variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed herein are merely
illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention, and do not delimit the scope of
the invention.
[0024]           Referring initially to FIG. 1, an apparatus for controlling the connection
speed of downhole connectors deployed from an offshore oil or gas platform is
schematically illustrated and generally designated 10. A semi-submersible platform 12 is

                                                11
centered over submerged oil and gas formation 14 located below sea floor 16. A subsea
conduit 18 extends from deck 20 of platform 12 to wellhead installation 22, including
blowout preventers 24. Platform 12 has a hoisting apparatus 26, a derrick 28, a travel
block 30, a hook 32 and a swivel 34 for raising and lowering pipe strings, such as a
substantially tubular, axially extending production tubing 36.
[0025]           A wellbore 38 extends through the various earth strata including formation
14. An upper portion of wellbore 38 includes casing 40 that is cemented within wellbore
38. Disposed in an open hole portion of wellbore 38 is a completion 42 that includes
various tools such as packer 44, a seal bore assembly 46 and sand control screen
assemblies 48, 50, 52, 54. In the illustrated embodiment, completion 42 also includes an
orientation and alignment subassembly 56 that houses a downhole wet mate connector.
Extending downhole from orientation and alignment subassembly 56 is a conduit 58 that
passes through packer 44 and is operably associated with sand control screen
assemblies 48, 50, 52, 54. Preferably, conduit 58 is a spoolable metal conduit, such as a
stainless steel conduit that may be attached to the exterior of pipe strings as they are
deployed in the well. In the illustrated embodiment, conduit 58 is wrapped around sand
control screen assemblies 48, 50, 52, 54. One or more communication media such as
optical fibers, electrical conducts, hydraulic fluid or the like may be disposed within conduit
58. In certain embodiments, the communication media may operate as energy conductors
including power and data transmission between downhole a location or downhole sensors
(not pictured) and the surface. In other embodiments, the communication media may
operate as downhole sensors.
[0026]           For example, when optical fibers are used as the communication media,
the optical fibers may be used to obtain distributed measurements representing a
parameter along the entire length of the fiber such as distributed temperature sensing. In
this embodiment, a pulse of laser light from the surface is sent along the fiber and portions
of the light are backscattered to the surface due to the optical properties of the fiber. The
slightly shifted frequency of the backscattered light provides information that is used to
determine the temperature at the point in the fiber where the backscatter originated. In
additions as the speed of light is constant, the distance from the surface to the point

                                               12
where the backscatter originated can also be determined. In this manner, continuous
monitoring of the backscattered light will provide temperature profile information for the
entire length of the fiber.
[0027]          Disposed in wellbore 38 at the lower end of production tubing string 36 are
a variety of tools including seal assembly 60 and anchor assembly 62 including downhole
wet mate connector 64. Extending uphole of connector 64 is a conduit 66 that extends to
the surface in the annulus between production tubing string 36 and wellbore 38 and is
suitable coupled to production tubing string 36 to prevent damage to conduit 66 during
installation. Similar to conduit 58, conduit 66 may have one or more communication
media, such as optical fibers, electrical conducts, hydraulic fluid or the like disposed
therein. Preferable, conduit 58 and conduit 66 will have the same type of communication
media disposed therein such that energy may be transmitted therebetween following the
connection process. As discussed in greater detail below, prior to producing fluids, such
as hydrocarbon fluids, from formation 14, production tubing string 36 and completion 42
are connected together. When properly connected to each other, a sealed communication
path is created between seal assembly 60 and seal bore assembly 46 which establishes a
sealed internal flow passage from completion 42 to production tubing string 36, thereby
providing a fluid conduit to the surface for production fluids. In addition, as discussed in
greater detail below, the present         disclosure enables the      communication    media
associated with conduit 66 to be operatively connected to the communication media
associated with conduit 58, thereby enabling communication therebetween and, in the
case of optical fiber communication media, enabling distributed temperature information
to be obtained along completion 42 during the subsequent production operations.
[0028]          Even though FIG. 1 depicts a slanted wellbore, it should be understood by
those skilled in the art that the apparatus for controlling the connection speed of downhole
connectors according to the present disclosure is equally well suited for use in wellbore
having other orientations including vertical wellbores, horizontal wellbores, multilateral
wellbores or the like. Accordingly, it should be understood by those skilled in the art that
the use of directional terms such as above, below, upper, lower, upward, downward and
the like are used in relation to the illustrative embodiments as they are depicted in the

                                               13
figures, the upward direction being toward the top of the corresponding figure and the
downward direction being toward the bottom of the corresponding figure. Also, even
though FIG. 1 depicts an offshore operation, it should be understood by those skilled in
the art that the apparatus for controlling the connection speed of downhole connectors
according to the present disclosure is equally well suited for use in onshore operations.
Further, even though FIG. 1 depicts an open hole completion, it should be understood by
those skilled in the art that the apparatus for controlling the connection speed of downhole
connectors according to the present disclosure is equally well suited for use in cased hole
completions.
[0029]          Referring now to FIGS. 2 and 3, including FIGS. 2A-2D and FIGS. 3A-3D,
therein is depicted successive axial section of an apparatus or controlling the connection
speed of downhole connectors that is generally designated 100. It is noted that FIGS. 2A
2D and FIGS. 3A-3D as well as FIGS. 4A-4D and 5A-5D below are described with
reference to optical fibers as the communication media. As discussed above, those skilled
in the art will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to this illustrated
embodiment but instead encompasses other communication media including, but not
limited to, electrical conductors and hydraulic fluid. Also, as described above, apparatus
100 is formed from certain components that are initially installed downhole as part of
completion 42 and certain components that are carried on the lower end of production
tubing string 36. As illustrated in FIG. 2, some the components carried on the lower end of
production tubing string 36 have come in contact with certain components of completion
42 prior to connecting the respective wet mate connectors together. The entire apparatus
100 will now be described from its uphole end to its downhole end, first describing exterior
part of the components carried on the lower end of production tubing string 36, followed
by the interior parts of the components carried on the lower end of production tubing string
36 then describing the components previously installed downhole as part of completion
42.
[0030]          Apparatus 100 includes a substantially tubular axially extending upper
connector 102 that is operable to be coupled to the lower end of production tubing string
36 by threading or other suitable means. At its lower end, upper connector 102 is

                                                 14
threadedly and sealingly connected to the upper end of a substantially tubular axially
extending hone bore 104. Hone bore 104 includes a plurality of lateral opening 106 having
plugs 108 disposed therein. At its lower end, hone bore 104 is securably connected to the
upper end of a substantially tubular axially extending connector member 110. At its lower
end, connector member 110 is securably connected to the upper end of an axially
extending     collet   assembly    112.   Collet   assembly   112   includes    a  plurality of
circumferentially disposed anchor collets 114, each having an upper surface 116. In
addition, collet assembly 112 includes a plurality of circumferentially disposed unlocking
collets 118. Further, collet assembly 112 includes a plurality of radially inwardly extending
protrusions 120 and profiles 122. At its lower end, collet assembly 112 is threadedly
coupled to the upper end of a substantially tubular axially extending key retainer 124. A
portion of collet assembly 112 and key retainer 124 are both slidably disposed about the
upper end of a substantially tubular axially extending key mandrel 126. Key mandrel 126
includes a key window 128 into which a spring key 130 is received.
[0031]           At its lower end, key mandrel 126 is threadedly coupled to the upper end of
a substantially tubular axially extending spring housing 132. Disposed within spring
housing 132 is an axially extending spiral wound compression spring 134. At its lower
end, spring housing 132 is slidably disposed about the upper end of a substantially tubular
axially extending connector member 136. At its lower end, connector member 136 is
threadedly coupled to the upper end of a substantially tubular axially extending splitter
138. Splitter 138 includes an orientation key 140 disposed about a circumferential portion
of splitter 138. At its lower end, splitter 138 is coupled to the upper end of a substantially
tubular axially extending fiber optic wet mate head 142 by threading, bolting or other
suitable technique. Fiber optic wet mate head 142 includes a plurality of guide members
144. In the illustrated embodiment, fiber optic wet mate head 142 has three fiber optic wet
mate connectors 146 disposed therein. Each of the fiber optic wet mate connectors 146
has an optical fiber disposed therein. As illustrated, the three optical fibers associated with
fiber optic wet mate connectors 146 passed through splitter 138 and are housed within a
single conduit 148 that wraps around connector member 136 and extends uphole along
the exterior of apparatus 100. Conduit 148 is secured to apparatus 100 by banding or
other suitable technique.

                                               15
[0032]          In the previous section, the exterior components of the portion of apparatus
100 carried by production tubing string 36 were described. In this section, the interior
components of the portion of apparatus 100 carried by production tubing string 36 will be
described. At its upper end, apparatus 100 includes a substantially tubular axially
extending piston mandrel 200 that is slidably and sealingly received within upper
connector 102. Disposed between piston mandrel 200 and hone bore 104 is an annular oil
chamber 202 including upper section 204 and lower section 206. Securably attached to
piston mandrel 200 and sealing positioned within annular oil chamber 202 is a transfer
piston 208. Transfer piston 208 includes one or more passageways 210 therethrough
which preferably include orifices that regulate the rate at which a transfer fluid such as a
liquid or gas and preferably an oil disposed within annular oil chamber 202 may travel
therethrough. Preferably, a check valve may be disposed within each passageway 210 to
allow the flow of oil to proceed in only one direction through that passageway 210. In this
embodiment, certain of the check valves will allow fluid flow in the uphole direction while
other of the check valves will allow fluid flow in the downhole direction. In this manner, the
resistance to flow in the downhole direction can be different from the resistance to flow in
the uphole direction which respectively determines the speed of coupling and decoupling
of the downhole connectors of apparatus 100 For example, it may be desirable to couple
the downhole connectors at a speed that is slower than the speed at which the downhole
connectors are decoupled.
[0033]          Disposed within annular oil chamber 202 is a compensation piston 212 that
has a sealing relationship with both the inner surface of hone bore 104 and the outer
surface of piston mandrel 200. At its lower end, piston mandrel 200 is threadedly and
sealingly coupled to the upper end of a substantially tubular axially extending key block
214. Key block 214 has a radially reduced profile 216 into which spring mounted locking
keys 218 are positioned. Locking keys 218 include a profile 220. At its lower end, key
block 214 is threadedly and sealingly coupled to the upper end of a substantially tubular
axially extending bottom mandrel 222. Bottom mandrel 222 includes a groove 224. A
pickup ring 226 is positioned around bottom mandrel 222. Positioned near the lower end
of bottom mandrel 222 is a key carrier 228 that has a no go surface 230. Disposed within

                                                16
key carrier 228 is a spring mounted locking key 232. Positioned between key carrier 228
and bottom mandrel 222 is a torque key 234. At its lower end, bottom mandrel 222 is
threadedly and sealingly coupled to the upper end of a substantially tubular axially
extending seal adaptor 236. At its lower end, seal adaptor 236 is threadedly and sealingly
coupled to the upper end of one or more substantially tubular axially extending seal
assemblies (not pictured) that establish a sealing relationship with an interior surface of
completion 42.
[0034]            In the previous two sections, the components of apparatus 100 carried by
production tubing string 36 were described. Collectively, these components may be
referred to as an anchor or anchoring assembly. In this section, the components of
apparatus 100 installed with completion 42 will be described. Apparatus 100 includes an
orientation and alignment subassembly 300 that includes a locating and orienting guide
302 that is illustrated in FIG. 3 but has been removed from FIG. 2 for clarity of illustration.
Locating and orienting guide 302 includes a locking profile 304, a groove 306 and a
plurality of fluid passageways 308. In addition, locating and orienting guide 302 includes a
receiving slot 310. Disposed within locating and orienting guide 302, orientation and
alignment subassembly 300 includes a top subassembly 312 that supports a fiber optic
wet mate holder 314. In the illustrated embodiment, disposed within wet mate holder 314
are three wet mate connectors 316. At its upper end, wet mate holder 314 includes a
plurality of guides 318. Positioned between top subassembly 312 and locating and
orienting guide 302 is a key 320. At its lower end, top subassembly 312 is threadedly and
sealingly coupled to the upper end of a substantially tubular axially extending splitter 322.
At its lower end, splitter 322 is coupled to the upper end of one or more substantially
tubular axially extending packers 324 by threading, bolting, fastening or other suitable
technique. Each of the fiber optic wet mate connectors 316 has an optical fiber disposed
therein. As illustrated, the three optical fibers associated with fiber optic wet mate holder
314 pass through splitter 322 and are housed within a single conduit 326 that extends
through packer 324 and is wrapped around sand control screens 48, 50, 52, 54 as
described above to obtain distributed temperature information, for example.

                                               17
[0035]          The operation of the apparatus for controlling the connection speed of
downhole connectors according to the present disclosure will now be described. After the
installation of completion 42 in the wellbore and the performance of any associated
treatment processes wherein the optical fibers associated with completion 42 and
companion optical fibers associated with the service tool string may deliver information to
the surface, the service tool string is retrieved to the surface. In this process, the optical
fibers associated with completion 42 and the optical fibers associated with the service tool
string must be decoupled. In order to reuse the optical fibers associated with completion
42 during production, new optical fibers must be carried with production tubing string 36
and optically coupled to the optical fibers associated with completion 42.
[0036]          In the present disclosure, conduit 148 is attached to the exterior of
production tubing string 36 and extends from the surface to the anchor assembly. One or
more optical fibers are disposed within conduit 148 which may be a conventional hydraulic
line formed from stainless steel or similar material. The anchor assembly is lowered into
the wellbore until the seal assemblies on its lower end enter completion 42. As production
tubing string 36 is further lowered into the wellbore, orientation key 140 contacts the
inclined surfaces of locating and orientating guide 302. This interaction rotates the anchor
assembly until orientation key 140 locates within slot 310 which provides a relatively
coarse circumferential alignment of fiber optic wet mate head 142 with fiber optic wet mate
holder 314. The anchor assembly now continues to travel downwardly in completion 42
until no go surface 230 of key carrier 228 contacts an upwardly facing shoulder 328 of top
subassembly 312. Prior to contact between no go surface 230 and upwardly facing
shoulder 328, guides 144 of fiber optic wet mate head 142 and guides 318 of fiber optic
wet mate holder 314 interact to provide more precise circumferential and axially alignment
of the assemblies.
[0037]          Once no go surface 230 contacts upwardly facing shoulder 328, further
downward motion of the inner components of the anchor assembly stops. In this
configuration, as best seen in FIGS. 2A-2D and 3A-3D, unlocking collets 118 are radially
inwardly shifted due to contact with the inner surface of locating and orienting guide 302.
This radially inward shifting causes the inner surfaces of unlocking collets 118 to contact

                                              18
unlocking keys 218 and compress the associated springs causing unlocking keys 218 to
radially inwardly retract. In the retraced position, radially inwardly extending protrusions
120 are released from profile 220, thereby decoupling the outer portions of the anchor
assembly from the inner portions of the anchor assembly. Relative axially movement of
the outer portions of the anchor assembly and the inner portions of the anchor assembly
is now permitted.
[0038]          As continued downward force is placed on the anchor assembly by
applying force to the production tubing string 36, upper connector 102 is urged
downwardly relative to piston mandrel 200. The movement of upper connector 102
relative to piston mandrel 200 is resisted, however, by a resistance member. In the
illustrated embodiment, the resistance member is depicted as transfer piston 208 and the
fluid within annular oil chamber 202. Specifically, the speed at which upper connector 102
can move relative to piston mandrel 200 is determined by the size of the orifice within
passageway 210 of transfer piston 208 as well as the type of fluid, including liquids, gases
or combinations thereof, within annular oil chamber 202. As the downward force is applied
to upper connector 102, the fluid from upper section 204 of annular oil chamber 202
transfers to lower section 206 of annular oil chamber 202 passing through passageway
210. In this manner, excessive connection speed of fiber optic wet mate connectors 146
and fiber optic wet mate connectors 316 is prevented. Even though the resistance
member has been described as transfer piston 208 and the fluid within annular oil
chamber 202, it should be understood by those skilled in the art that other types of
resistance members could alternatively be used and are considered within the scope of
the present disclosure, including, but not limited to, mechanical springs, fluid springs, fluid
dampeners, shock absorbers and the like.
[0039]          As best seen in FIGS. 4A-4D and 5A-5D, continued downward force on
upper connector 102 not only enables connection of fiber optic wet mate connectors 146
and fiber optic wet mate connectors 316, but also, compresses the outer components of
the anchor assembly and locks the anchor assembly within completion 42. Once the
connection between fiber optic wet mate connectors 146 and fiber optic wet mate
connectors 316 is established, thereby permitting light transmission between the optical

                                               19
fibers therein, continued downward force on upper connector 102 compresses spring 134.
As spring 134 is compressed, spring housing 132 telescopes relative to connector
member 136. This shortening of the outer components of the anchor assembly allows
spring key 130 to engage groove 224 of bottom mandrel 222. Once spring key 130 has
radially inwardly retracted, the outer components of the anchor assembly further collapse
as collet assembly 112 and key retainer 124 telescope relative to key mandrel 126. This
shortening allows anchor collets 114 to engage locking profile 304 which couples the
anchor assembly within completion 42. Also, this shortening allows unlocking collets 118
to engage groove 306 which relaxes unlocking collets 118. In addition, the inner portions
of the anchor assembly are independently secured within completion 42 as extension 150
on the lower end of fiber optic wet mate head 142 is positioned under locking key 232
such that locking key 232 engages profile 330 of top subassembly 312.
[0040]          In this configuration, not only are fiber optic wet mate connectors 146 and
fiber optic wet mate connectors 316 coupled together, there is a biasing force created by
compressed spring 134 that assures the connections will not be lost. Specifically ,
compressed spring 134 downwardly biases connector member 136 which in turn applies a
downward force on splitter 138 and fiber optic wet mate head 142. This force prevents any
decoupling of fiber optic wet mate connectors 146 and fiber optic wet mate connectors
316. In addition, the interaction of surface 116 of anchor collets 114 with locking profile
304 of locating and orienting guide 302 prevents separation of the anchoring assembly
and the completion 42. If it is desired to detach production tubing string 36 from
completion 42, a significant tensile force must be applied to production tubing string 36 at
the surface, for example, 20,000 lbs. This force is transmitted via upper connector 102,
hone bore 104 and connector member 110 to collet assembly 112. When sufficient tensile
force is provided, anchor collets 114 will release from locking profile 304. Thereafter, the
outer portions     of anchor assembly that were telescopically contracted           can be
telescopically extended including the release of energy from spring 134. In order to
separate fiber optic wet mate connectors 146 and fiber optic wet mate connectors 316, the
outer portions of the anchor assembly must be shifted relative to the inner portions of the
anchor assembly. The rate of the axial shifting is again controlled by the metering rate of
fluid through transfer piston 212 . After the outer portions of the anchor assembly have

                                                20
been shifted relative to the inner portions of the anchor assembly, extension 150 no
longer supports locking key 232 in profile 330. As this point the entire anchor assembly
may be retrieved to the surface.
[0041]          While the principles have been described with reference to illustrative
embodiments, this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various
modifications and combinations of the illustrative embodiments as well as other
embodiments of the invention, will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference
to the description. It is, therefore, intended that the appended claims encompass any such
modifications or embodiments.
[0042]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers
or steps.
[0043]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not, be
taken as an acknowledgment or any form or suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.

                                                  21
Claims:
         1. A method for controlling a connection speed of downhole connectors in a
subterranean well comprising:
         positioning a first assembly in the well, the first assembly including an inner
surface, a first downhole connector and a first communication medium;
         engaging the first assembly with a second assembly, the second assembly
including a second downhole connector and a second communication medium, the
second assembly having an outer portion including a collet and an inner portion including
a lock;
         initially coupling the outer and inner portions of the second assembly together with
the lock;
         radially inwardly compressing the collet assembly with the inner surface of the first
assembly to release the lock;
         axially shifting the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner portion
of the second assembly; and
         operatively connecting the first and second downhole connectors to each other,
thereby enabling communication between the first and second communication media.
         2. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein axially shifting the outer portion of the
second assembly relative to the inner portion of the second assembly further comprises
controlling an axial shifting speed of the outer portion of the second assembly relative to
the inner portion of the second assembly with a resistance assembly.

                                               22
        3. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein controlling the axial shifting speed of
the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner portion of the second
assembly with the resistance assembly further comprises metering a fluid through a
transfer piston.
        4. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising securing the second
assembly within the first assembly by engaging the collet assembly of the outer portion of
the second assembly with a profile of the first assembly.
        5. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising creating a biasing force
between the first and second downhole connectors opposing disconnection thereof by
continued axial shifting of the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner
portion of the second assembly after connecting the first and second downhole
connectors.
        6. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the communication media are
selected from the group consisting of optical fibers, electrical conductors and hydraulic
fluid.

                                                  23
         7. A method for controlling a connection speed of fiber optic connectors in a
subterranean well comprising:
         positioning a first assembly in the well, the first assembly including an inner
surface, a first fiber optic connector and a first optical fiber;
         engaging the first assembly with a second assembly, the second assembly
including a second fiber optic connector and a second optical fiber, the second assembly
having an outer portion including a collet and an inner portion including a lock;
         initially coupling the outer and inner portions of the second assembly together with
the lock;
         radially inwardly compressing the collet assembly with the inner surface of the first
assembly to release the lock;
         axially shifting the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner portion
of the second assembly; and
         operatively connecting the first and second fiber optic connectors to each other,
thereby optically coupling the first and second optical fibers.
         8. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein axially shifting the outer portion of the
second assembly relative to the inner portion of the second assembly further comprises
controlling an axial shifting speed of the outer portion of the second assembly relative to
the inner portion of the second assembly with a resistance assembly.

                                                 24
        9. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein controlling the axial shifting speed of
the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner portion of the second
assembly with the resistance assembly further comprises metering a fluid through a
transfer piston.
        10. The method as recited in claim 7 further comprising securing the second
assembly within the first assembly by engaging the collet assembly of the outer portion of
the second assembly with a profile of the first assembly.
        11. The method as recited in claim 7 further comprising creating a biasing force
between the first and second fiber optic connectors opposing disconnection thereof by
continued axial shifting of the outer portion of the second assembly relative to the inner
portion of the second assembly after connecting the first and second fiber optic
connectors.
        12. An apparatus for controlling a connection speed of first and second downhole
connectors in a subterranean well comprising:
        a first assembly positionable in the well, the first assembly including a first
downhole connector, a first communication medium and an inner surface; and
        a second assembly including a second downhole connector and a second
communication medium, the second assembly having an outer portion including a collet
and an inner portion including a lock, the outer portion selectively axially shiftable relative
to the inner portion, the lock initially coupling the outer and inner portions of the second

                                                 25
assembly together and the collet operable to release the lock in response to being radially
inwardly compressed by engagement with the inner surface of the first assembly,
         wherein, after releasing the lock, the outer portion of the second assembly is
axially shiftable relative to the inner portion of the second assembly allowing the first and
second downhole connectors to be operatively connected to each other, thereby enabling
communication between the communication media.
         13. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 further comprising a resistance assembly
positioned between the outer portion of the second assembly and the inner portion of the
second assembly that controls an axial shifting speed at which the outer and inner
portions of the second assembly axially shift relative to one another.
         14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein the resistance assembly further
comprises a transfer piston operable to have fluid metered therethrough.
         15. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein, after connection of the first and
second downhole connectors, the collet assembly is operably engageable with a profile of
the first assembly to secure the second assembly within the first assembly.
         16. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein the first assembly further
comprises a packer and the first downhole connector of the first assembly is positioned at
a location uphole of the packer.

                                                 26
         17. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein the communication media are
selected from the group consisting of optical fibers, electrical conductors and hydraulic
fluid.
         18. An apparatus for controlling a connection speed of first and second fiber optic
connectors in a subterranean well comprising:
         a first assembly positionable in the well, the first assembly including a first fiber
optic connector, a first optical fiber and an inner surface; and
         a second assembly including a second fiber optic connector and a second optical
fiber, the second assembly having an outer portion including a collet and an inner portion
including a lock, the outer portion selectively axially shiftable relative to the inner portion,
the lock initially coupling the outer and inner portions of the second assembly together and
the collet operable to release the lock in response to being radially inwardly compressed
by engagement with the inner surface of the first assembly,
         wherein, after releasing the lock, the outer portion of the second assembly is
axially shiftable relative to the inner portion of the second assembly allowing the first and
second fiber optic connectors to be operatively connected to each other, thereby optically
coupling the first and second optical fibers.
         19. The apparatus as recited in claim 18 further comprising a resistance assembly
positioned between the outer portion of the second assembly and the inner portion of the
second assembly that controls an axial shifting speed at which the outer and inner
portions of the second assembly axially shift relative to one another.

                                              27
         20. The apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein the resistance assembly further
comprises a transfer piston operable to have fluid metered therethrough.
         21. The apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein, after connection of the first and
second fiber optic connectors, the collet assembly is operably engageable with a profile of
the first assembly to secure the second assembly within the first assembly.
         22. The apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein the first assembly further
comprises a packer and the first fiber optic connector of the first assembly is positioned at
a location uphole of the packer.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
