The present invention provides novel compositions for use to enhance weed control. Specifically, the
present invention provides for methods and compositions that modulate gene expression in Lolium.
The present invention also provides for combinations of compositions and methods that enhance
Lolium control.

                     METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR WEED CONTROL
                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
             This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
  5 61/779,532, filed March 13, 2013, and is a divisional of AU 2014248958, which is the
    national phase of PCT/US2014/023503 (WO 2014/164797), all of which are incorporated
    herein by reference in their entirety.
                                     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             The invention relates generally to the field of weed management. More specifically,
  0 the invention relates to control of Lolium weed species and compositions containing
    polynucleotide molecules. The invention further provides methods and compositions useful
    for Lolium control.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             Weeds are plants that compete with cultivated plants in an agronomic environment
  5 and cost farmers billions of dollars annually in crop losses and the expense of efforts to keep
    weeds under control. Weeds also serve as hosts for crop diseases and insect pests. Weeds
    are plants that are unwanted in any particular environment. The losses caused by weeds in
    agricultural production environments include decreases in crop yield, reduced crop quality,
    increased irrigation costs, increased harvesting costs, reduced land value, injury to livestock,
 !0 and crop damage from insects and diseases harbored by the weeds. The principal means by
    which weeds cause these effects are: 1) competing with crop plants for water, nutrients,
    sunlight and other essentials for growth and development, 2) production of toxic or irritant
    chemicals that cause human or animal health problem, 3) production of immense quantities of
    seed or vegetative reproductive parts or both that contaminate agricultural products and
25  perpetuate the species in agricultural lands, and 4) production on agricultural and
    nonagricultural lands of vast amounts of vegetation that must be disposed of. Herbicide
    tolerant weeds are a problem with nearly all herbicides in use, there is a need to effectively
    manage these weeds. There are over 365 weed biotypes currently identified as being
    herbicide resistant to one or more herbicides by the Herbicide Resistance Action Committee
30  (HRAC), the North American Herbicide Resistance Action Committee (NAHRAC), and the
    Weed Science Society of America (WSSA).
             Lolium species, include but are not limited to, Lolium canarienseSteud. - Canary
    Islands ryegrass, Lolium edwardii H.Scholz, Stierst. & Gaisberg, Lolium multiflorum Lam.
    Italian ryegrass, Lolium perenne L. - Perennial ryegrass, Lolium persicum - Persian ryegrass
                                                     I

      WO 2014/164797                                                          PCT/US2014/023503
   or Persian darnel, Lolium remotum Schrank, Lolium rigidum Gaudin - Stiff darnel, Wimmera
   ryegrass and Lolium temulentum L. - Darnel, poison darnelryegrass that include members that
   are difficult to control weeds and that have been shown to develop tolerance to several
   classes of frequently used herbicides.
 5           The present invention provides herbicidal compositions that comprise polynucleotide
   compositions useful for modulating gene expression in the Lolium weed species, Lolium
   rigidium in particular, genes providing the production of herbicide target proteins, such as,
   acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase), acetolactate synthase (ALS large subunit and ALS small
   subunit, also known as acetohydroxyacid synthase, AHAS), dihydropteroate synthetase
 0 (DHPS), 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS), glutamine synthetase
   (GS2), 4-hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate-dioxygenase (HPPD), phytoene desaturase (PDS),
   protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase (PPOX) in plants for the purpose of enhancing control of
   Lolium in an agronomic environment and for the management of herbicide resistant Lolium
   species.
 5
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The invention comprises a method of Lolium species weed control, in particular
   Lolium rigidum plant control comprising an external application of a herbicidal composition
   to a Lolium rigidum plant or a part of the Lolium rigidum plant in need of control, said
 0 herbicidal composition comprising a polynucleotide, an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and an effective dose of a nonpolynucleotide
   herbicide, wherein the polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and
   essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene
   polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1-66, wherein said treated
25 plant is more sensitive to said nonpolynucleotide herbicide relative to a similar plant treated
   with a herbicide composition not containing said polynucleotide.
            In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
30 from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1-10, and an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
   from the group consisting of aryloxyphenoxypropionates, cyclohexanediones and
   phenylpyrazoline.
                                                    2

      WO 2014/164797                                                        PCT/US2014/023503
           In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
   from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 11-21, and an organosilicone surfactant
 5 concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
   from the group consisting of sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines,
   pyrimidinyl(thio)benzoates, and sulfonylaminocarbonyl-triazolinones.
           In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
 0 essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
   from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 22-27, and an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
   from the group consisting of sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines,
   pyrimidinyl(thio)benzoates, and sulfonylaminocarbonyl-triazolinones.
 5         In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
   from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 28-32, and an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
 0 from the group consisting of sulfonamides and asulam.
           In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
   from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 33-37, and an organosilicone surfactant
25 concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
   from the group consisting of glyphosate.
           In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
30 from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 38-45, and an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
   from the group consisting of glufosinate.
           In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
                                                   3

       WO 2014/164797                                                         PCT/US2014/023503
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
   from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 46-50, and an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
   from the group consisting of triketones, isoxazoles, and pyrazoles.
 5         In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
   from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 51-56, and an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
 0 from the group consisting of pyridazinones, pyridinecarboxamides, beflubutamid, fluridone,
   flurochloridone and flurtamone.
           In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
 5 from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 57-66, and an organosilicone surfactant
   concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and a nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected
   from the group consisting of acifluorfen-Na, bifenox, chlomethoxyfen, fluoroglycofen-ethyl,
   fomesafen, halosafen, lactofen, oxyfluorfen, fluazolate, pyraflufen-ethyl, cinidon-ethyl,
   flumioxazin, flumiclorac-pentyl, fluthiacet-methyl, thidiazimin, oxadiazon, oxadiargyl,
 0 azafenidin, carfentrazone-ethyl, sulfentrazone, pentoxazone, benzfendizone, butafenacil,
   pyrazogyl, and profluazol.
           The polynucleotide of the herbicide composition is at least 19 contiguous nucleotides,
   and at least 85 percent identical to a gene sequence selected from the group consisting of
   SEQ ID NO:1-66. The polynucleotide can also be sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA,
25 dsRNA, or dsDNA, or dsDNA/RNA hybrids.
           In another aspect of the invention, the herbicide composition comprises a
   polynucleotide at least 19 contiguous nucleotide in length or at least 85 percent homologous
   to polynucleotides selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 67-155. The
   polynucleotide can also be sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or dsDNA, or
30 dsDNA/RNA hybrids.
           In a further aspect of the invention, the polynucleotide molecule containing
   composition of the invention may be combined with other herbicidal compounds in a premix
   or tankmix to provide additional control of unwanted ryegrass plants in a field of crop plants
                                                    4

       WO 2014/164797                                                           PCT/US2014/023503
   or combined with other agricultural chemicals to provide additional benefit to crop plants in a
   field treated with the herbicide composition of the invention.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5          The invention provides a method and herbicide compositions containing a
   polynucleotide that provide for regulation of herbicide target gene expression in a Lolium
   plant and enhanced control of weedy Lolium plant species and important herbicide resistant
   Lolium weed biotypes. Aspects of the method can be applied to manage Lolium plants in
   agronomic and other cultivated environments.
 0          The following definitions and methods are provided to better define the present
   invention and to guide those of ordinary skill in the art in the practice of the present
   invention. Unless otherwise noted, terms are to be understood according to conventional
   usage by those of ordinary skill in the relevant art. Where a term is provided in the singular,
   the inventors also contemplate aspects of the invention described by the plural of that term.
 5          Herbicide activity is often directed to known enzymes in a plant cell. These enzymes
   include acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase), acetolactate synthase (ALS large subunit and
   ALS small subunit, also known as acetohydroxyacid synthase, AHAS), dihydropteroate
   synthetase (DHPS), 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3 -phosphate synthase (EPSPS), glutamine
   synthetase (GS2), 4-hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate-dioxygenase (HPPD), phytoene desaturase
 0 (PDS), and protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase (PPOX). Plant genes encode for these enzymes
   and the polynucleotides that provide for the expression of these enzymes have been isolated
   from Lolium rigidum in the invention. The genes that encode for these enzymes are herein
   referred to as herbicide target genes.
            The Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) enzyme catalyzes the biotin-dependent
25 carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to produce malonyl-CoA, this is the first and the committed step
   in the biosynthesis of long-chain fatty acids. This enzyme is the target of many herbicides
   that include members of the chemical families of aryloxyphenoxypropionates,
   cyclohexanediones and phenylpyrazoline, that include, but are not limited to an
   aryloxyphenoxypropionate comprising clodinafop (Propanoic acid, 2-[4-[(5-chloro-3-fluoro
30 2-pyridinyl)oxy]phenoxy]-,2-propynyl ester, (2R)), cyhalofop (butyl(2R)-2-[4-(4-cyano-2
   fluorophenoxy)phenoxy] propionate), diclofop (methyl 2-[4-(2,4
   dichlorophenoxy)phenoxy]propanoate), fenoxaprop (ethyl (R)-2-[4-(6-chloro-1,3
   benzoxazol-2-yloxy)phenoxy]propionate), fluazifop (2R)-2-[4-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2
   pyridinyl]oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid), haloxyfop (2-[4-[[3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2
                                                     5

       WO 2014/164797                                                         PCT/US2014/023503
   pyridinyl]oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid), propaquizafop (2-[[(1
   methylethylidene)amino]oxy] ethyl (2R)-2-[4-[(6-chloro
   2quinoxalinyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoate) and quizalofop(2R)-2-[4-[(6-chloro-2
   quinoxalinyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid; a cyclohexanedione comprising alloxydim
 5 (methyl 2,2-dimethyl-4,6-dioxo-5-[(1E)-1-[(2-propen-1
   yloxy)imino]butyl]cyclohexanecarboxylate), butroxydim (2-[1-(ethoxyimino)propyl]-3
   hydroxy-5-[2,4,6-trimethyl-3-(1 -oxobutyl)phenyl]-2-cyclohexen-1-one), clethodim (2-[1
   [[[(2E)-3-chloro-2-propen-1-yl]oxy]imino]propyl]-5-[2-(ethylthio)propyl]-3-hydroxy-2
   cyclohexen-1-one), cycloxydim (2-[1-(ethoxyimino)butyl]-3-hydroxy-5-(tetrahydro-2H
 0 thiopyran-3-yl)-2-cyclohexen- 1-one), profoxydim (2-[1-[[2-(4
   chlorophenoxy)propoxy]imino]butyl]-3-hydroxy-5-(tetrahydro-2H-thiopyran-3-yl)-2
   cyclohexen-1-one), sethoxydim (2-[1-(ethoxyimino)butyl]-5-[2-(ethylthio)propyl]-3
   hydroxy-2-cyclohexen- 1-one), tepraloxydim (2-[1-[[[(2E)-3-chloro-2-propen-1
   yl]oxy]imino]propyl]-3-hydroxy-5-(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-2-cyclohexen- 1-one) and
 5 tralkoxydim (2-[1-(ethoxyimino)propyl]-3-hydroxy-5-(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)-2-cyclohexen
   1-one); a phenylpyrazoline comprising pinoxaden (8-(2,6-diethyl-4-methylphenyl)-1,2,4,5
   tetrahydro-7-oxo-7H-pyrazolo[1,2-d][1,4,5]oxadiazepin-9-yl 2,2-dimethylpropanoate).
           The ALS (acetolactate synthase, also known as acetohydroxyacid synthase, AHAS)
   enzyme catalyzes the first step in the synthesis of the branched-chain amino acids (valine,
 0 leucine, and isoleucine). This enzyme is the target of many herbicides that include members
   of the chemical families of Sulfonylureas, Imidazolinones, Triazolopyrimidines,
   Pyrimidinyl(thio)benzoates, and Sulfonylaminocarbonyl-triazolinones, amidosulfuron,
   azimsulfuron, bensulfuron-methyl, chlorimuron-ethyl, chlorsulfuron, cinosulfuron,
   cyclosulfamuron, ethametsulfuron-methyl, ethoxysulfuron, flazasulfuron, flupyrsulfuron
25 methyl-Na, foramsulfuron, halosulfuron-methyl, imazosulfuron, iodosulfuron, metsulfuron
   methyl , nicosulfuron, oxasulfuron , primisulfuron-methyl, prosulfuron, pyrazosulfuron-ethyl,
   rimsulfuron, sulfometuron-methyl, sulfosulfuron, thifensulfuron-methyl, triasulfuron,
   tribenuron-methyl, trifloxysulfuron, triflusulfuron-methyl, tritosulfuron, imazapic,
   imazamethabenz-methyl, imazamox, imazapyr, imazaquin, imazethapyr, cloransulam-methyl,
30 diclosulam, florasulam, flumetsulam, metosulam, bispyribac-Na, pyribenzoxim, pyriftalid,
   pyrithiobac-Na, pyriminobac-methyl, flucarbazone-Na, and procarbazone-Na.
           The dihydropteroate synthetase (DHPS) is an enzyme involved in folic acid synthesis
   which is needed for purine nucleotide biosynthesis. This enzyme is the target of herbicides
   that include the carbamate chemical family and sulfonamides and asulam.
                                                   6

       WO 2014/164797                                                         PCT/US2014/023503
           The EPSPS (5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) enzyme catalyzes the
   conversion of shikimate-3-phosphate into 5-enolpyruvyl-shikimate-3-phosphate, an
   intermediate in the biochemical pathway for creating three essential aromatic amino acids
   (tyrosine, phenylalanine, and tryptophan). The EPSPS enzyme is the target for the herbicide
 5 N-phosphonomethyl glycine also known as glyphosate.
           The glutamine synthetase (GS2) enzyme is an essential enzyme in the metabolism of
   nitrogen by catalyzing the condensation of glutamate and ammonia to form glutamine. This
   enzyme is the target of phosphinic acids herbicides that include glufosinate-ammonium and
   bialaphos.
 0         The 4-hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate-dioxygenase (HPPD) is an Fe-containing enzyme, that
   catalyzes the second reaction in the catabolism of tyrosine, the conversion of 4
   hydroxyphenylpyruvate to homogentisate. This enzyme is the target of many herbicides that
   include members of the chemical families of Triketones, Isoxazoles, and Pyrazoles, includes
   but are not limited to Triketones, such as, mesotrione, tefuryltrione, tembotrione, and
 5 sulcotrione; Isoxazoles, such as, isoxachlortole, pyrasulfotole, and isoxaflutole; Pyrazoles,
   such as, benzofenap, pyrazolynate, topramezone and pyrazoxyfen. Additional HPPD
   inhibitors include benzobicyclon and bicyclopyrone,
           The phytoene desaturase (PDS) enzyme is an essential enzyme in the carotenoid
   biosysnthesis pathway. This enzyme is the target of herbicides that include Pyridazinones,
 0 Pyridinecarboxamides, beflubutamid, fluridone, flurochloridone and flurtamone.
           Protoporphyrinogen oxidase (PPOX) catalyses the oxidation of protoporphyrinogen
   IX to protoporphyrin IX during the synthesis of tetrapyrrole molecules. PPOX inhibitor
   herbicide, which include but is not limited to acifluorfen-Na, bifenox, chlomethoxyfen,
   fluoroglycofen-ethyl, fomesafen, halosafen, lactofen, oxyfluorfen, fluazolate, pyraflufen
25 ethyl, cinidon-ethyl, flumioxazin, flumiclorac-pentyl, fluthiacet-methyl, thidiazimin,
   oxadiazon, oxadiargyl, azafenidin, carfentrazone-ethyl, sulfentrazone, pentoxazone,
   benzfendizone, butafenacil, pyrazogyl, and profluazol.
           As used herein "solution" refers to homogeneous mixtures and non-homogeneous
   mixtures such as suspensions, colloids, micelles, and emulsions.
30         Weedy plants are plants that compete with cultivated plants, those of particular
   importance include, but are not limited to important invasive and noxious weeds and
   herbicide resistant biotypes in crop production, such as, Amaranthus species -A. albus, A.
   blitoides, A. hybridus, A. palmer, A. powellii, A. retroflexus, A. spinosus, A. tuberculatus,
   and A. viridis;Ambrosia species - A. trifida, A. artemisifolia;Lolium species -L. multiflorum,
                                                   7

       WO 2014/164797                                                         PCT/US2014/023503
   L. rigidium, L perenne; Digitariaspecies -D. insularis;Euphorbiaspecies -E. heterophylla;
   Kochia species - K. scoparia;Lolium species -S. halepense; Conyza species -C. bonariensis,
   C. canadensis, C. sumatrensis; Chloris species -C. truncate;Echinochola species - E. colona,
   E. crus-galli; Eleusine species -E. indica;Poa species -P. annua;Plantago species -P.
 5 lanceolata;Avena species - A. fatua; Chenopodium species - C. album; Setaria species - S.
   viridis, Abutilon theophrasti, Ipomoea species, Sesbania, species, Cassia species, Sida
   species, Brachiaria,species and Solanum species.
            Lolium weed species include, but are not limited to Lolium canarienseSteud.
   Canary Islands ryegrass, Lolium edwardii H.Scholz, Stierst. & Gaisberg, Lolium multiflorum
 0 Lam. - Italian ryegrass, Lolium perenne L. - Perennial ryegrass, Lolium persicum - Persian
   ryegrass or Persian damel, Lolium remotum Schrank, Lolium rigidum Gaudin - Stiff darnel,
   Wimmera ryegrass and Lolium temulentum L. - Damel, poison darnelryegrass. The
   polynucleotide molecules of the invention were isolated from Lolium rigidum and may be
   applicable in the method and compositions to provide control of the Lolium weed species
 5 other than Lolium rigidum where sufficient homology and complementarity of the molecules
   exist.
            It is contemplated that the composition of the present invention will contain multiple
   polynucleotides and herbicides that include any one or more polynucleotides identical or
   complementary to a segment of the any one or more herbicide target gene sequences, and the
 0 corresponding nonpolynucleotide herbicides. Additionally, the composition may contain a
   pesticide, where the pesticide is selected from the group consisting of insecticides,
   fungicides, nematocides, bactericides, acaricides, growth regulators, chemosterilants,
   semiochemicals, repellents, attractants, pheromones, feeding stimulants, and biopesticides.
   Any one or more of these compounds can be added to the trigger oligonucleotide to form a
25 multi-component pesticide giving an even broader spectrum of agricultural protection.
   Examples of such agricultural protectants with which compounds of this invention can be
   formulated are: insecticides such as abamectin, acephate, azinphos-methyl, bifenthrin,
   buprofezin, carbofuran, chlorfenapyr, chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos-methyl, cyfluthrin, beta
   cyfluthrin, cyhalothrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, deltamethrin, diafenthiuron, diazinon,
30 diflubenzuron, dimethoate, esfenvalerate, fenoxycarb, fenpropathrin, fenvalerate, fipronil,
   flucythrinate, tau-fluvalinate, fonophos, imidacloprid, isofenphos, malathion, metaldehyde,
   methamidophos, methidathion, methomyl, methoprene, methoxychlor, methyl 7-chloro-2,5
   dihydro-2-[[N-(methoxycarbonyl)-N-[4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl
   ]amino] carbonyl]indeno [1,2-e] [1,3,4]oxadiazine-4a(3H)-carboxylate (DPX-JW062),
                                                    8

       WO 2014/164797                                                           PCT/US2014/023503
   monocrotophos, oxamyl, parathion, parathion-methyl, permethrin, phorate, phosalone,
   phosmet, phosphamidon, pirimicarb, profenofos, rotenone, sulprofos, tebufenozide,
   tefluthrin, terbufos, tetrachlorvinphos, thiodicarb, tralomethrin, trichlorfon and triflumuron;
   most preferably a glyphosate compound is formulated with a fungicide compound or
 5 combinations of fungicides, such as azoxystrobin, benomyl, blasticidin-S, Bordeaux mixture
   (tribasic copper sulfate), bromuconazole, captafol, captan, carbendazim, chloroneb,
   chlorothalonil, copper oxychloride, copper salts, cymoxanil, cyproconazole, cyprodinil (CGA
   219417), diclomezine, dicloran, difenoconazole, dimethomorph, diniconazole, diniconazole
   M, dodine, edifenphos, epoxiconazole (BAS 480F), famoxadone, fenarimol, fenbuconazole,
 0 fenpiclonil, fenpropidin, fenpropimorph, fluazinam, fluquinconazole, flusilazole, flutolanil,
   flutriafol, folpet, fosetyl-aluminum, furalaxyl, hexaconazole, ipconazole, iprobenfos,
   iprodione, isoprothiolane, kasugamycin, kresoxim-methyl, mancozeb, maneb, mepronil,
   metalaxyl, metconazole, S-methyl 7-benzothiazolecarbothioate (CGA 245704), myclobutanil,
   neo-asozin (ferric methanearsonate), oxadixyl, penconazole, pencycuron, probenazole,
 5 prochloraz, propiconazole, pyrifenox, pyroquilon, quinoxyfen, spiroxamine (KWG4168),
   sulfur, tebuconazole, tetraconazole, thiabendazole, thiophanate-methyl, thiram, triadimefon,
   triadimenol, tricyclazole, trifloxystrobin, triticonazole, validamycin and vinclozolin;
   combinations of fungicides are common for example, cyproconazole and azoxystrobin,
   difenoconazole, and metalaxyl-M, fludioxonil and metalaxyl-M, mancozeb and metalaxyl-M,
 0 copper hydroxide and metalaxyl-M, cyprodinil and fludioxonil, cyproconazole and
   propiconazole; commercially available fungicide formulations for control of Asian soybean
   rust disease include, but are not limited to Quadris@ (Syngenta Corp), Bravo@ (Syngenta
   Corp), Echo 720@ (Sipcam Agro Inc), Headline@ 2.09EC (BASF Corp), Tilt® 3.6EC
   (Syngenta Corp), PropiMax TM 3.6EC (Dow AgroSciences), Bumper@ 41.8EC
25 (MakhteshimAgan), Folicur@ 3.6F (Bayer CropScience), Laredo® 25EC (Dow
   AgroSciences), Laredo TM 25EW (Dow AgroSciences), Stratego@ 2.08F (Bayer Corp),
   Domark TM 125SL (Sipcam Agro USA), and Pristine@38%WDG (BASF Corp) these can be
   combined with glyphosate compositions as described in the present invention to provide
   enhanced protection from soybean rust disease; nematocides such as aldoxycarb and
30 fenamiphos; bactericides such as streptomycin; acaricides such as amitraz, chinomethionat,
   chlorobenzilate, cyhexatin, dicofol, dienochlor, etoxazole, fenazaquin, fenbutatin oxide,
   fenpropathrin, fenpyroximate, hexythiazox, propargite, pyridaben and tebufenpyrad; and
   biological agents such as Bacillus thuringiensis,Bacillus thuringiensisdelta endotoxin,
   baculovirus, and entomopathogenic bacteria, virus and fungi.
                                                     9

      WO 2014/164797                                                            PCT/US2014/023503
           Numerous nonpolynucleotide herbicides are available that can be added to the
   composition of the present invention at effective rates for weed control, for example,
   members of the herbicide families that include but are not limited to amide herbicides,
   aromatic acid herbicides, arsenical herbicides, benzothiazole herbicides,
 5 benzoylcyclohexanedione herbicides, benzofuranyl alkylsulfonate herbicides, carbamate
   herbicides, cyclohexene oxime herbicides, cyclopropylisoxazole herbicides, dicarboximide
   herbicides, dinitroaniline herbicides, dinitrophenol herbicides, diphenyl ether herbicides,
   dithiocarbamate herbicides, halogenated aliphatic herbicides, imidazolinone herbicides,
   inorganic herbicides, nitrile herbicides, organophosphorus herbicides, oxadiazolone
 0 herbicides, oxazole herbicides, phenoxy herbicides, phenylenediamine herbicides, pyrazole
   herbicides, pyridazine herbicides, pyridazinone herbicides, pyridine herbicides,
   pyrimidinediamine herbicides, pyrimidinyloxybenzylamine herbicides, quaternary
   ammonium herbicides, thiocarbamate herbicides, thiocarbonate herbicides, thiourea
   herbicides, triazine herbicides, triazinone herbicides, triazole herbicides, triazolone
 5 herbicides, triazolopyrimidine herbicides, uracil herbicides, and urea herbicides. In particular,
   the rates of use of the added herbicides can be reduced in compositions comprising the
   polynucleotides of the invention. Use rate reductions of the additional added herbicides can
   be 10-25 percent, 26-50 percent, 51-75 percent or more can be achieved that enhance the
   activity of the polynucleotides and herbicide composition and is contemplated as an aspect of
 0 the invention.
           An agronomic field in need of Lolium plant control is treated by application of the
   herbicide composition of the present invention directly to the surface of the growing plants,
   such as by a spray. For example, the method is applied to control Lolium in a field of crop
   plants by spraying the field with the composition. The composition can be provided as a tank
25 mix, a sequential treatment of components (generally the polynucleotide containing
   composition followed by the herbicide), or a simultaneous treatment or mixing of one or
   more of the components of the composition from separate containers. Treatment of the field
   can occur as often as needed to provide weed control and the components of the composition
   can be adjusted to target specific Lolium herbicide target genes through utilization of specific
30 polynucleotides or polynucleotide compositions identical or complementary to the gene
   sequences. The composition can be applied at effective use rates according to the time of
   application to the field, for example, preplant, at planting, post planting, post-harvest. The
   nonpolynucleotide herbicides can be applied to a field at effective rates of 1 to 2000 g ai/ha
   (active ingredient per hectare) or more. The polynucleotides of the composition can be
                                                   10

      WO 2014/164797                                                              PCT/US2014/023503
   applied at rates of 1 to 30 grams per acre depending on the number of polynucleotide
   molecules as needed for effective Lolium control.
            Crop plants in which Lolium weed control is needed include but are not limited to, i)
   corn, soybean, cotton, canola, sugar beet, alfalfa, sugarcane, rice, and wheat; ii) vegetable
 5 plants including, but not limited to, tomato, sweet pepper, hot pepper, melon, watermelon,
   cucumber, eggplant, cauliflower, broccoli, lettuce, spinach, onion, peas, carrots, sweet corn,
   Chinese cabbage, leek, fennel, pumpkin, squash or gourd, radish, Brussels sprouts, tomatillo,
   garden beans, dry beans, or okra; iii) culinary plants including, but not limited to, basil,
   parsley, coffee, or tea; or, iv) fruit plants including but not limited to apple, pear, cherry,
 0 peach, plum, apricot, banana, plantain, table grape, wine grape, citrus, avocado, mango, or
   berry; v) a tree grown for ornamental or commercial use, including, but not limited to, a fruit
   or nut tree; or, vi) an ornamental plant (e. g., an ornamental flowering plant or shrub or turf
   grass). The methods and compositions provided herein can also be applied to plants
   produced by a cutting, cloning, or grafting process (i. e., a plant not grown from a seed)
 5 include fruit trees and plants that include, but are not limited to, citrus, apples, avocados,
   tomatoes, eggplant, cucumber, melons, watermelons, and grapes as well as various
   ornamental plants. The crop plants can be transgenic and genetically engineered or
   genetically selected to be resistant to one or more of the nonpolynucleotide herbicides.
 0 Polynucleotides
            As used herein, the term "DNA", "DNA molecule", "DNA polynucleotide molecule"
   refers to a single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) or double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) molecule of
   genomic or synthetic origin, such as, a polymer of deoxyribonucleotide bases or a DNA
   polynucleotide molecule. As used herein, the term "DNA sequence", "DNA nucleotide
25 sequence" or "DNA polynucleotide sequence" refers to the nucleotide sequence of a DNA
   molecule. As used herein, the term "RNA", "RNA molecule", "RNA polynucleotide
   molecule" refers to a single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) or double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)
   molecule of genomic or synthetic origin, such as, a polymer of ribonucleotide bases that
   comprise single or double stranded regions. Unless otherwise stated, nucleotide sequences in
30 the text of this specification are given, when read from left to right, in the 5' to 3' direction.
   The nomenclature used herein is that required by Title 37 of the United States Code of
   Federal Regulations § 1.822 and set forth in the tables in WIPO Standard ST.25 (1998),
   Appendix 2, Tables 1 and 3.
                                                     11

       WO 2014/164797                                                            PCT/US2014/023503
            As used herein, "polynucleotide" refers to a DNA or RNA molecule containing
   multiple nucleotides and generally refers both to "oligonucleotides" (a polynucleotide
   molecule of typically 50 or fewer nucleotides in length) and polynucleotides of 51 or more
   nucleotides. Embodiments of this invention include compositions including oligonucleotides
 5 having a length of 19-25 nucleotides (19-mers, 20-mers, 21-mers, 22-mers, 23-mers, 24
   mers, or 25-mers), or medium-length polynucleotides having a length of 26 or more
   nucleotides (polynucleotides of 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 46, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41,
   42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, about 65, about 70,
   about 75, about 80, about 85, about 90, about 95, about 100, about 110, about 120, about 130,
 0 about 140, about 150, about 160, about 170, about 180, about 190, about 200, about 210,
   about 220, about 230, about 240, about 250, about 260, about 270, about 280, about 290, or
   about 300 nucleotides), or long polynucleotides having a length greater than about 300
   nucleotides (for example, polynucleotides of between about 300 to about 400 nucleotides,
   between about 400 to about 500 nucleotides, between about 500 to about 600 nucleotides,
 5 between about 600 to about 700 nucleotides, between about 700 to about 800 nucleotides,
   between about 800 to about 900 nucleotides, between about 900 to about 1000 nucleotides,
   between about 300 to about 500 nucleotides, between about 300 to about 600 nucleotides,
   between about 300 to about 700 nucleotides, between about 300 to about 800 nucleotides,
   between about 300 to about 900 nucleotides, or about 1000 nucleotides in length, or even
 0 greater than about 1000 nucleotides in length, for example up to the entire length of a
   herbicide target gene including coding or non-coding or both coding and non-coding portions
   of the target gene). A herbicide target gene comprises any polynucleotide molecule of the
   gene in a plant cell or fragment thereof for which the modulation of the expression of the
   herbicide target gene product is provided by the methods and compositions of the present
25 invention. Where a polynucleotide is double-stranded, its length can be similarly described
   in terms of base pairs. Oligonucleotides and polynucleotides of the present invention can be
   made that are essentially identical or essentially complementary to adjacent genetic elements
   of a gene, for example, spanning the junction region of an intron and exon, the junction
   region of a promoter and a transcribed region, the junction region of a 5' leader and a coding
30 sequence, the junction of a 3' untranslated region and a coding sequence.
            Polynucleotide compositions used in the various embodiments of this invention
   include compositions including oligonucleotides or polynucleotides or a mixture of both,
   including RNA or DNA or RNA/DNA hybrids or chemically modified oligonucleotides or
   polynucleotides or a mixture thereof. In some embodiments, the polynucleotide may be a
                                                    12

       WO 2014/164797                                                       PCT/US2014/023503
   combination of ribonucleotides and deoxyribonucleotides, for example, synthetic
   polynucleotides consisting mainly of ribonucleotides but with one or more terminal
   deoxyribonucleotides or synthetic polynucleotides consisting mainly of deoxyribonucleotides
   but with one or more terminal dideoxyribonucleotides. In some embodiments, the
 5 polynucleotide includes non-canonical nucleotides such as inosine, thiouridine, or
   pseudouridine. In some embodiments, the polynucleotide includes chemically modified
   nucleotides. Examples of chemically modified oligonucleotides or polynucleotides are well
   known in the art; see, for example, US Patent Publication 20110171287, US Patent
   Publication 20110171176, and US Patent Publication 20110152353, US Patent Publication,
 0 20110152346, US Patent Publication 20110160082, herein incorporated by reference. For
   example, including but not limited to the naturally occurring phosphodiester backbone of an
   oligonucleotide or polynucleotide can be partially or completely modified with
   phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, or methylphosphonate intemucleotide linkage
   modifications, modified nucleoside bases or modified sugars can be used in oligonucleotide
 5 or polynucleotide synthesis, and oligonucleotides or polynucleotides can be labeled with a
   fluorescent moiety (for example, fluorescein or rhodamine) or other label (for example,
   biotin).
            The polynucleotides can be single- or double-stranded RNA or single- or double
   stranded DNA or double-stranded DNA/RNA hybrids or modified analogues thereof, and can
 0 be of oligonucleotide lengths or longer. In more specific embodiments of the invention the
   polynucleotides that provide single-stranded RNA in the plant cell are selected from the
   group consisting of (a) a single-stranded RNA molecule (ssRNA), (b) a single-stranded RNA
   molecule that self-hybridizes to form a double-stranded RNA molecule, (c) a double-stranded
   RNA molecule (dsRNA), (d) a single-stranded DNA molecule (ssDNA), (e) a single-stranded
25 DNA molecule that self-hybridizes to form a double-stranded DNA molecule, and (f) a
   single-stranded DNA molecule including a modified Pol III gene that is transcribed to an
   RNA molecule, (g) a double-stranded DNA molecule (dsDNA), (h) a double-stranded DNA
   molecule including a modified Pol III gene that is transcribed to an RNA molecule, (i) a
   double-stranded, hybridized RNA/DNA molecule, or combinations thereof. In some
30 embodiments these polynucleotides include chemically modified nucleotides or non
   canonical nucleotides. In embodiments of the method the polynucleotides include double
   stranded DNA formed by intramolecular hybridization, double-stranded DNA formed by
   intermolecular hybridization, double-stranded RNA formed by intramolecular hybridization,
   or double-stranded RNA formed by intermolecular hybridization. In one embodiment the
                                                  13

       WO 2014/164797                                                          PCT/US2014/023503
   polynucleotides include single-stranded DNA or single-stranded RNA that self-hybridizes to
   form a hairpin structure having an at least partially double-stranded structure including at
   least one segment that will hybridize to RNA transcribed from the gene targeted for
   suppression. Not intending to be bound by any mechanism, it is believed that such
 5 polynucleotides are or will produce single-stranded RNA with at least one segment that will
   hybridize to RNA transcribed from the gene targeted for suppression. In certain other
   embodiments the polynucleotides further includes a promoter, generally a promoter
   functional in a plant, for example, a pol II promoter, a pol III promoter, a pol IV promoter, or
   a pol V promoter.
 0         The term "gene" refers to chromosomal DNA, plasmid DNA, cDNA, intron and exon
   DNA, artificial DNA polynucleotide, or other DNA that encodes a peptide, polypeptide,
   protein, or RNA transcript molecule, and the genetic elements flanking the coding sequence
   that are involved in the regulation of expression, such as, promoter regions, 5' leader regions,
   3' untranslated regions. Any of the components of the herbicide target gene are potential
 5 targets for the oligonucleotides and polynucleotides of the present invention.
           The polynucleotide molecules of the present invention are designed to modulate
   expression by inducing regulation or suppression of an endogenous herbicide target gene in a
   ryegrass plant and are designed to have a nucleotide sequence essentially identical or
   essentially complementary to the nucleotide sequence of the gene or to the sequence of RNA
 0 transcribed from the target gene, which can be coding sequence or non-coding sequence.
   These effective polynucleotide molecules that modulate expression are referred to as "a
   trigger, or triggers". By "essentially identical" or "essentially complementary" is meant that
   the trigger polynucleotides (or at least one strand of a double-stranded polynucleotide or
   portion thereof, or a portion of a single strand polynucleotide) are designed to hybridize to the
25 endogenous gene noncoding sequence (including promoters and regulatory elements of the
   gene) or to RNA transcribed (known as messenger RNA or an RNA transcript) from the
   endogenous gene to effect regulation or suppression of expression of the endogenous gene.
   Trigger molecules are identified by "tiling" the gene targets with partially overlapping probes
   or non-overlapping probes of antisense or sense polynucleotides that are essentially identical
30 or essentially complementary to the nucleotide sequence of an endogenous gene. Multiple
   target sequences can be aligned and sequence regions with homology in common, according
   to the methods of the present invention, are identified as potential trigger molecules for the
   multiple targets. Multiple trigger molecules of various lengths, for example 19-25
   nucleotides, 26-50 nucleotides, 5 1-100 nucleotides, 101-200 nucleotides, 201-300 nucleotides
                                                    14

      WO 2014/164797                                                          PCT/US2014/023503
   or more can be pooled into a few treatments in order to investigate polynucleotide molecules
   that cover a portion of a gene sequence (for example, a portion of a coding versus a portion of
   a noncoding region, or a 5' versus a 3' portion of a gene) or an entire gene sequence
   including coding and noncoding regions of a target gene. Polynucleotide molecules of the
 5 pooled trigger molecules can be divided into smaller pools or single molecules inorder to
   identify trigger molecules that provide the desired effect.
            The herbicide target gene RNA and DNA polynucleotide molecules are sequenced by
   any number of available methods and equipment. Some of the sequencing technologies are
   available commercially, such as the sequencing-by-hybridization platform from Affymetrix
 0 Inc. (Sunnyvale, Calif.) and the sequencing-by-synthesis platforms from 454 Life Sciences
   (Bradford, Conn.), Illumina/Solexa (Hayward, Calif.) and Helicos Biosciences (Cambridge,
   Mass.), and the sequencing-by-ligation platform from Applied Biosystems (Foster City,
   Calif.), as described below. In addition to the single molecule sequencing performed using
   sequencing-by-synthesis of Helicos Biosciences, other single molecule sequencing
 5 technologies are encompassed by the method of the invention and include the SMRT.TM.
   technology of Pacific Biosciences, the Ion Torrent.TM. technology, and nanopore sequencing
   being developed for example, by Oxford Nanopore Technologies.
            Embodiments of single-stranded polynucleotides functional in this invention have
   sequence complementarity that need not be 100 percent, but is at least sufficient to permit
 0 hybridization to RNA transcribed from the herbicide target gene or DNA of the herbicide
   target gene to form a duplex to permit a gene silencing mechanism. Thus, in embodiments, a
   polynucleotide fragment is designed to be essentially identical to, or essentially
   complementary to, a sequence of 19 or more contiguous nucleotides in either DNA gene
   sequence or messenger RNA transcribed from the target gene. By "essentially identical" is
25 meant having 100 percent sequence identity or at least about 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90,
   91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, or 99 percent sequence identity when compared to the sequence
   of 19 or more contiguous nucleotides in either the target gene or RNA transcribed from the
   target gene; by "essentially complementary" is meant having 100 percent sequence
   complementarity or at least about 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98,
30 or 99 percent sequence complementarity when compared to the sequence of 19 or more
   contiguous nucleotides in either the target gene or RNA transcribed from the target gene. In
   some embodiments of this invention polynucleotide molecules are designed to have 100
   percent sequence identity with or complementarity to one allele or one family member of a
   given target gene (coding or non-coding sequence of a gene for of the present invention); in
                                                   15

       WO 2014/164797                                                         PCT/US2014/023503
   other embodiments the polynucleotide molecules are designed to have 100 percent sequence
   identity with or complementarity to multiple alleles or family members of a given target
   gene.
            In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides used in the compositions that are
 5 essentially identical or essentially complementary to the target gene or transcript will
   comprise the predominant nucleic acid in the composition. Thus in certain embodiments, the
   polynucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially complementary to the target gene
   or transcript will comprise at least about 50%, 75%, 95%, 98% or 100% of the nucleic acids
   provided in the composition by either mass or molar concentration. However, in certain
 0 embodiments, the polynucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially complementary
   to the target gene or transcript can comprise at least about 1% to about 50%, about 10% to
   about 50%, about 20% to about 50%, or about 30% to about 50% of the nucleic acids
   provided in the composition by either mass or molar concentration. Also provided are
   compositions where the polynucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially
 5 complementary to the target gene or transcript can comprise at least about 1% to 100%, about
   10% to 100%, about 20% to about 100%, about 30% to about 50%, or about 50% to a 100%
   of the nucleic acids provided in the composition by either mass or molar concentration.
            "Identity" refers to the degree of similarity between two polynucleic acid or protein
   sequences. An alignment of the two sequences is performed by a suitable computer program.
 0 A widely used and accepted computer program for performing sequence alignments is
   CLUSTALW v1.6 (Thompson, et al. Nucl. Acids Res., 22: 4673-4680, 1994). The number of
   matching bases or amino acids is divided by the total number of bases or amino acids, and
   multiplied by 100 to obtain a percent identity. For example, if two 580 base pair sequences
   had 145 matched bases, they would be 25 percent identical. If the two compared sequences
25 are of different lengths, the number of matches is divided by the shorter of the two lengths.
   For example, if there are 100 matched amino acids between a 200 and a 400 amino acid
   protein, they are 50 percent identical with respect to the shorter sequence. If the shorter
   sequence is less than 150 bases or 50 amino acids in length, the number of matches are
   divided by 150 (for nucleic acid bases) or 50 (for amino acids), and multiplied by 100 to
30 obtain a percent identity.
            Trigger molecules for specific herbicide target gene family members can be identified
   from coding and/or non-coding sequences of gene families of a plant or multiple plants, by
   aligning and selecting 200-300 polynucleotide fragments from the least homologous regions
   amongst the aligned sequences and evaluated using topically applied polynucleotides (as
                                                    16

       WO 2014/164797                                                        PCT/US2014/023503
   sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or dsDNA) to determine their relative
   effectiveness in inducing the herbicidal phenotype. The effective segments are further
   subdivided into 50-60 polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by least homology, and
   reevaluated using topically applied polynucleotides. The effective 50-60 polynucleotide
 5 fragments are subdivided into 19-30 polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by least homology,
   and again evaluated for induction of the yield/quality phenotype. Once relative effectiveness
   is determined, the fragments are utilized singly, or again evaluated in combination with one
   or more other fragments to determine the trigger composition or mixture of trigger
   polynucleotides for providing the yield/quality phenotype.
 0         Trigger molecules for broad activity against Lolium weed species can be identified
   from coding and/or non-coding sequences of gene families of a plant or multiple plants, by
   aligning and selecting 200-300 polynucleotide fragments from the most homologous regions
   amongst the aligned sequences and evaluated using topically applied polynucleotides (as
   sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or dsDNA) to determine their relative
 5 effectiveness in inducing the yield/quality phenotype. The effective segments are subdivided
   into 50-60 polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by most homology, and reevaluated using
   topically applied polynucleotides. The effective 50-60 polynucleotide fragments are
   subdivided into 19-30 polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by most homology, and again
   evaluated for induction of the yield/quality phenotype. Once relative effectiveness is
 0 determined, the fragments may be utilized singly, or in combination with one or more other
   fragments to determine the trigger composition or mixture of trigger polynucleotides for
   providing the yield/quality phenotype.
           Methods of making polynucleotides are well known in the art. Chemical synthesis, in
   vivo synthesis and in vitro synthesis methods and compositions are known in the art and
25 include various viral elements, microbial cells, modified polymerases, and modified
   nucleotides. Commercial preparation of oligonucleotides often provides two
   deoxyribonucleotides on the 3' end of the sense strand. Long polynucleotide molecules can
   be synthesized from commercially available kits, for example, kits from Applied
   Biosystems/Ambion (Austin, TX) have DNA ligated on the 5' end in a microbial expression
30 cassette that includes a bacterial T7 polymerase promoter that makes RNA strands that can be
   assembled into a dsRNA and kits provided by various manufacturers that include T7
   RiboMax Express (Promega, Madison, WI), AmpliScribe T7-Flash (Epicentre, Madison,
   WI), and TranscriptAid T7 High Yield (Fermentas, Glen Burnie, MD). dsRNA molecules
   can be produced from microbial expression cassettes in bacterial cells (Ongvarrasopone et al.
                                                  17

       WO 2014/164797                                                            PCT/US2014/023503
   ScienceAsia 33:35-39; Yin, Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol 84:323-333, 2009; Liu et al., BMC
   Biotechnology 10:85, 2010) that have regulated or deficient RNase III enzyme activity or the
   use of various viral vectors to produce sufficient quantities of dsRNA. In some embodiments
   design parameters such as Reynolds score (Reynolds et al. Nature Biotechnology 22, 326
 5 330 (2004) and Tuschl rules (Pei and Tuschl, Nature Methods 3(9): 670-676, 2006) are
   known in the art and are used in selecting polynucleotide sequences effective in gene
   silencing. In some embodiments random design or empirical selection of polynucleotide
   sequences is used in selecting polynucleotide sequences effective in gene silencing. In some
   embodiments the sequence of a polynucleotide is screened against the genomic DNA of the
 0 intended plant to minimize unintentional silencing of other genes.
           The polynucleotide compositions of this invention are useful in compositions, such as
   solutions of polynucleotide molecules, at low concentrations, alone or in combination with
   other components either in the same solution or in separately applied solutions that provide a
   permeability-enhancing agent. While there is no upper limit on the concentrations and
 5 dosages of polynucleotide molecules that can useful in the methods of this invention, lower
   effective concentrations and dosages will generally be sought for efficiency. The
   concentrations can be adjusted in consideration of the volume of spray or treatment applied to
   plant leaves or other plant part surfaces, such as flower petals, stems, tubers, fruit, anthers,
   pollen, or seed. In one embodiment, a useful treatment for herbaceous plants using 25-mer
 0 oligonucleotide molecules is about 1 nanomole (nM) of oligonucleotide molecules per plant,
   for example, from about 0.05 to 1 nM per plant. Other embodiments for herbaceous plants
   include useful ranges of about 0.05 to about 100 nM , or about 0.1 to about 20 nM, or about 1
   nM to about 10 nM of polynucleotides per plant. To illustrate embodiments of the invention,
   the factor 1X, when applied to oligonucleotide molecules is arbitrarily used to denote a
25 treatment of 0.8 nM of polynucleotide molecule per plant; lOX, 8 nM of polynucleotide
   molecule per plant; and 1OOX, 80 nM of polynucleotide molecule per plant.
           The polynucleotide compositions of this invention are useful in compositions, such as
   liquids that comprise polynucleotide molecules, alone or in combination with other
   components either in the same liquid or in separately applied liquids that provide a transfer
30 agent. As used herein, a transfer agent is an agent that, when combined with a polynucleotide
   in a composition that is topically applied to a target plant surface, enables the
   polynucleotide to enter a plant cell. In certain embodiments, a transfer agent is an agent that
   conditions the surface of plant tissue, e. g., leaves, stems, roots, flowers, or fruits, to
   permeation by the polynucleotide molecules into plant cells. The transfer of polynucleotides
                                                     18

       WO 2014/164797                                                            PCT/US2014/023503
   into plant cells can be facilitated by the prior or contemporaneous application of a
   polynucleotide-transferring agent to the plant tissue. In some embodiments the transferring
   agent is applied subsequent to the application of the polynucleotide composition. The
   polynucleotide transfer agent enables a pathway for polynucleotides through cuticle wax
 5 barriers, stomata and/or cell wall or membrane barriers into plant cells. Suitable transfer
   agents to facilitate transfer of the polynucleotide into a plant cell include agents that increase
   permeability of the exterior of the plant or that increase permeability of plant cells to
   oligonucleotides or polynucleotides. Such agents to facilitate transfer of the composition into
   a plant cell include a chemical agent, or a physical agent, or combinations thereof. Chemical
 0 agents for conditioning or transfer include (a) surfactants, (b) an organic solvent or an
   aqueous solution or aqueous mixtures of organic solvents, (c) oxidizing agents, (d) acids, (e)
   bases, (f) oils, (g) enzymes, or combinations thereof. Embodiments of the method can
   optionally include an incubation step, a neutralization step (e.g., to neutralize an acid, base, or
   oxidizing agent, or to inactivate an enzyme), a rinsing step, or combinations thereof.
 5 Embodiments of agents or treatments for conditioning of a plant to permeation by
   polynucleotides include emulsions, reverse emulsions, liposomes, and other micellar-like
   compositions. Embodiments of agents or treatments for conditioning of a plant to permeation
   by polynucleotides include counter-ions or other molecules that are known to associate with
   nucleic acid molecules, e. g., inorganic ammonium ions, alkyl ammonium ions, lithium ions,
 0 polyamines such as spermine, spermidine, or putrescine, and other cations. Organic solvents
   useful in conditioning a plant to permeation by polynucleotides include DMSO, DMF,
   pyridine, N-pyrrolidine, hexamethylphosphoramide, acetonitrile, dioxane, polypropylene
   glycol, other solvents miscible with water or that will dissolve phosphonucleotides in non
   aqueous systems (such as is used in synthetic reactions). Naturally derived or synthetic oils
25 with or without surfactants or emulsifiers can be used, e. g., plant-sourced oils, crop oils, such
   as those listed in the  9 th Compendium of Herbicide Adjuvants, can be used, e. g., paraffinic
   oils, polyol fatty acid esters, or oils with short-chain molecules modified with amides or
   polyamines such as polyethyleneimine or N-pyrrolidine. Transfer agents include, but are not
   limited to, organosilicone preparations.
30         In certain embodiments, an organosilicone preparation that is commercially available
   as Silwet@ L-77 surfactant having CAS Number 27306-78-1 and EPA Number:
   CAL.REG.NO. 5905-50073-AA, and currently available from Momentive Performance
   Materials, Albany, New York can be used to prepare a polynucleotide composition. In
   certain embodiments where a Silwet L-77 organosilicone preparation is used as a pre-spray
                                                     19

       WO 2014/164797                                                                 PCT/US2014/023503
   treatment of plant leaves or other plant surfaces, freshly made concentrations in the range of
   about 0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e. g., about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025,
   0.03, 0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07, 0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1,
   0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2,
 5 2.3, 2.5 wt percent) are efficacious in preparing a leaf or other plant surface for transfer of
   polynucleotide molecules into plant cells from a topical application on the surface. In certain
   embodiments of the methods and compositions provided herein, a composition that comprises
   a polynucleotide molecule and an organosilicone preparation comprising Silwet L-77 in the
   range of about 0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e. g., about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02,
 0 0.025, 0.03, 0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07, 0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095,
   0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1,
   2.2, 2.3, 2.5 wt percent) is used or provided.
            In certain embodiments, any of the commercially available organosilicone
   preparations provided such as the following Breakthru S 321, Breakthru S 200 Cat# 67674
 5 67-3, Breakthru OE 441 Cat#68937-55-3, Breakthru S 278 Cat #27306-78-1, Breakthru S
   243, Breakthru S 233 Cat#134180-76-0, available from manufacturer Evonik Goldschmidt
   (Germany), Silwet@ HS 429, Silwet@ HS 312, Silwet@ HS 508, Silwet@ HS 604
   (Momentive Performance Materials, Albany, New York) can be used as transfer agents in a
   polynucleotide composition. In certain embodiments where an organosilicone preparation is
 0 used as a pre-spray treatment of plant leaves or other surfaces, freshly made concentrations in
   the range of about 0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e. g., about 0.01, 0.015,
   0.02, 0.025, 0.03, 0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07, 0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09,
   0.095, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0,
   2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5 wt percent) are efficacious in preparing a leaf or other plant surface for
25 transfer of polynucleotide molecules into plant cells from a topical application on the surface.
   In certain embodiments of the methods and compositions provided herein, a composition that
   comprises a polynucleotide molecule and an organosilicone preparation in the range of about
   0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e. g., about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025, 0.03,
   0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07, 0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1, 0.2,
30 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3,
   2.5 wt percent) is used or provided.
            Organosilicone preparations used in the methods and compositions provided herein
   can comprise one or more effective organosilicone compounds. As used herein, the phrase
   "effective organosilicone compound" is used to describe any organosilicone compound that is
                                                       20

      WO 2014/164797                                                              PCT/US2014/023503
   found in an organosilicone preparation that enables a polynucleotide to enter a plant cell. In
   certain embodiments, an effective organosilicone compound can enable a polynucleotide to
   enter a plant cell in a manner permitting a polynucleotide mediated suppression of a target
   gene expression in the plant cell. In general, effective organosilicone compounds include, but
 5 are not limited to, compounds that can comprise: i) a trisiloxane head group that is covalently
   linked to, ii) an alkyl linker including, but not limited to, an n-propyl linker, that is covalently
   linked to, iii) a poly glycol chain, that is covalently linked to, iv) a terminal group.
   Trisiloxane head groups of such effective organosilicone compounds include, but are not
   limited to, heptamethyltrisiloxane. Alkyl linkers can include, but are not limited to, an n
 0 propyl linker. Poly glycol chains include, but are not limited to, polyethylene glycol or
   polypropylene glycol. Poly glycol chains can comprise a mixture that provides an average
   chain length "n" of about "7.5". In certain embodiments, the average chain length "n" can
   vary from about 5 to about 14. Terminal groups can include, but are not limited to, alkyl
   groups such as a methyl group. Effective organosilicone compounds are believed to include,
 5 but are not limited to, trisiloxane ethoxylate surfactants or polyalkylene oxide modified
   heptamethyl trisiloxane.
                 Si                          0
                    I                       n
           (Compound I: polyalkyleneoxide heptamethyltrisiloxane, average n=7.5).
20
           In certain embodiments, an organosilicone preparation that comprises an
   organosilicone compound comprising a trisiloxane head group is used in the methods and
   compositions provided herein. In certain embodiments, an organosilicone preparation that
   comprises an organosilicone compound comprising a heptamethyltrisiloxane head group is
25 used in the methods and compositions provided herein. In certain embodiments, an
   organosilicone composition that comprises Compound I is used in the methods and
   compositions provided herein. In certain embodiments, an organosilicone composition that
   comprises Compound I is used in the methods and compositions provided herein. In certain
   embodiments of the methods and compositions provided herein, a composition that comprises
                                                     21

       WO 2014/164797                                                                 PCT/US2014/023503
   a polynucleotide molecule and one or more effective organosilicone compound in the range
   of about 0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e. g., about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025,
   0.03, 0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07, 0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1,
   0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2,
 5 2.3, 2.5 wt percent) is used or provided.
            Compositions of the present invention include but are not limited components that are
   one or more polynucleotides essentially identical to, or essentially complementary to
   herbicide target gene sequence (promoter, intron, exon, 5' untranslated region, 3'
   untranslated region), a transfer agent that provides for the polynucleotide to enter a plant cell,
 0 a herbicide that complements the action of the polynucleotide, one or more additional
   herbicides that further enhance the herbicide activity of the composition or provide an
   additional mode of action different from the complementing herbicide, various salts and
   stabilizing agents that enhance the utility of the composition as an admixture of the
   components of the composition.
 5          In aspects of the invention, methods include one or more applications of a
   polynucleotide composition and one or more applications of a permeability-enhancing agent
   for conditioning of a plant to permeation by polynucleotides. When the agent for
   conditioning to permeation is an organosilicone composition or compound contained therein,
   embodiments of the polynucleotide molecules are double-stranded RNA oligonucleotides,
 0 single-stranded RNA oligonucleotides, double-stranded RNA polynucleotides, single
   stranded RNA polynucleotides, double-stranded DNA oligonucleotides, single-stranded
   DNA oligonucleotides, double-stranded DNA polynucleotides, single-stranded DNA
   polynucleotides, chemically modified RNA or DNA oligonucleotides or polynucleotides or
   mixtures thereof.
25          In various embodiments, a Lolium herbicide target gene includes coding (protein
   coding or translatable) sequence, non-coding (non-translatable) sequence, or both coding and
   non-coding sequence. Compositions of the invention can include polynucleotides and
   oligonucleotides designed to target multiple genes, or multiple segments of one or more
   genes. The target gene can include multiple consecutive segments of a target gene, multiple
30 non-consecutive segments of a target gene, multiple alleles of a target gene, or multiple target
   genes from one or more species.
            An aspect of the invention provides a method for modulating expression of an
   herbicide target gene in a Lolium plant including (a) conditioning of a plant to permeation by
   polynucleotides and (b) treatment of the plant with the polynucleotide molecules, wherein the
                                                       22

       WO 2014/164797                                                          PCT/US2014/023503
   polynucleotide molecules include at least one segment of 19 or more contiguous nucleotides
   cloned from or otherwise identified from the target gene in either anti-sense or sense
   orientation, whereby the polynucleotide molecules permeate the interior of the plant and
   induce modulation of the target gene. The conditioning and polynucleotide application can
 5 be performed separately or in a single step. When the conditioning and polynucleotide
   application are performed in separate steps, the conditioning can precede or can follow the
   polynucleotide application within minutes, hours, or days. In some embodiments more than
   one conditioning step or more than one polynucleotide molecule application can be
   performed on the same plant. In embodiments of the method, the segment can be cloned or
 0 identified from (a) coding (protein-encoding), (b) non-coding (promoter and other gene
   related molecules), or (c) both coding and non-coding parts of the target gene. Non-coding
   parts include DNA, such as promoter regions or the RNA transcribed by the DNA that
   provide RNA regulatory molecules, including but not limited to: introns, 5' or 3' untranslated
   regions, and microRNAs (miRNA), trans-acting siRNAs, natural anti-sense siRNAs, and
 5 other small RNAs with regulatory function or RNAs having structural or enzymatic function
   including but not limited to: ribozymes, ribosomal RNAs, t-RNAs, aptamers, and
   riboswitches.
           The following examples are included to demonstrate examples of certain preferred
   embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the
 0 techniques disclosed in the examples that follow represent approaches the inventors have
   found function well in the practice of the invention, and thus can be considered to constitute
   examples of preferred modes for its practice. However, those of skill in the art should, in
   light of the present disclosure, appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific
   embodiments that are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from
25 the spirit and scope of the invention.
                                             EXAMPLES
   Example 1. Polynucleotides related to the herbicide target genes Lolium rigidum
           Polynucleotides were isolated from Lolium rigidum and sequenced and those
   identified as noncoding or coding regions of herbicide target genes acetyl-CoA carboxylase
30 (ACCase), acetolactate synthase (ALS large subunit and ALS small subunit, also known as
   acetohydroxyacid synthase, AHAS), dihydropteroate synthetase (DHPS), 5
   enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS), glutamine synthetase (GS2), 4
   hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate-dioxygenase (HPPD), phytoene desaturase (PDS),
                                                    23

       WO 2014/164797                                                         PCT/US2014/023503
   protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase (PPOX) were selected. These are shown as SEQ ID NO: 1
   66.
           Polynucleotide molecules were extracted from Lolium rigidum tissues by methods
   standard in the field, for example, total RNA was extracted using Trizol Reagent (Invitrogen
 5 Corp, Carlsbad, CA Cat. No. 15596-018), following the manufacturer's protocol or
   modifications thereof by those skilled in the art of polynucleotide extraction that may
   enhance recover or purity of the extracted RNA. Briefly, starting with approximately 1 gram
   of ground plant tissue for extraction. Prealiquot 10 milliliters (mL) Trizol reagent to 15 mL
   conical tubes. Add ground powder to tubes and shake to homogenize. Incubate the
 0 homogenized samples for 5 minutes (min) at room temperature (RT) and then add 3 mL of
   chloroform. Shakes tubes vigorously by hand for 15-30 seconds (sec) and incubate at RT for
   3 min. Centrifuge the tubes at 7,000 revolutions per minute (rpm) for 10 min at 4 degrees C
   (centigrade). Transfer the aqueous phase to a new 1.5 mL tube and add 1 volume of cold
   isopropanol. Incubate the samples for 20-30 min at RT and centrifuge at 10,000 rpm for 10
 5 min at 4 degrees C. Wash pellet with Sigma-grade 80 percent ethanol. Remove the
   supernatant and briefly air-dry the pellet. Dissolve the RNA pellet in approximately 200
   microliters of Diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC) treated water. Heat briefly at 65C to dissolve
   pellet and vortex or pipet to resuspend RNA pellet. Adjust RNA concentraiton to 1-2
   microgram/microliter. RNA was used to make cDNA libraries by standard methods that
 0 were then sequenced.
          Genomic DNA (gDNA) was extracted using EZNA SP Plant DNA Mini kit (Omega
   Biotek, Norcross GA, Cat#D55 11) and Lysing Matrix E tubes (Q-Biogen, Cat#6914),
   following the manufacturer's protocol or modifications thereof by those skilled in the art of
   polynucleotide extraction that may enhance recover or purity of the extracted DNA. Briefly,
25 aliquot ground tissue to a Lysing Matrix E tube on dry ice, add 800[tl Buffer SPI to each
   sample, homogenize in a bead beater for 35-45sec, incubate on ice for 45-60 see, centrifuge
   at >14000 rpm for 1min at RT, add 10 microliter RNase A to the lysate, incubate at 65'C for
   10min, centrifuge for 1min at RT, add 280 [l Buffer SP2 and vortex to mix, incubate the
   samples on ice for 5min, centrifuge at >10,000g for 10 min at RT, transfer the supernatant to
30 a homogenizer column in a 2ml collection tube, centrifuge at 10,000g for 2 min at RT,
   transfer the cleared lysate into a 1.5ml microfuge tube, add 1.5 volumes Buffer SP3 to the
   cleared lysate, vortex immediately to obtain a homogeneous mixture, transfer up to 650ptl
   supernatant to the Hi-Bind column, centrifuge at 10,000g for 1min, repeat, apply 100[tl 65'C
   Elution Buffer to the column, centrifuge at 10,000g for 5min at RT.
                                                  24

       WO 2014/164797                                                        PCT/US2014/023503
         Next-generation DNA sequencers, such as the 454-FLX (Roche, Branford, CT), the
  SOLiD (Applied Biosystems, ), and the Genome Analyzer (HiSeq2000, Illumina, San Diego,
  CA) are used to provide polynucleotide sequence from the DNA and RNA extracted from the
  plant tissues. Raw sequence data is assembled into contigs. The contig sequence is used to
5 identify trigger molecules that can be applied to the plant to enable regulation of the gene
  expression. SEQ ID NO: 1-66 (summarized in Table 1) contains the target cDNA and gDNA
  sequence contigs from the various herbicide target genes of Lolium rigidum.
  Table 1. Lolium rigidum herbicide target gene sequences and fragments SEQ ID NO: 1-66.
   SEQ ID NO      GENE         TYPE
    1             ACCase       gDNAContig
   2              ACCase       gDNAContig
   3              ACCase       gDNAContig
   4              ACCase       gDNAContig
   5              ACCase       gDNAContig
   6              ACCase       gDNAContig
   7              ACCase       gDNAContig
   8              ACCase       gDNAContig
   9              ACCase       gDNAContig
    10            ACCase       gDNAContig
    11            ALS          gDNAContig
    12            ALS          gDNAContig
    13            ALS          gDNAContig
    14            ALS          gDNAContig
    15            ALS          gDNAContig
    16            ALS          gDNAContig
    17            ALS          gDNAContig
    18            ALS          gDNAContig
    19            ALS          gDNAContig
   20             ALS          gDNAContig
   21             ALS          gDNAContig
   22             ALS small    gDNAContig
   23             ALS small    gDNAContig
   24             ALS small    gDNAContig
   25             ALS small    gDNAContig
   26             ALS small    gDNAContig
   27             ALS small    gDNAContig
   28             DHPS         gDNAContig
   29             DHPS         gDNAContig
   30             DHPS         gDNAContig
   31             DHPS         gDNAContig
   32             DHPS         gDNAContig
   33             EPSPS        gDNAContig
   34             EPSPS        gDNAContig
   35             EPSPS        gDNAContig
   36             EPSPS        gDNAContig
   37             EPSPS        gDNAContig
   38             GS2          gDNAContig
   39             GS2          gDNAContig
                                                 25

        WO 2014/164797                                                        PCT/US2014/023503
     40            GS2          gDNAContig
     41            GS2          gDNAContig
     42            GS2          gDNAContig
     43            GS2          gDNAContig
     44            GS2          gDNAContig
     45            GS2          gDNAContig
     46            HPPD         gDNAContig
     47            HPPD         gDNAContig
     48            HPPD         gDNAContig
     49            HPPD         gDNAContig
     50            HPPD         gDNAContig
     51            PDS          gDNAContig
     52            PDS          gDNAContig
     53            PDS          gDNAContig
     54            PDS          gDNAContig
     55            PDS          gDNAContig
     56            PDS          gDNAContig
     57            PPOX         gDNAContig
     58            PPOX         gDNAContig
     59            PPOX         gDNAContig
     60            PPOX         gDNAContig
     61            PPOX         gDNAContig
     62            PPOX         gDNAContig
     63            PPOX         gDNAContig
     64            PPOX         gDNAContig
     65            PPOX         gDNAContig
     66            PPOX         gDNAContig
   Example 2. Polynucleotides of the invention related to trigger molecules of the Lolium
   rigidum herbicide target genes.
           The gene sequences and fragments of SEQ ID NO: 1-66 were selected into short
 5 polynucleotide lengths of 30 contiguous nucleotides as shown in Table 2, SEQ ID NO: 67
   155. These polynucleotides are tested to select an efficacious trigger to any of the herbicide
   target gene sequence regions. The trigger polynucleotides are constructed as sense or anti
   sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or dsDNA, or dsDNA/RNA hybrids and combined with an
   organosilicone based transfer agent and nonpolynucleotide herbicide to provide a new
10 herbicidal composition. The polynucleotides are combined into sets of two to three
   polynucleotides per set, using 4-8 nM of each polynucleotide. Each polynucleotide set is
   prepared with the organosilicone transfer agent and applied to a Lolium plant or to a field of
   crop plants containing ryegrass plants in combination with a nonpolynucleotide herbicide that
   targets one or more of the enzymes of the herbicide target genes, or followed by the
15 nonpolynucleotide herbicide treatment one to three days later. The effect is measured as
   stunting the growth and/or killing of the plant and is measured 8-14 days after treatment with
                                                  26

      WO 2014/164797                                                          PCT/US2014/023503
  the herbicidal composition. The most efficacious trigger sets are identified and the individual
  polynucleotides are tested in the same methods as the sets are and the most efficacious single
  polynucleotide is identified. By this method it is possible to identify one oligonucleotide or
  several oligonucleotides that effect plant sensitivity to nonpolynucleotide herbicide.
5          It is contemplated that additional 19-30 polynucleotides can be selected from the
  sequences of SEQ ID NO: 1-66 that are specific for a herbicide target gene in Lolium rigidum
  or include activity against a related weed species, for example, Lolium canarienseSteud.
  Canary Islands ryegrass, Lolium edwardii H.Scholz, Stierst. & Gaisberg, Lolium multiflorum
  Lam. - Italian ryegrass, Lolium perenne L. - Perennial ryegrass, Lolium persicum - Persian
0 ryegrass or Persian damel, Lolium remotum Schrank, and Lolium temulentum L. - Darnel,
  poison damelryegrass
  Table 2. Polynucleotides SEQ ID NO: 67-155.
   SEQ ID NO         SEQ                                                     GENE
   67               GGAAGAGCCGATTCTCCGGCATGTGGAGCC                           ACCase
   68               GGGCAAGTCTGGTTTCCAGATTCTGCTACC                           ACCase
   69               GGAGAGGCTTCTCTGGTGGGCAAAGAGACC                           ACCase
   70               GGAAAAGTTATATCCTCTTGTGCGGCAACC                           ACCase
   71               GGAGAGATACGCACTAATGTTGATTACACC                           ACCase
   72               GGGCTGTTAATGCAGGTAAACATATTTACC                           ACCase
   73               GGATGGTTCTCATGTGGTTGCTGATACACC                           ACCase
   74               GGAAGTGGAGGTCATGAAGATGTGCATGCC                           ACCase
   75               GGCCTCTGGCGTCATTCACTTTGTCATGCC                           ACCase
   76               GGACTTTAAGACATATACGTTGGCTAACCC                           ACCase
   77               GGAGGAGCCGATGCTCCGCCATGTGGAACC                           ACCase
   78               GGCATTGTTGCTTGGAAGATGAAGCTCTCC                           ACCase
   79               GGCTCTACAATTGTTGAGAACCTGAGGACC                           ACCase
   80               GGAAGTTGAGGTTATGAAGATGTGCATGCC                           ACCase
   81               GGGACCGAGAAGGCCATTCTCCTGGTGGCC                           ACCase
   82               GGCCTGGCTGGGGCCATGCTTCTGAGAACC                           ACCase
   83               GGAGAAGGGAATCATTTTTCTTGGGCCACC                           ACCase
   84               GGTGGCTAGTTGTCAGGTGGTGGGGTATCC                           ACCase
   85               GGCGCTATGGGCTACTGCATTTCGGCGGCC                           ALS
   86               GGAGTTGGAGCAGCAGAAAAGGGAGTTTCC                           ALS
   87               GGGATACAAAACTTTCGGGGAGGCCATCCC                           ALS
   88               GGTTATACTTCTTGTGTAAATATTAGGACC                           ALS
   89               GGTCACATTTAGGTTAACTAGATTTACACC                           ALS
   90               GGCTATAGGTGCCACAGTCTGCCTAGTACC                           ALS
   91               GGTATTCCCCATCGATAGGGAATTCGACCC                           ALS
   92               GGGCGGGCCCCGATGAACTTAGGGAAGTCC                           ALS
   93               GGGCCTCCTCACGCCGCGCCCTCGCCGCCC                           ALS
   94               GGTTATACTTCTTGTGTAAATATTAGGACC                           ALS small
                                                  27

  WO 2014/164797                               PCT/US2014/023503
95             GGTCACATTTAGGTTAACTAGATTTACACC ALSsmall
96             GGCATTTCACGTATTACAACAGTTGTTCCC ALSsmall
97             GGGAGATACTAGATATCGGTCAAATCTTCC ALSsmall
98             GGTTATACTTCTTGTGTAAATATTAGGACC ALSsmall
99             GGTCACATTTAGGTTAACTAGATTTACACC ALSsmall
100            GGCATTTCACGTATTACAACAGTTGTTCCC ALSsmall
101            GGGAGATACTAGATATCGGTCAAATCTTCC ALSsmall
102            GGCTATAGGTGCCACAGTCTGCCTAGTACC ALSsmall
103            GGGGGTAAGTTTCAAGAAGTGGAAGCTGCC DHPS
104            GGTTTTCATGAAACTTCTCCTCGTGACTCC DHPS
105            GGTGTTGTTGCAGGTCCTGTGTTTTTTACC DHPS
106            GGCCGGCGCGGAGGAGGTCGTGCTGCAGCC EPSPS
107            GGCGGCAGGTTCCCGATTGAGAAGGATGCC EPSPS
108            GGTGCGAATGTTGATTGTTTCCTCGGCACC EPSPS
109            GGTTCCATCAGCAGCCAGTACTTGAGTTCC EPSPS
110            GGTCCAACTGCTATCAGAGATGGTAAACCC EPSPS
111            GGGACCCTGGGTGCACCCGCAAGACCTTCC EPSPS
112            GGTTCCATCAGCAGCCAATACTTGAGTTCC EPSPS
113            GGTCCAACTGCTATCAGAGATGGTAAACCC EPSPS
114            GGCAAGCACGAGACCGCTGACATCCACACC GS2
115            GGCCTCTTGGCTGGCCTGTTGGAGGGTACC GS2
116            GGCCAGCCCTTTGGTCAAATCATATTTCCC GS2
117            GGTACGGTATCGAGCAGGAGTACACCCTCC GS2
118            GGTGCGCCTGGTCAGAGCCTTCCAAGTTCC GS2
119            GGCGGCAGAGTAGCTACCTACTAGCTAGCC GS2
120            GGGGGAAGGGTGTGGGGCGTCAGGAGGGCC GS2
121            GGCATGTGAGTTAAAATGATTTTTTTTGCC GS2
122            GGCGATCAGGCTGCTCTCCGACAATGATCC GS2
123            GGCATTGCACGGGAGACATAGGAATTAGCC GS2
124            GGCCATCAGGCTGCTCTCTGACAATGATCC GS2
125            GGTAATTGCTGTGCCTGGTCAGAGCCTTCC GS2
126            GGCCATCAGGCTGCTCTCGGACAATGATCC GS2
127            GGCATGTGAGTTAAAATGATTTTTTTTGCC GS2
128            GGCCTCTTGGCTGGCCTGTTGGAGGGTACC GS2
129            GGCCAGCCGATTGGTCAAATCATATTTCCC GS2
130            GGCGGGGAGCTGCGGTCGTGCATGGCCACC GS2
131            GGTACCTTTTCTTTTCACCGCCGCCTCACC GS2
132            GGTCGCGTCCCCCGGCTTTTTCCTCATCCC GS2
133            GGCCCCATCACCGACGCGAGCCAGCTGCCC GS2
134            GGAACAATGCTGCCAAGATCTTCGACAACC GS2
135            GGTACGGTATCGAGCAGGAGTACACCCTCC GS2
136            GGCGACTGGAACGGCGCCGGCGCGCACACC GS2
137            GGACACCACGAGACCGCCGACATCAACACC GS2
138            GGATATCAATCTCAATGTGTTTAGTGAGCC GS2
139            GGCTTCTATGTTTTCCAATACTTCGATGCC HPPD
140            GGGCTCGGCGTGCCACTCGCCGCGCAGTCC HPPD
141            GGAGCCACGTCGAGACGTTCCTGGACCACC HPPD
142            GGCCCAGGCATACAGCACCTGGCAATGACC HPPD
                                 28

       WO 2014/164797                                                        PCT/US2014/023503
     143              GGCGCGCTCAGGAAAATCCGAGCTCGGTCC                        HPPD
     144              GGGCGGGTTTGAGCTCCTGCCGCCGCCGCC                        HPPD
     145              GGAGGTTTACTTGTTTGAACCGAATGTTCC                        PDS
     146              GGACCATAAATGGAGGAAAATCGTATTCCC                        PDS
     147              GGTAAGCAACTGCTAGTGATCGGAGGCCCC                        PDS
     148              GGCTATGGCTAAACACTGTAAATAAAGTCC                        PDS
     149              GGTTGCAATGACGACAGCTTCGATCTCACC                        PDS
     150              GGCGCCCACTATAAGCAATGACGGAGTACC                        PDS
     151              GGAGAAGTTAAAACAAACATAGGGCCCACC                        PDS
     152              GGATATGTTGTAACGCGATAAATTGCTGCC                        PDS
     153              GGTTGGGGCCTGTACTATATAGGAAATTCC                        PPOX
     154              GGGGGTGCTACAAATACAGGGATCGTCTCC                        PPOX
     155              GGTTACGGTATTCAGTTAGTGTTGGTCACC                        PPOX
   Example 3. Methods used in the invention related to treating plants or plant parts with a
   topical mixture of the trigger molecules.
           Lolium plants are grown in the greenhouse (30 / 20 C day/night T; 14 hour
 5 photoperiod) in 4 inch square pots containing Sun Gro@ Redi-Earth and 3.5 kg/cubic meter
   Osmocote@ 14-14-14 fertilizer. When the plants at 5 to 10 cm in height are pre-treated with
   a mixture of single-strand antisense or double-strand polynucleotides (ssDNA ro dsRNA
   targeting one or more of the herbicide target gene sequences from SEQ ID NO: 1-66) at 16
   nM, formulated in 10 millimolar sodium phosphate buffer (pH 6.8) containing 2%
 0 ammonium sulfate and 0.5% Silwet L-77. Plants are treated manually by pipetting 10 gL of
   polynucleotide solution on fully expanded mature leaves, for a total of 40 microliters of
   solution per plant. Twenty-four and forty-eight hours later, the plants are treated with and
   effective dose of the nonpolynucleotide herbicide corresponding to the herbicide target gene
   in which the polynucleotides have homology.            Four replications of each treatment is
15 conducted. Plant height is determined just before treatment and at intervals upto twelve days
   after herbicide treatments to determine effect of the polynucleotide and herbicide treatments.
   Example 4. A method to control Lolium in a field.
           A method to control Lolium in a field comprises the use of trigger polynucleotides
20 that can modulate the expression of one or more herbicide target genes in Lolium. In Table 2,
   an analysis of herbicide target gene sequences provided a collection of 30-mer
   polynucleotides that can be used in compositions to affect the growth or develop or
   sensitivity to a nonpolynucleotide herbicide to control multiple weed species in a field. A
   composition containing 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or more of the polynucleotides of Table 2 or
25 fragments thereof would enable broad activity of the composition against the herbicide
                                                  29

       WO 2014/164797                                                           PCT/US2014/023503
   resistant ryegrass species or multiple Lolium weed species that occur in a field environment.
            The method includes creating a composition that comprises components that include
   at least one polynucleotide of Table 2 or fragment thereof or any other effective gene
   expression modulating polynucleotide essentially identical or essentially complementary to
 5 SEQ ID NO: 1-66, a transfer agent that mobilizes the polynucleotide into a plant cell and
   nonpolynucleotide herbicide. The polynucleotide of the composition includes a dsRNA,
   ssDNA or dsDNA or a combination thereof. A composition containing a polynucleotide can
   have a use rate of about I to 30 grams or more per acre depending on the size of the
   polynucleotide and the number of polynucleotides in the composition.        The composition may
 0 include one or more additional herbicides as needed to provide effective multi-species weed
   control in addition to control of ryegrass and related weed species. A field of crop plants in
   need of weed plant control is treated by spray application of the composition. The
   composition can be provided as a tank mix, a sequential treatment of components (generally
   the polynucleotide followed by the nonpolynucleotide herbicide), a simultaneous treatment or
 5 mixing of one or more of the components of the composition from separate containers or as a
   premix of all of the components of the herbicidal composition. Members of the
   nonpolynucleotide herbicide families include but are not limited to amide herbicides,
   aromatic acid herbicides, arsenical herbicides, benzothiazole herbicides,
   benzoylcyclohexanedione herbicides, benzofuranyl alkylsulfonate herbicides, carbamate
 0 herbicides, cyclohexene oxime herbicides, cyclopropylisoxazole herbicides, dicarboximide
   herbicides, dinitroaniline herbicides, dinitrophenol herbicides, diphenyl ether herbicides,
   dithiocarbamate herbicides, halogenated aliphatic herbicides, imidazolinone herbicides,
   inorganic herbicides, nitrile herbicides, organophosphorus herbicides, oxadiazolone
   herbicides, oxazole herbicides, phenoxy herbicides, phenylenediamine herbicides, pyrazole
25 herbicides, pyridazine herbicides, pyridazinone herbicides, pyridine herbicides,
   pyrimidinediamine herbicides, pyrimidinyloxybenzylamine herbicides, quaternary
   ammonium herbicides, thiocarbamate herbicides, thiocarbonate herbicides, thiourea
   herbicides, triazine herbicides, triazinone herbicides, triazole herbicides, triazolone
   herbicides, triazolopyrimidine herbicides, uracil herbicides, and urea herbicides.Treatment of
30 the plants in the field can occur as often as needed to provide weed control and the
   components of the composition can be adjusted to target specific weed species or weed
   families.
                                                    30

          Throughout this specification and the following claims, unless the context requires
  otherwise, the use of the term "comprising" and its variations indicates that the listed features
  are required or mandatory, but that other elements are optional and may or may not be
5 present.
                                                 31

We Claim:
 1. A method of Lolium weed species plant control comprising: treating a Lolium weed species
plant or a part of said plant in need of control with a first herbicidal composition comprising a
polynucleotide, an organosilicone surfactant concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater,
and an effective dose of a nonpolynucleotide herbicide, wherein said polynucleotide is at
least 19 contiguous polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially
complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidium gene polynucleotide selected from the
group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1-66, wherein said treated plant is more sensitive to said
nonpolynucleotide herbicide relative to a similar plant treated with a second herbicidal
composition not containing said polynucleotide.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said Lolium weed species is selected from the group
consisting of Lolium rigidum, Lolium canariense,Lolium edwardii,Lolium multiflorum,
Lolium perenne, Lolium persicum, Lolium remotum and Lolium temulentum.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
 1-10 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is selected from the group consisting of
aryloxyphenoxypropionates, cyclohexanediones and phenylpyrazoline.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
 11-21 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is selected from the group consisting of
sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines, pyrimidinyl(thio)benzoates, and
sulfonylaminocarbonyl-triazolinones.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
22-27 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is selected from the group consisting of
sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines, pyrimidinyl(thio)benzoates, and
sulfonylaminocarbonyl-triazolinones.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
                                                 32

28-32 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is selected from the group consisting of
sulfonamides and asulam.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
33-37 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is glyphosate.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
38-45 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is glufosinate.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
46-50 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is selected from the group consisting of
triketones, isoxazoles, and pyrazoles.
 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
51-56 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is selected from the group consisting of
pyridazinones, pyridinecarboxamides, beflubutamid, fluridone, flurochloridone and
flurtamone.
 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides in length and essentially identical or essentially complementary to a segment
of a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:
57-66 and said nonpolynucleotide herbicide is selected from the group consisting of
acifluorfen-Na, bifenox, chlomethoxyfen, fluoroglycofen-ethyl, fomesafen, halosafen,
lactofen, oxyfluorfen, fluazolate, pyraflufen-ethyl, cinidon-ethyl, flumioxazin, flumiclorac
pentyl, fluthiacet-methyl, thidiazimin, oxadiazon, oxadiargyl, azafenidin, carfentrazone-ethyl,
sulfentrazone, pentoxazone, benzfendizone, butafenacil, pyrazogyl, and profluazol.
 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is selected from the group consisting
of sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or dsDNA, or dsDNA/RNA hybrids.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous nucleotides,
20 contiguous nucleotides or 21 contiguous nucleotides in length and at least 85 percent
                                                33

identical or complementary to a segment of said Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected
from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:1-66.
 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 contiguous
polynucleotides selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 67-155.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 85 percent homologous or
complementary to polynucleotides selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 67
 155.
 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said herbicidal composition comprises any combination
of two or more of said polynucleotides, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19
polynucleotides in length and at least 85 percent identical or complementary to a segment of
a Lolium rigidum gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1
66, and said herbicidal composition comprises any combination of two or more
nonpolynucleotide herbicides that inhibit the activity of two or more proteins selected from
the group consisting of ACCase, ALS large subunit, ALS small subunit, DHPS, EPSPS, GS2,
HPPD, PDS, PPOX, and wherein said treated plant is more sensitive to the two or more
nonpolynucleotide herbicides relative to a similar plant treated with a herbicidal composition
not containing said polynucleotides.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein said herbicidal composition further comprises one or
more nonpolynucleotide herbicide selected from the group consisting of: 5-Diarylpyrazole
herbicides, 2-Thiopyrimidine herbicides, 3-CF3-Benzene herbicides, Acetamide herbicides,
Amide herbicides, Aminoacrylate herbicides, Aminotriazine herbicides, Aromatic acid
herbicides, Arsenical herbicides, Arylaminopropionic acid herbicides, Arylcarboxamide
herbicides, Arylcyclodione herbicides, Aryloxyphenoxy-propionate herbicides,
Azolecarboxamide herbicides, Azoloazinone herbicides, Azolotriazine herbicides,
Benzamide herbicides, Benzenesulfonamide herbicides, Benzhydryl herbicides,
Benzimidazole herbicides, Benzofuran herbicides, Benzofuranyl Alkylsulfonate herbicides,
Benzohydrazide herbicides, Benzoic acid herbicides, Benzophenylmethanone herbicides,
Benzothiadiazinone herbicides, Benzothiazole herbicides, Benzothiazoleacetate herbicides,
Benzoxazole herbicides, Benzoylcyclohexanedione herbicides, Benzyloxymethylisoxazole
herbicides, Benzylpyrazole herbicides, Benzylpyridine herbicides, Benzylpyrimidone
herbicides, Bipyridylium herbicides, Carbamate herbicides, Chloroacetamide herbicides,
Chloroacetamide herbicides, Chlorocarbonic acid herbicides, Cyclohexanedione herbicides,
Cyclohexene oxime herbicides, Cyclopropylisoxazole herbicides, Diarylether herbicides,
Dicarboximide herbicides, Dihydropyrancarboxamide herbicides, Diketo-epoxide herbicides,
                                               34

Diketopiperazine herbicides, Dinitroaniline herbicides, Dinitrophenol herbicides,
Diphenylether herbicides, Diphenylfuranone herbicides, Dithiocarbamate herbicides,
Fluoroalkene herbicides, Glyphosate herbicides, Halogenated aliphatic herbicides,
Hydantocidin herbicides, Hydroxypyrazole herbicides, Imidazolinone herbicides, Indazole
herbicides, Indenedione herbicides, Inorganic herbicides, Isoxazole herbicides,
Isoxazolesulfone herbicides, Isoxazolidinone herbicides, Nicotinohydrazide herbicides,
Nitrile herbicides, Nitrile-amide herbicides, Nitropyrazole herbicides, N-phenylphthalimide
herbicides, Organoarsenical herbicides, Organophosphates herbicides, Organophosphorus
herbicides, Oxabicycloheptane herbicides, Oxadiazole herbicides, Oxadiazolebenzamide
herbicides, Oxadiazolone herbicides, Oxazole herbicides, Oxazolidinedione herbicides,
Oxyacetamide herbicides, Phenoxy herbicides, Phenoxyalkyne herbicides,
Phenoxycarboxylic acid herbicides, Phenoxypyridazinol herbicides, Phenylalkanoate
herbicides, Phenylcarbamate herbicides, Phenylenediamine herbicides, Phenylethylurea
herbicides, Phenylimidazole herbicides, Phenylisoxazole herbicides, Phenylpyrazole
herbicides, Phenylpyrazoline herbicides, Phenylpyridazine herbicides, Phenylpyridine
herbicides, Phenylpyrrolid one herbicides, Phosphinic acid herbicides, Phosphonate
herbicides, Phosphoroamidate herbicides, Phosphorod ithioate herbicides, Phthalamate
herbicides, Propionamide herbicides, Pyrazole herbicides, Pyrazole-aiylether herbicides,
Pyrazolium herbicides, Pyridazine herbicides, Pyridazinone herbicides, Pyridine herbicides,
Pyridinecarboxamide herbicides, Pyridinecarboxylic acid herbicides, Pyridinone herbicides,
Pyridyl-benzylamide herbicides, Pyridyl-ether-carboxamide herbicides, Pyrimidinecarboxylic
acid herbicides, Pyrimidinediamine herbicides, Pyrimidinedione herbicides, Pyrimidinetrione
herbicides, Pyrimidinone herbicides, Pyrimidinyl(thio)benzoate herbicides,
Pyrimidinyloxybenzylamine herbicides, Pyrimidylmethanol herbicides, Pyrrolidone
herbicides, Quaternary Ammonium herbicides, Quinoline-carboxylic acid herbicides,
Quinoxaline herbicides, Semicarbazone herbicides, Sulfonamide herbicides, Sulfonylamino
carbonyl-triazolinone herbicides, Sulfonylurea herbicides, Sulfonylurea herbicides,
Tetrazolinone herbicides, Thiadiazole herbicides, Thiatriazine herbicides, Thienopyrimidine
herbicides, Thiocarbamate herbicides, Thiocarbonate herbicides, Thiourea herbicides,
Tolyltriazole herbicides, Triazine herbicides, Triazinedione herbicides, Triazine-sulfonanilide
herbicides, Triazinone herbicides, Triazole herbicides, Triazolecarboxamide herbicides,
Triazoleimine herbicides, Triazolinone herbicides, Triazolone herbicides, Triazolopyrimidine
herbicides, Triketone herbicides, Uracil herbicides, and Urea herbicides.
                                               35

 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said organosilicone surfactant concentration is about 0.2
percent to about 2.0 percent in said herbicide composition.
 19. A herbicidal composition comprising an admixture of a polynucleotide, an
organosilicone surfactant concentration of about 0.2 percent or greater, and an effective dose
of a nonpolynucleotide herbicide, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19 polynucleotides
in length and at least 85 percent identical or complementary to a segment of a Lolium rigidum
gene polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1-66, wherein a plant
treated with said herbicidal composition is more sensitive to the herbicide contained in the
herbicidal composition relative to a similar plant treated with a herbicidal composition not
containing the polynucleotide.
20. The herbicidal composition of claim 19, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 19
contiguous polynucleotides selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 67-155.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein said polynucleotide is at least 85 percent homologous
or complementary to polynucleotides selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 67
 155.
22. The herbicidal composition of claim 19, further comprising a pesticide, wherein said
pesticide is selected from the group consisting of insecticides, fungicides, nematocides,
bactericides, acaricides, growth regulators, chemosterilants, semiochemicals, repellents,
attractants, pheromones, feeding stimulants, and biopesticides.
23. The herbicidal composition of claim 19, comprising a premix or a tankmix combination.
                                                36

              <110>      Tao, Nengbing
<removed-date>
              <120>      Methods and Compositions for Weed Control
              <130>      P34107WO00
              <150>      61/779532
              <151>      2013<U+2701>03<U+2701>13
              <160>      155
<removed-apn>
              <210>      1
              <211>      880
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      1
              cctatgcagc gtgctgctgg gctcaatgac attggtatgg tagcctggat cttggacatg    60
              tccactcccg aatttcccag tggcagacag attattgttg tcgcaaatga tattactttt   120
              agagctggat catttggccc aagggaagat gcattttttg aagctgttac caacctggct   180
              tgtgagagaa agcttcctct tatctatatg gctgcaaact ctggtgctcg gattggcatt   240
              gctgatgaag ttaaatctat cttccgtgtt aaatggattg atgatagcaa ccctgaacgt   300
              ggatttgatt acgtttatct gtctgaagaa gactatggcc gtattagctc ttctgttata   360
              gcgcacaaga cacagctaga tagtggcgaa ataaggtcgg ttatcgattc tgttgtgggc   420
              aaggaggatg gactaggtgt ggagaacata catggaagtg ctgctattgc cagtgcgtat   480
              tctagggcat acgaggagac atatacactt acatttgtga ctggacgaac tgttggaata   540
              ggagcctatc ttgctcgact tggcatacgg tgcatacagc gtgaagatca gcccattatc   600
              ttaactgggt attctgccct gaacaagctt ctcggacggg aagtgtacag ctctcacatg   660
              cagttgggtg gtcccaaaat catggcaact aatggtattg accatctgac tgttccagat   720
              gaccttgcag gtgtttctca tatattgagg tggctcagct atgttcctgc taacattggt   780
              ggacctcttc ctattacaaa acctttggat ccaatagaca gacctgttgc atacattcct   840
              gagaatacat gtgatcctcg tgcagccata agtggcattg                         880
              <210>      2
              <211>      895
              <212>      DNA
                                                  Page 1

              <213>      Lolium rigidum
<removed-date>
              <400>      2
              ctctacagga cttctatttt ttttggcaat catttacatt gttaaatggt ctgcattcag    60
              gttgagcacc cagtcactga gtggatagct gaagtaaatt tgcctgcagc tcaagttgca   120
              gttggaatgg gtatacccct ttggcaggtt ccaggtaata ataaaagcat cgtaatatct   180
              ttattttctg tcccatgtta tttcgttgtc taattatctc cttatacaga gatcagacgt   240
<removed-apn>
              ttctacggaa tggacaatgg aggtggctat gacatttgga ggaaaacagc agctcttgct   300
              actccattca actttgatga agtagattct caatggccga agggtcattg tgttgcagtt   360
              cggataacta gtgagaatcc agatgatgga ttcaagccta ctggtggaaa agtaaaggtg   420
              ggatttccta atgcgatatc tatatttcaa gcagactagg gttagtaaac tgatgtggtc   480
              ttgatttttc gtatgtttca ggagataagt tttaaaagta agccgaatgt ctggggatat   540
              ttctcagtta aggtaagcta agctgttcat agctctgttg cagtgtcatg ttgttttgag   600
              ttctgcagaa aattggtctg caagattttt tatttgaatt agtattctca tttgggtttt   660
              gattgactaa gtactgatcc aatcaaaaaa tctccccccc cctcttaatc tgttttcagt   720
              ctggtggagg cattcatgaa tttgcagatt ctcagtttgg tatgtaaaat tttacccagt   780
              gcatattcct ctttgctatt tgtattgatc cttacattgg aaattgctcc ttcgactaca   840
              ggacatgttt ttgcctatgg agtgactaga tcagcagcaa taaccagcat gtctc        895
              <210>      3
              <211>      4919
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      3
              tccttttatg gacagaggtt gtacatatta ttgattgcat cagaaccttt tttcgtaatt    60
              aagtaccaaa tattctgtac atggcttaag aaattgattg atttccccaa aatgtgttat   120
              tttgtagtct gacgtgattg aacgactacg cctacaatat agtaaagacc ttcagaaggt   180
              tgtagacatt gttttgtctc accaggtaag ttacttttgg cctaatgact tggtgcaatt   240
              gatcactgaa gcaatcttcg tcactgatag tttgattttt ttctagggtg tgagaaacaa   300
              aactaagctg atactcacgc tcatggagaa actggtttat ccaaatcctg ctgcctacag   360
                                                  Page 2

<removed-date>
              ggatcagttg attcgctttg cttccctcaa ccataaaaga tattataagg tgacaatggc   420
              gacctaaaag aaatggaagc ttttggataa tcttaatgtg atatcttagg ctaacgaatt   480
              actttcattg taataatgta gttggccctt aaagcgagtg aacttcttga acaaaccaag   540
              ctcagtgaac tccgcacaag cattgcaagg aacctttcag ctctggagat gtttactgag   600
              gaaagggcag gtttctcctt gcaagccaga aaattggcca ttgatgagag catggtagat   660
<removed-apn>
              ttagtcactg ccccactgcc agttgaagat gcacttattt ccttgtttga ttgtagtgat   720
              caaactctcc agcagagagt gattgagaca tacatatctc gattatacca ggtattgcat   780
              gagctatttt ttggatcttc tgcttttctg gatgcaaaca ctaaagtttc taatgaataa   840
              gatgatcagt gtggaagtat ttgatttaga acttgtaaga catttactgc tctataagtg   900
              ggctaacttg ccaatgatat tttcagcctc aacttgtgaa ggatagtatc cagctgaaat   960
              atcaggattc tggtgttact gctttatggg aattcaccca agggcatcct gagaagagat 1020
              tgggtgctat ggttatcctg aagtcgcttg aatctgtgtc gacagccatt ggagctgctc 1080
              taaaggatac atcgcattat gcaagctctg cgggtaacac gatgcacatt gctttgttgg 1140
              gtgatactca attgaataca gctgaagata ggtatgttca tgtgcatatt agtgctgatg 1200
              agtttatttg gtgcaattct taaaataact taacctattt ctttcagtgg tgacaatgac 1260
              cgagctcaag acaggataga ccaactttct ttgatactga aacaggatac tgtcacggct 1320
              gatctatgtg ctgctggtgt caaggttatt agttgcattg tccaaagaga tggagcactc 1380
              atgcccatgc gccgtacctt cctcctgtca gatgagaagc ttggttatga ggaagagccg 1440
              attctccggc atgtggagcc tccactttct tcacttcttg agttggtatg caactcatca 1500
              aactgactgc atgatgtttt gatacaactt aaaatgctat tattttgtta tctgctactt 1560
              gtatttattt agcctgcttt ggatacagga taaactgaaa gtgaaaggat acaatgagat 1620
              gaagtataca ccgtcacgtg atcggcagtg gcatatatac acacttagaa atactgaaaa 1680
              ccccaaaatg ttgcacagag tatttttccg aactcttgtc agacaaccca gtgctggcaa 1740
              caggtttacg tcaggccata tcagcgatgt tgaaggggga cgtgctgagg aatctctttc 1800
              atttacgtct agcagcataa tgaaatcgct gacgactgct atagaagaac tggagcttca 1860
              cgcgatcagg actggccatt ctcatatgta cttgtgcata ttgaaggagc aaaagcttct 1920
                                                  Page 3

              tgaccttatt cccgtttcag ggtaagcttg gacattgttc tttttacata acatatatgc 1980
<removed-date>
              cttgctcttg tgtctcacct tctcaatgag cttttcttcg tacacaggag cactgttgtg 2040
              gatgttggtc aggatgaagc tactgcatgc tctcttttga aagaaatggc tctaaagata 2100
              catgaacttg ttggtgcaag aatgcatcat ctttctgtat gtcagtggga agtgaaactt 2160
              aagttggata gcgatggacc tgccagtggt agctggagag ttgtaacaac caatgtcact 2220
              cctcacacct gcactgtaga tgtaagtttt attgccttgc atcttgtttt cctgtatgga 2280
<removed-apn>
              actaatgaaa ctaaagtgaa cacatgatac ttatatacat agaactacca tcttacttag 2340
              tttgttgtca tttccacctc atttagacat atggtctgaa gctcatggtg cttttaatgc 2400
              ttttagatct accgggaggt cgaagataca gaatcacaga aactagtata ccactctgcc 2460
              tcatcgtcat ctggtccttt gcatggtgtc gcactgagta attcgtatca gcctttgagc 2520
              attattgatc taaaacgatg ctctgccagg gccaacagaa ctacatactg ctacgatttt 2580
              ccattggtta gtatctatct ctacgtattg tgtattctgt tagcagatta ctattggtat 2640
              tacatgtcct cctaaagctg ataagaactc aaaaatgtag gcatttgaaa ctgcagtgag 2700
              gaagtcatgg tctaacattc ctagaaacaa ccaatgttat gttaaagcga cagagctggt 2760
              gtttgctgac aagaatgggt cgtggggcac tcctataatt cctatgcagc gtgctgctgg 2820
              gctcaatgac atcggtatgg tagcctggat cttggacatg tccactcccg aatttcccag 2880
              tggcagacag attattgttg tcgcaaatga tattactttt agagctggat catttggccc 2940
              aagggaagat gcattttttg aagctgttac caacctggct tgtgagagaa agcttcctct 3000
              tatctatttg gctgcaaact ctggtgctcg gattggcatt gccgatgaag ttaaatctat 3060
              cttccgtgtt aaatggattg atgatagcaa ccctgaacgt ggatttgatt acgtttatct 3120
              gtctgaagaa gactatggcc gtattagctc ttctgttata gcgcacaaga cacagctaga 3180
              tagtggcgaa ataaggtggg ttatcgattc tgttgtgggc aaggaggatg gactaggtgt 3240
              ggagaacata catggaagtg ctgctattgc cagtgcgtat tctagggcat atgaggagac 3300
              atttacactt acatttgtga ctggacgaac tgttggaata ggagcctatc ttgctcgact 3360
              tggcatacgg tgcatacagc gtgaagatca gcccattatc ttaactgggt attctgccct 3420
              gaacaagctt ctcgggcggg aagtgtacag ctctcacatg cagttgggtg gtcccaaaat 3480
              catggcgact aatggtattg accatctgac tgttcgagat gaccttgaag gtgtttctaa 3540
                                                  Page 4

<removed-date>
              tatattgagg tggctcagct atgttcctgc taacattggt ggacctcttc ctattacaaa 3600
              acctttggat ccaatagaca gacctgttgc atacattcct gagaatacat gtgatcctcg 3660
              tgcagccata agtggcattg atgacagcca agggaaatgg ctgggtggta tgtttgacaa 3720
              agacagtttt gtggagacat ttggaggatg ggcgaagaca gtagttactg gcagagcaaa 3780
              acttggaggg attcctgtgg gtgttatagc tgtggagaca cagaccatga tgcagctcgt 3840
<removed-apn>
              cccagctgat ccaggacagc ctgattccca tgagcggtct gttcctcgtg ctgggcaagt 3900
              ctggtttcca gattctgcta ccaagacagc gcaggcaatg ttggacttca accgtgaagg 3960
              gttacctctg ttcatccttg ctaactggag aggcttctct ggtgggcaaa gagacctttt 4020
              tgaaggaatt ctgcaggctg gatcaacaat tgttgagaac cttaggacat ataatcagcc 4080
              tgcctttgta tatatcccca aggctgcaga gcttcgtgga ggtgcttggg tcgtgattga 4140
              tagcaagata aatccagatc gcattgagtg ctatgctgag acaactgcaa aagggaatgt 4200
              tctcgagcct caagggttga ttgagatcaa gttcaggtca gaggaacttc aagaatgcat 4260
              gggtaggctt gatccagaat tgataaatct gaaagcacaa ctccagggag caaagcatga 4320
              aaatggaagt ctatctgacg gagaatccat tcagaagagc atagaagctc gaaagaaaca 4380
              gttgctgcct ttgtacactc aaatcgcgat acggtttgct gaattgcatg atacttccct 4440
              cagaatgctt gctaaaggtg tgattaggaa aattgtagat tgggaagaat ctcggtcttt 4500
              cttctacaag agattacggc ggaggatatc tgaggacgtt cttgcaaaag aaataagaag 4560
              tgttattggt gtcgagtctt ctcacaaatc agcaatggag ttgattaaga agtggtactt 4620
              ggcttctgag acagctggag gaagcactga atgggatgat gacgatgctt ttgttgcctg 4680
              gagggagaac cctgaaaact acaaggagca tatcaaagag cttagggctc aaagggtatc 4740
              tcaggtgctc tcagatgttg cagactccag ttcggattta caagccttgc cacagggtct 4800
              ttccatgcta ctagataagg tacacatgct tacagtttta gctgcatcta ttttgtttgc 4860
              aagttatttg ctgagggtga gtaaaatgtt gctatcttca tatacactta gtctgtaac   4919
              <210>      4
              <211>      9711
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
                                                  Page 5

              <400>      4
<removed-date>
              tgtacagcat ggagacaggc gaatattatt tcctggagct taatccaaga ttgcaggttg    60
              aacaccctgt gaccgaatgg attgctgaag taaacttacc tgcatctcaa gttgcagtcg   120
              gaatgggcat acccctctac aacattccag gtagatcagt tttccaactt gatggttgat   180
              gagattttct cttttcctcc atattactaa tcaataaaag gatcattgca gagatcagac   240
              gcttttatgg aatggaacat gggggtggct accatgcttg gagggaaata tcagctgttg   300
<removed-apn>
              caactaaatt tgatttggat aaagcacagt ctgtaaagcc aaaaggtcat tgtgtagcag   360
              ttagagttac aagcgaggat ccagatgatg ggtttaagcc tactagtggg agagtggaag   420
              agctaaactt taaaagtaaa cccaatgttt gggcctattt ctccgttaag gcaagtgtac   480
              atccatgcat ttgattcttt tataccacat gtcatgtcac aacaaccgca acttataatt   540
              accctttagt tttcatgctt cttttgtcga taaatttcct ggaaaagtta tatcctcttg   600
              tgcggcaacc taatctgaat catcattttt cttactttca gtcgggagga gcaattcatg   660
              aattttctga ttctcagttt ggtaagtaac acacataatt ttctcttttc ttctggtctc   720
              tcataatgca ttgtcgtaaa cagtatcatt tttttgcagg tcatgttttt gcttttgggg   780
              aatctagatc gttggcaata gccaatatgg tacttgggct aaaagagatc caaattcgtg   840
              gagagatacg cactaatgtt gattacaccg tggatctctt gaaggtaaga taatcccata   900
              gtaaatgttc tctggttaca atgtatatat ttttcctttt gtgtaatttg tgttcaaatt   960
              ttccatatgt tcagactgca gaataccgag aaaataagat ccacactggt tggctagaca 1020
              gcagaatagc tatgcgtgtt agagcagaga ggcccccatg gtacctttca gttgttggag 1080
              gagctctata tgtatgattt ctttgtctgc agaactatga tttattggat gttatgactt 1140
              atgagcttgc acactagata ccatttccat cctcaagtac tgtatttctt acattccagg 1200
              aagcatcaag caggagttcg agcgttgtta gtgattatgt cggttatctc agcaaaggtc 1260
              aaataccacc aaaggtatct tattttatga tgaatacact tactacttac attaatttct 1320
              ataaataaaa aacttactaa ctgttttccc tttacagcac atctctcttg tcaatttgac 1380
              tgtaacacta aatatagagg ggagtaaata tacggtaatt ctctggaatt ttctctttaa 1440
              ccttatccat gccgttatcc cgttggtatc cttcagctac tcatgatcat cttcttcttt 1500
              agattgagac agcaagaggt ggaccccgta gctacaaatt aagaattaat aaatcagaga 1560
                                                  Page 6

<removed-date>
              tagaagcgga ggtacatccg ttgcgagatg gtgggctgtt aatgcaggta aacatattta 1620
              ccacaggaca agtttatata tacaaatatg acttatcttt tgttctgttt ttgttttgga 1680
              aggatctgat ctattttcat tttttaactc tccagttgga tggaaacagt catgtaattt 1740
              acgcagagac agaggcggct ggtacgcgcc ttctaatcaa tgggagaaca tgcttattac 1800
              aggtgaagat agcttctcct cttggtttct aactaaaagt tagctctgag ttattactag 1860
<removed-apn>
              gcgaagagta ctttgtatgt caaaattatg atagatctag acaaaattta cgctactgtc 1920
              tgacaagtta tgttgcattt ttattccctc aaaaaaatgt tgcatttttt atgatcatgt 1980
              gaaggtcata gaaaatggaa acttctcttt gttgaaggat gagaataata agctagaatg 2040
              aactgaacgg aagtttgggc aactgctgat gaagggtagc ctgtaattat attatagttt 2100
              tttctgttgc tttgtttcat gcacctccta gttaatttgg aattaggtaa caaattaata 2160
              acatagatat ttcattttcc tcgtcaagtg ctttttttgg catctgctat cactgtggtg 2220
              ttgcatctgc cattctgcct aatagtcatg tcttggcaac cgcatatgat actcaatgtg 2280
              agaatgacct aagatcttat tagagaaatc ctcactatgt gaatatttaa ctgaagggct 2340
              actgggtcca ttgttattgt tgactgctaa ttgtatgaaa gtacagaaat taatcatgtc 2400
              ctgtgaatga taaattacag aaagaacatg atccttcaaa gttgttggct gatacaccat 2460
              gcaaacttct tcggtttctg gtcacggatg gttctcatgt ggttgctgat acaccatatg 2520
              cggaagtgga ggtcatgaag atgtgcatgc ccctgttact accggcctct ggcgtcattc 2580
              actttgtcat gcctgagggt caggccatga aggttccttt cttctccacc cccttgcttg 2640
              catgtttgca gtgctatatg tacattctgg ttatagtact ttatgcttgt aatatgcatg 2700
              catcttttac atactagctg aaatagctgt cattgtgcag gcaagtgacc tgatagcaag 2760
              gttggatctg gatgacccat cttctgtgag gaaagctgaa ccatttcatg gcacttttcc 2820
              aaaacttgga ccacctactg ctatttctgg caaagttcac caaaagtttg ctgcaagcat 2880
              gaattctgcg ctcatgatcc ttgcaggata tgaacataat actgaacgag taagacagca 2940
              aacttttctg actatcgttg ttcttccact tttgtttctc cttgtttatc ttgttgccat 3000
              tgtcctcgtc tactgaggga aactaacctc ttagtgccaa attaactttc tttaatcaac 3060
              aagttcctga ctatatcttc tctttcaggt tgtagatgat ttgctaaact tcctagacag 3120
                                                  Page 7

              ccctgagctc ccttttctac agtggcaaga gctcatgtcc gttttggcaa cccggctacc 3180
<removed-date>
              aaaggatctt aggaatgagg tgattatgtg ttctagttat tttttattta ttttacatgc 3240
              catctttatt ttgatttttc ctgtctgcat atggaatgta taactaattt tcctgtattc 3300
              agttggatgg taagtacaag gattatgagt tcaatgctga cttcgggaag agcaaggatt 3360
              tccctgccaa gttgctaagg ggagtcattg aggtcagttt gagactgtta cttggcattc 3420
              ttttcttttt tgttatcatg ttgtttcctt acaaaaccat cactgcaggc aaatcttgca 3480
<removed-apn>
              tactgttctg agaaagacag agttgctaat gagaggcttg tagagccact tatgagcctt 3540
              gtcaagtcat atgagggtgg aagagaaagc aatgctcgtg ttgttgtgaa gtctctgttt 3600
              gaggagtatt tgtctgttga agaactgttc agtgatgaca ttcaggtacc cttcattatt 3660
              acttggaatg ggtcgattaa tgcccactct ctcaccaaaa tgtgctaaac ttttgggcat 3720
              cttttctttt ctattttcag tctgatgtga tagaacgcct acgacttcaa catgcaaaag 3780
              acctcgagaa agtcgtatat attgtgttct cccaccaggt aatgtcttta ttgtgctacc 3840
              tgtgttgatt tacttgttat gcaaaggcat ttcgtgctga cagtttttgt tcctttgaag 3900
              ggcgtgaaaa acaaaaatga attactacta cggcttatgg aacaaatggt ctatccaaat 3960
              ccatctgctt acagggacca gttgattcgc ttctctgccc tgaaccatac agcatactct 4020
              ccggtaaaat tgagtttcga cgatctgcat ctttgtattt tgcacatatg acagtctaga 4080
              gaaataatgc aaatttatat aattgatgca gctcgcactt aaagcaagcc aacttctcga 4140
              gcaaaccaaa ttgagtgaac tccgcgcaag cattgcaaga agcctttcag agctagagat 4200
              gtttactgag gaaggagagc gggtttcaac acctaggaga aagatggcca tcaatgaaag 4260
              aatggaagat ttagtatgtg ccccgcttgc agttgaagat gcccttgtgg ctttgtttga 4320
              tcacagtgat cctactcttc agcggagagt agttgagaca tacatacgca gattgtatca 4380
              ggtatcacat gatttatcaa ctaatctctt tcttcacaca gcttggactt taagacatat 4440
              acgttggcta acccactatc atattccagc attatcttgt aaggggcagt gtccggatgc 4500
              aatggcacag gtctggtcta attgctttat gggaattttc tgaagagcat attgaacaaa 4560
              gaaacgggca atctaagaca cttctaaagc cacaagtaga ggatcccatt cgcaggcgat 4620
              ggggtgtaat ggttgtaatc aagtctcttc agcttctgcc aactgcaatt gaagctgcat 4680
              taaaggagac ttcacattat ggagcaggtg atgcaaatgt ctccaatggt agtcctataa 4740
                                                  Page 8

<removed-date>
              gatctaataa tagcaatatg ctgcatattg ctttggttgg tatcagaaat cagatgagta 4800
              ctcttcaaga caggttcgtt tacactctct actctttgcg attctttatt cttgatgaaa 4860
              cgcaaaatat cataagagtg attctatgaa ctggttctga atttcatgaa atttttagtt 4920
              acaccctcca ctttgttttc tctttttagt ggtgatgagg atcaagcaca agaaaggatc 4980
              aacaaacttt ccaagatttt gagggatacc actataacat cacatctcaa tggtgctggt 5040
<removed-apn>
              gttaggactg tcagctgcat tatccaaaga gatgaagggc gtcctccaat gcgccattcc 5100
              ttccaatggt catttgacaa gctatattat gaggaggagc cgatgctccg ccatgtggaa 5160
              cctcctctgt ccacattcct tgaattggta tgcagcttta gttttggctt atgttctctt 5220
              caacaatacc agtacctcta ataacttatc tgtaaataca ggacaaagtg aaattagaag 5280
              gttacagtga catgaaatac aatccatcgc gtgatcgcca gtggcacatt tacacactga 5340
              acagtgaaga tccaaaatca aatgaccaaa ggatattcct tcgtacagtt gttagacagc 5400
              caagtttaac caatggtttt gtttggaagt atcgacaatg aagtaggccg ttctcaggcc 5460
              acatcgtcat tcacatctaa cagcatactt agatcattga ttgcagcgct agaagaaata 5520
              gagttacatg ctcataataa ggccatgagt tcacgccatt cccacatgta tctgtgcatg 5580
              ttgagagaac aacggttgtc tgatctaatt ccattttcaa ggtcagtcaa aatatactta 5640
              tgttctcaat aaaatacact gcattaaatg tgctcataga tgctcacttg gtttgtgctt 5700
              ctcatggtgt taggatgatg ggtgaagttg gtcaagatga ggagacagca tgcacacttt 5760
              tgaagcatat ggttatgaat atatatgaac atgttggtgt caggatgcat cgcctttctg 5820
              tgtgccaatg ggaagtgaag ctatggttag attgtgatgg tcaagccagt ggtgcttgga 5880
              gagttgtcat taccaacata actgggcata cctgcactgt tgatgtaagt taccttagcg 5940
              attgctgtat tgcactacta tgtgaacaac agcatctaca gttctgcata tcataaagaa 6000
              tgctacctct gatggcccca tagatcatca tatatgatta tattttagtt agtaaataga 6060
              acatggtcat catttccatc attcgtgtca tggacattct ctcaactgat gcctttaaag 6120
              ggtctattaa agaccactta aaaataatta agtactattt tctctttatt ccaatactct 6180
              tatatgctca cattcgtttg actttcagat ttaccgagaa gtagaagact ccaatacgca 6240
              tcagattttc taccgctctg ccacacacac agctggtcct ttgcatggca ttgcattgca 6300
                                                  Page 9

              tgagccatac aaacgtttgg ctcctattga catgaaacgg tctgcggcta ggaaaaacga 6360
<removed-date>
              aactacatac tgctatgatt tcccattggt gagttggttg cgtttgttaa tttacttttt 6420
              atctaacatt agttcgcatg attaacctga tcaactgagt ttgctaataa tactctgtcc 6480
              acaggcattt gaaacagcat tgaagaaatt gtggaaatct agtgcttcac atcttgcaga 6540
              aactaaccag cataatcagc agtatgctga agtgacagag cttttatttg ctgattcaac 6600
              tggatcatgg ggtactcctt tggttccagt tgaacgttct ccatgtgtca atgatatcgg 6660
<removed-apn>
              cattgttgct tggaagatga agctctccac gccagaattt ccaggcggcc gggagattat 6720
              agttgttgca aatgacgtga cgtttaaagc tgggtctttt ggtcctagag aaggggcatt 6780
              cttcgatgct gctaccaagc ttgcttgtga gaggaaaatt cctctaatct acttgtcagc 6840
              aactgctggt gctaggcttg gtgtggcaga ggaaataaag tcctgcttcc atgttggatg 6900
              gtctgatgag cagagtcctg aacgtggttt tcactacatt tacctcactg aagaagacta 6960
              ttcacgtcta agctcttcag ttatagccca tgaactgaaa ctagacagcg gagaaaccag 7020
              atggattgtt gataccattg ttgggaaaga ggatggactt ggttgtgaga atctgcatgg 7080
              tagtggtgcc attgccagtg cctttgctaa ggcatataga gagaccttta ctctgacatt 7140
              tgtgactgga aacgcagttg gaattggggc ttatcttgct cggctaggaa tgcggtgtat 7200
              acagcgactt gatcaatcaa ttcttttaac tggtttttct gccctgaaca aacttctggg 7260
              gcgcgaggtt tatagctctc agatgcaact gggtggcccc aaaattatgg gtacaaatgg 7320
              agtcgtccat ctgacagtgc cagatgatct tgaaggtgtt tctgctatct tgaaatggct 7380
              cagctatgtt cctgcctatg ttggcggtcc tcttcctatt ctgaagcctc ttgatccacc 7440
              agatagagct gtaacatatt tcccagagaa ttcatgtgat gcccgtgcag ccatctgtgg 7500
              gattcaggac actcaaggca agtggttggg tggtatgttt gacagagaaa gctttgtgga 7560
              aacattagaa ggatgggcaa aaactgttat tactggaagg gcaaagctgg gtgggattcc 7620
              agttggcgtc atagcagtgg aaacccagac aatgatgcaa gtaatccctg ctgaccctgg 7680
              tcagcttgat tccgctgagc gtgtagtccc tcaagcagga caggtgtggt tcccagattc 7740
              ggcctcaaaa acagcgcagg cattgctgga tttcaaccat gaagggctcc cattgttcat 7800
              acttgctaac tggagaggct tctctggtgg gcaaagggat ctgtttgaag gaatccttca 7860
              ggctggctct acaattgttg agaacctgag gacctacaag cagccagctt ttgtgtacat 7920
                                                  Page 10

<removed-date>
              cccaaaggct ggagagctgc gtggaggtgc atgggttgtg gtggacagca agatcaatcc 7980
              tgagcacatt gagatgtatg cggagaggac tgcaaaggga aatgtccttg agccagaagg 8040
              gctgattgag attaaattta agccaaaaga agtggaagag agtatgataa ggcttgaccc 8100
              tgagctggcc agccttgatt ctagactcaa agaaatgaag aaagcaaatg ctagcctgca 8160
              ggaaacggag gccatcaaca ggagcatcaa caaccggata aagaagctga tgcccatcta 8220
<removed-apn>
              tacgcaggtt gccacacggt ttgctgaatt gcacgacacc tcttccagaa tgactgccaa 8280
              aggtgtgatc agtaaggtgg ttgattggga ggagtctcgg agcttcttct acaggaggtt 8340
              gcgaaggcgg gtcgcggagg attcccttgc ccaggaagtt aaagaagccg ctggtgagcc 8400
              gatgcctcac agagcagcac tggagcgtat caagcagtgg tatctggcct ccaagggttc 8460
              ggaaggagac ggtgagaagt ggaacgatga cgaggctttc ttcgcctgga aagacgatgc 8520
              caagaactac gagaaccatc ttcaggagtt gaaggctgaa agagtatcta gactgttctc 8580
              ggatcttgct gaaagctcgg acgtgaaggc cttgcccaac ggtctttcgc gcctccttgg 8640
              caaagtaagt tctgcttctt cttttcttat taataaaatt ggcccgaatt aagttttgct 8700
              tccgcttttt tttttctgtc tctaatacga tcatatcttt gatacgttgt gcagatgaat 8760
              ccttcaaaga gggaacaagt tctcgatggc ctcaggcagc ttcttggtta atcgttggcc 8820
              tctacgtatc cagcataaac gtgcacagac gacgacgaac ttgtctggcg agctatagga 8880
              ggactcaatg gactagaaca cattgttttg tttgtttgca cataggcact tggtgacggt 8940
              caagaccgta tattgttatc atacacacaa agaataggtt gttctctgct ctgctggata 9000
              cttgtttgtg gttgtagatt gccagttctc cttttaagga agttattatg tgttgctcag 9060
              tttgctggcg ccaaagcttc tttctctccc tcctggtgac catgtatgca taaattttct 9120
              tatgctttgc caagtgaacc tcttgatatg acaacatacc caatgaacaa tgactaaaga 9180
              aaatagaaat ttacatttta tgatagcata tacaattttc taactttttt aagggttaca 9240
              aaaggcatga tccactttcc attttgtcac gaatcacccc aaaccccttt agggggtgca 9300
              atcttgggat gaccaccagc tccggcgact ccctccatca ggatacgaaa caacaacaaa 9360
              atcttataaa aaactgaact atccaactat tttgcagagc tccctttatc ctatctggat 9420
              atttcatcac gctccaacca tcgaacatgt tgtcacattg catgctatat gctcctttca 9480
                                                  Page 11

              ctgcaggaac cagctccatg atatgttctg gtaggggagc taatcctgcc agatggccaa 9540
<removed-date>
              gttttttttt gcgaaagttt cgccgatcaa ttaataatca tcaatagcag tacaaacaga 9600
              tccaaaagta acaaaaatta caaataggtc tttgtagcga cgactagctg aaggcgcgcc 9660
              accgtcctcg accctccatc atcggagcca gaaaaagctt attgtagtag a            9711
              <210>      5
              <211>      3281
<removed-apn>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      5
              gttttgatca catggttcaa ctccgtcctt ttttttcttg ttataacaga taattgagga     60
              aggaccagtt actgttgctc cacgtgagac agtgaaggag ctagagcaag cagcaaggag    120
              gcttgctaag gctgtgggat atgttggtgc tgctactgtt gaatatctct acagcatgga    180
              gactggtgaa tactattttc tggagcttaa tccacggttg caggtttgtt cttttgaaca    240
              ctctacagga cttctatttt ttttggcagt catttacatg gttaaatggt ctacattcag    300
              gttgagcacc cagtcactga gtggatagct gaagtaaatt tgcctgcagc tcaagttgca    360
              gttggaatgg gtatacccct ttggcaggtt ccaggtaata ataaaatcat cgtaatatct    420
              ttagtttctg gcccatgtta tttcgttgtc taattatctc cttacacaga gatcagacgt    480
              ttctacggaa tggacaatgg aggtggctat gacatttgga ggaaaacagc agctcttgct   540
              actccattca actttgatga agtagattct caatggccga agggtcattg tgttgcagtt   600
              aggataacta gtgagaatcc agatgatgga ttcaagccta ctggtggaaa agtaaaggtg    660
              ggttttccta atgtgatatc tatgtttcaa gcacactagg gttagtaaac tcatctggtt    720
              ttgatttttc gtatatttca ggagataagt tttaaaagta agccgaatgt ctggggatat    780
              ttctcagtta aggtaagcta agctgttcat agctctattg cagtgccatg ttattttgag    840
              ttctgcagaa aattggtctg caagattttt tatttgaatt agtattctca ttttggtttt    900
              gattgactaa gtactgatcc aatcaaaaaa tcttttccta ccctcttcat ctgttttcag   960
              tctggtggag gcattcatga atttgcagat tctcagttcg gtatgtatac ccagtgcata 1020
              ttcctctttg ctatttgtat tgatccttac attgtaaatt gctccttcga ttacaggaca 1080
              tgtttttgcc tatggagtga ctagatcagc agcaataacc agcatgtctc ttgcattaaa 1140
                                                  Page 12

<removed-date>
              agagattcaa atccgcggag aaattcattc aaacgttgat tacacggttg atctcttgaa 1200
              tgtaagtaat aatagcaact tgttgaaccc tactttttga ttttacatct ggctttcctt 1260
              caaaataatc ccttcttgtg gtttctgcat ctttaattca ggccccagac ttcagagaaa 1320
              acacgatcca taccggctgg ctggatacca gaatagctat gcgtgttcaa gctgagaggc 1380
              ctccctggta catttcagtg gttggaggag ctctatatgt aagccaatga aactagttaa 1440
<removed-apn>
              tgttacagca acttttggca agccaattgt gaaaaacaca actagtgttg aaatgattgt 1500
              tttgtgttgt agaaaacaat aaccaccaac gcggagactg tttctgaata tgtcagctac 1560
              ctcatcaagg gtcagattcc accaaaggta gtgtcttaat tggcgtaaac tctgtatatt 1620
              acttgaaggt gaacgttgtt gaccattatt tttgtgcagc atatatccct tgtgcattca 1680
              actatttctt tgaatataga ggaaatcaaa tatacagtaa gtgcgacatt ccttaagaaa 1740
              gattcagtta taatgcaatg atagctacca ttgatgctca tctacaccat gtcacagatt 1800
              gagattgtga ggagtggaca gggtagctac agattgagaa tgaatggatc gcttattgaa 1860
              gcaaatgtac aaacattatg tgatggtggc cttctaatgc aggtatttat acttgctcat 1920
              aaatataatc taaggttgaa aagtactgcc gaaagagttc tgattctttg gttgtaattt 1980
              ctccagctgg atggaaacag ccatgttatt tatgctgaag aagaagcagg tggtacacgg 2040
              cttcttattg atggaaagac atgcttgtta caggtaagga tattctcttt gtttgttcct 2100
              ttatctataa tcttggtgtt tgatgattgg atttcgtatt cctatttgtg acttgttact 2160
              gacttactgc agtcaccttc tgatcattag cactttagtt tgaaaagaaa agataaatcg 2220
              gtattatgaa ctaatgaatg gtacaacatg atgtttttca aggtcacacc aggaccaggt 2280
              gatattaaat tttaccgaca gcaggttttg tgatgtataa gggcaagtta catagctgca 2340
              atatagctaa gagggctcca gctcttttat attgcttctt ctatttctca aatctaggtt 2400
              ttccagcaac actagtattt ttaacaagca ctaatgatca taataaggca caaaaagagt 2460
              tagaaggtgt cctttaacac tatgtcatgt aacctttaaa agcttgtgat cagatcattt 2520
              tagtgataca aaagaacaat tgaatacttt atgatttttt tcttacacaa aaactttatg 2580
              attcctgatc acactgcatt gtatcctcaa ctaaataaat gacaaatcat tctgcagaat 2640
              gatcatgatc cgtcaaggtt attagctgaa acaccctgca aacttcttcg tttcttggtt 2700
                                                  Page 13

              gctgatggtg ctcatgtcga tgctgatgta ccatatgcgg aagttgaggt tatgaagatg 2760
<removed-date>
              tgcatgcccc tcttgtcacc tgctgctggt gtcattaatg ttttgttgtc tgagggccag 2820
              gcgatgcagg ttatattact gcactttttt gttgcttatg ctgttaataa cgattgcatg 2880
              tgaagcatct gaatttaata tttttttcag gctggtgatc ttatagcgag acttgatctc 2940
              gatgaccctt ctgctgtgaa gagagccgaa ccattcgaag gatcttttcc agaaattagc 3000
              cttcctattg ctgcttctgg ccaagttcac aaaaaatgtg ctgcaagttt gaatgctgct 3060
<removed-apn>
              cgaatggtcc ttgcaggata tgagcatgcg atcaacaaag taaactttaa gacccctgca 3120
              gtaactatat ttcgaatata ttgtctcata tttcctgttt ttctcaaata ccattatgta 3180
              ttattattat tatgaagttc tggattattc tgagttcctc attgaccttt ttctgccttt 3240
              cgctacaaaa tggtttctaa tatatagaag ttattgatgc t                       3281
              <210>      6
              <211>      1356
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      6
              ccacttgtgt ttccgattca tactaggcaa tactatgtca catgtattat ggtgaccaca     60
              gtaatgactt tcctcgtttc ttttctagtg ggtctggaga ccacatgggc tcctaccaaa    120
              tgaatgggat actgaatgaa tcacataacg ggagacacgc ttcgctgtct aaggttgttg    180
              aattttgtat ggcattgggt ggaaagacac caattcacag tgtattagtc gccaacaatg   240
              gaatggcagc agctaagttc atgcggagtg tccggatatg ggctaatgat acatttgggt    300
              cagagaaggc gattcagttg atagctatgg caactccgga agacatgaga ataaatgcag    360
              agcatattag aattgctgat cagtttgttg aagtacctgg tggaacaaac aataacaact    420
              atgcaaatgt ccaactcata gtggaggtca gtactgttca cccctttgat gtgcaattta   480
              tgcacaagct cctctttgtt cttttagcat gaaatttgac atggcaactt tgcttttgca   540
              gatagcagag agaacaggtg tttcggccgt ttggcctggt tggggccatg catctgagaa   600
              tcctgaactt ccagatgcac tcactgcaaa aggaattgtt tttctcgggc caccagcatc   660
              atcaatgaac gcattaggtg acaaggttgg ttcagctctc attgctcagg cagcaggggt   720
              tccgactctt gcttggagtg gatcacatgt aagagttaca ttctctcgga taatccatcg    780
                                                  Page 14

<removed-date>
              ccttatattt gtggtggatg cattttataa tgacacttta ttataggtgg aaattccatt    840
              agaactttgc ttggactcga tacctgagga gatgtatagg aaagcttgtg ttactaccgc    900
              ggatgaagca gttgcaagtt gtcagatgat tggttatcct gccatgatca aggcatcctg    960
              gggtggtggt ggtaaaggga ttagaaaggt acattattca tttggttgca ctgtactcaa 1020
              gagattctgt tattatgtgt gcagtgttag acctaacctt tttaacatat taactcgata 1080
<removed-apn>
              tctcttgcag gttaataatg atgatgaggt taaagcactg tttaagcaag tacagggtga 1140
              agttcctggc tccccaatat ttatcatgag acttgcatct caggttagac ttgtcttgaa 1200
              tttctatttt ccaaggatgc tgtttctggg tggtatattg tacacctgga agcttcattt 1260
              gctcttcctt gcaggctaga attgtatttt gtaatctgta ctcatatggt aattttcagt 1320
              ttaatctctt ctccctttcc ttttgtagag tcgaca                             1356
              <210>      7
              <211>      1418
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      7
              tttatatacc tgctgtaatt tcatatccgt gcacttcatt ttgttcgttc gcgaaaagtt     60
              tgatgaggac tttcatggtc tggctaaaca tagtcgtgtt tttgtcgata tcgttttagc    120
              atcaagttca gaaacaacaa attccttcct catgcagaat taaagttatt cgtgcaacgg    180
              ttcgctaaca gaatcgacaa tgctaacgat tctttttgtc ccttgctttt ccagcgctga   240
              aggctagagg gtggcgacaa tggtggcgga accggaccag acaaacggga cgcccaacag    300
              gatgtccagt aacaggcacc tgtcctcgcc gtccgtggtc gacgagttct gcaaggcgct    360
              cgggggcgat tcgcccatcc acagcgtgct ggtcgccaac aatggaatgg ccgcggtcaa    420
              gttcatgcgc agcatccgca cctgggccct cgagacgttt gggaccgaga aggccattct   480
              cctggtggcc atggcaactc cggaggacct caggataaac gcggagcaca taaggatcgc   540
              cgaccagttc ttggaagtcc ctggcggaac aaacaataac aattatgcga atgtgcagct   600
              cattgtggag gttagcacaa tgaccattct cccggtcctt tttactagct tgttgattta   660
              gcctatccat gtttcttgtg ctggatattt gactagttac ttaatgtttc taccttcact   720
                                                  Page 15

              gtcacagata gcagagagaa ctcgggtttc tgcggtttgg cctggctggg gccatgcttc    780
<removed-date>
              tgagaacccg gaacttccag acgcgctcaa ggagaaggga atcatttttc ttgggccacc    840
              atcagccgcg atggctgcac ttggtgataa gattggttct tctcttattg cgcaagcagc    900
              aggagttccg actcttccat ggagtggatc acatgtatac gttcttctat ttctgtatag    960
              ttttgatcct ctttttttta tcggctgcta tgttgcttaa aattaaatcc aaatcaactc 1020
              taggtgaaag ttccgcaaga aacctgccac ttgatacctg aggacatcta taagaaagct 1080
<removed-apn>
              tgtgttacaa ctacagagga agcggtggct agttgtcagg tggtggggta tcctgcaatg 1140
              atcaaggcat catggggtgg tggtggtaaa ggaataagga aggttggtct tctttttagt 1200
              tcaactctac cgcaattata tggaaagtct ctgctcacaa acgatacatg gaaatgtcca 1260
              ctgtccatgc aaaatgaagc taaggttttc ggtaaatatt gtagaataaa cgaaagatga 1320
              ttttgatgtc atccaaatgg tttttatagg tccacaatga tgatgaggtg agagccttgt 1380
              ttaagcaagt gcaaggagaa gtccccggat cacctata                           1418
              <210>      8
              <211>      572
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      8
              agttcttgtt tggtttagcc agttcttgtt tattgatctt ttgtaccttg tgttctgcct     60
              caacggattc taatttttat gcaatcagtt ggagcgtaaa tacgatgaat ttaagttgaa    120
              tattgaccat atgaagacca aggatttccc caccgagatg cttagagaga caatcaaggt    180
              cagtttttgg tttctgatgg catcccggtc taagttgtac tattttttgt aacaagtttt    240
              cttttaggaa aatcttgcat atgtttctga gaatgaaatg gcgacaattg aaaggcttgt    300
              tgagcctctg atgagcctac tgaagtcata tgagggtggg ctagaaagcc atgcccactt    360
              tattgtcaag tcccttttcg aggagtatct cttggttgag gaactattca gtgatggcat    420
              tcaggtattc tttcatttca aaactgagaa aatctactag attcattttt acgggtcatt   480
              ccttttaaac atatatgaac tgatgttata tactccatcc gtccataaaa ggatgtcgga   540
              ggtttgtcca aattcggatg tatctgtaca ct                                 572
                                                    Page 16

              <210>      9
<removed-date>
              <211>      735
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      9
              ttttactcct gtcagtattc agcgagtgct tctgtactga tatatcttat atcatgtcta    60
              aaagcttgcc ttttctgtta tttctctgta gagccgacat ctagaggttc agctgctctg   120
<removed-apn>
              tgacaaacac ggcaatgtag cagcactgca cagtcgagac tgtagtgttc aaagaaggca   180
              ccaaaaggtt agaaattctc ctgaaaaatt atgttgtcca atatcagttt ccttggagct   240
              aatacatgcc gaaacattgt atactgagta ctggtagaag ttctgtagct ttagggattg   300
              gcaaagtgct aaactctgca gaagctatac aaaatttgag ttcaatattt ttttaaatgg   360
              aaacatttat ttctgtcaag tactgtattg taagtagttg aaccttgaac gttatgtttt   420
              gaactcaaga actaactttt tctctatagt gatacgtgtt gcaattatta ttgaaaagtc   480
              taatttactg cattactaat tagtccttcc gatccaaatt aattgacaca gatatgccta   540
              catttgcatg tatctacaca ctaaaactcg tctatatcat gtgtatctag acaaatccgc   600
              gtcaattgtt tggaaccaag ggaccatttc ataaccacaa gttaactagt ccaactgtgc   660
              aagacaaaaa aaaaatataa taataatatg agctgacaag ccttgccaaa actgtgcttc   720
              ttacattttt gtgaa                                                    735
              <210>      10
              <211>      1887
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      10
              ctacaagaga ttacggcgga ggatatctga ggacgttctt gcaaaagaaa taagaagtgt    60
              aattggtgtc gagtcttctc acaaatcagc aatggagttg attaagaagt ggtacttggc   120
              ttctgagaca gctggaggaa gcactgaatg ggatgatgac gatgcttttg tagcctggag   180
              ggagaaccct gaaaactaca aggagcatat cagggagctt agggctcaaa gggtatctca   240
              ggagctctca gatgatgcag actccagatc ggatttacaa gccttgccac agggtctttc   300
              catgctacta gataaggtac acatgcttac agttttagct gcatctattt tgtttgcaag   360
                                                  Page 17

              ttatttgctg agggtgagta aaatgttgct tagtctgtaa ccaaacaatg caaatatctt    420
<removed-date>
              tttcatgtag tatgacccca aataatgtct gacacacttt tctttggaca ctttgtagat    480
              ggatccctct aggagagcag agtttattga ggaggtcaag aaggtcctca aatgatcaaa    540
              tgataccacc acatccaaca cagaatgtgc atgatatctg tttctcttga agtacatata   600
              tagaaggata caaggcggct gtaaccgatc gtagccaatc tgggccaacc attattattg   660
              tgaacttgtt ggtggtcttg cttttgggac cccctccggc tggttgagga gtgtaagtgg   720
<removed-apn>
              gatgtgttag ttctgctgcc acatgatttg agagaatagg ggcagcgggt tacctaagaa   780
              cactggtgat ctttctctgg tgctttagtt ctgtgatgtt actatggtct gttcgttgct    840
              gtaactctag tcttgaagtg tgattcagat gtccattcaa ttttgaactt gaataatgtg    900
              ttttgtaggc ttatgtgtac ctgtacgtgg aataaatgtc cgttgagcta gcattcaaca    960
              tgtaaatctg ctcggattgt aatgtatgtt agaattctga tcttgtatgt ctttccactt 1020
              gatagcatgt cgcctggctt ctggcaacat acacgctatc agaatggtta gcttgcgtta 1080
              ggtgttactg aagctcataa ctgtcgccca tcctgtttct caccggcttt acttaatatc 1140
              tagcccatgt ttgtcagcaa agggtttact ctgctgaaag tttcaagttc tcaagaaata 1200
              ttttgggttg gatctatcgt aagagttgta agttggcgtg agctaatgca gtttgcgaca 1260
              gggataaggt gtttacgttt ctatgtcggg agcaattctc tctgacatcc tcaaattgac 1320
              gagcagaggg gtgaacttat gtttacagat atgtaaatga tatgtgctac tgatgacact 1380
              cctatgtaat gacatgaact atttacccct ggactgctct ccccgtttct cctctcgtat 1440
              cactgtgcac acaaaatttt cttctgttga ctctggtaac taattcacat tccccacatt 1500
              cccctggact tgttactatg ctagggctgc cctgcgccat tttggtattt gttcattctt 1560
              cagctagtgc agttccgatt gttttattgc atgcatgtgg ttgtttcgtt ggggtaaaat 1620
              gctcgcacag tgtcacaact atgggtagaa ttttccctca aaagaaaaac tatagctaga 1680
              attttgagtt cagaactata cacgtatgca tggattagtg gcaccatcgt acttctggta 1740
              gttgatgaac agggacccaa ctcccggtta actaacgcat agaaacgaaa ccatccgaca 1800
              tagttcttac atatacacag ttaactaatg cagtgtaaca accaagtggc ttcacatagg 1860
              aacacccaca tgcaagaaaa tagatta                                       1887
                                                  Page 18

              <210>      11
<removed-date>
              <211>      402
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      11
              gctcatcacc aaccacctct tccgccacga gcagggggag gccttcgcgg cgtccgggta    60
              cgcccgcgcg tccggccgcg tcggggtctg cgtcgccacc tccggcccgg gggccaccaa   120
<removed-apn>
              cctcgtctcc gcgctcgccg acgccctcct cgactccatc cccatggtgg ccatcacggg   180
              gcaggtcccg cgccgcatga tcggcacgga cgccttccag gagacgccca tcgtcgaggt   240
              cacccgctcc atcaccaagc acaactacct cgtcctcgac gtcgaggaca tcccccgcgt   300
              catccaggaa gccttcttcc tcgcctcctc tggccgcccg ggcccggtgc tcgtcgacat   360
              ccccaaggac attcagcagc agatggctgt gcccgtctgg ga                      402
              <210>      12
              <211>      280
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      12
              ctctggcggt gccggcgcta tgggctactg catttcggcg gccttgggcg ccaaaactgg    60
              tcgtccggag gctatcgtct ggggtatcga cggcgacggc tgtttccaac tggaccaacg   120
              ggaactcgct actgttgccc ttaatagtgc tcctgccaag aatagtgctc ctgtcaagat   180
              cgccatcatt gacaccgttg ctctacttcg tgccaaggcc gttgacgcct cactggaatc   240
              gctgacgatc gaggccaccg ggagacgtga gaagctggat                         280
              <210>      13
              <211>      337
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      13
              ccccttcgcc ttcgccctcg cccgcccctc ctgccaccgc gctccgtcca tggggcccat    60
              ccgagccccg caagggcgcc gacatcctcg tcgaggccct cgagcgctgc ggcatcagcg   120
              acgtcttcgc ctacccgggc ggcgcctcaa tggagatcca ccaggcgctc acgcgctcgc   180
                                                  Page 19

              cgctcatcac caaccacctc ttccgccacg agcaggggga ggccttcgcg gcgtccgggt   240
<removed-date>
              acgcccgcgc gtccggccgc gtcggggtct gcgtcgccac ctccggcccg ggggccacca   300
              acctcgtctc cgcgctcgcc gacgccctcc tcgactc                            337
              <210>      14
              <211>      795
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
<removed-apn>
              <400>      14
              ctcctcgact ccatcccgat ggtggccatc acggggcagg tcccgcgccg catgatcggc    60
              acggacgcct tccaggagac gcccatcgtc gaggtcaccc gctccatcac caagcacaac   120
              tacctcgtcc tcgacgtcga ggacatcccc cgcgtcatcc aggaggcctt cttcctcgcc   180
              tcctctggcc gcccgggccc ggtgctcgtc gacatcccca aggacatcca gcagcagatg   240
              gctgtgcccg tctgggacgc gcccatgagt ctgccaggct acattgcccg cctgcctaag   300
              ccgccggcta ctgaattgct tgagcaggtc ctgcgtttgg ttggtgaggc gagacgccca   360
              attctctatg ttggcggtgg ctgctctgca tccggagagg agctgcgccg ctttgttgag   420
              ctcactggga tcccagttac aactaccctc atgggtcttg gcaacttccc cagcgacgac   480
              ccgctgtctc tgcgtatgct tgggatgcat ggcactgtct acgcaaacta cgccgtagat   540
              aaggctgacc tgttgcttgc gtttggcgtg aggtttgatg atcgcgtgac tgggaaaatc   600
              gaggcttttg cgagcaggtc caagattgtg cacattgaca ttgatccagc tgagattggc   660
              aagaacaagc agccgcatgt ctccatttgt gcagatgtca agctcgcttt gcagggcctg   720
              aatgctctgc taactgggag caaagcacac aagagtttcg attttggttc ctggcatgag   780
              gagttggagc agcag                                                    795
              <210>      15
              <211>      878
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      15
              cgctttgcag ggcctgaatg ctctgctaac tgggagcaaa gcacaaaaga gtttcgattt    60
              tgcctcgtgg catgaggagt tggagcagca gaaaagggag tttcctctgg gatacaaaac   120
                                                  Page 20

<removed-date>
              tttcggggag gccatcccac cgcaatatgc tatccaggta ctggatgagc tcaccaaagg   180
              cgaggccatc attgccactg gtgttgggca gcaccagatg tgggcggctc agtattacac   240
              ctacaagcgc ccacggcagt ggctgtcttc ggctggtctg ggggcaatgg gctttgggtt   300
              gccagctgca gctggcgccg ctgtggctaa cccaggtgtc acagttgttg acattgatgg   360
              ggatggtagc ttcctcatga acattcagga gttagcgctg attcgcattg agaacctccc   420
<removed-apn>
              agttaaggtg atgatattga acaaccaaca tcttggaatg gtggtgcagt gggaggacag   480
              gttttacaag gccaatcggg cgcatacata ccttgggaac ccagaaaatg agagtgagat   540
              atatccagat tttgtgacca ttgctaaagg gttcaatgtt cctgcagttc gggtgacaaa   600
              gaggagtgaa gtccgtgcag caatcaagaa gatgcttgag actcctgggc catacttgtt   660
              ggatatcatc gtccctcacc aggagcatgt gctgcctatg atccctagcg gtggtgcttt   720
              taaggacatt atcatggaag gtgatggcag gattgcgtat taatcgggac ttctgcaaga   780
              gctccaccta caagacctac aagtgcaata tgcctaatca gcatgatgct ggtgtatgtt   840
              atatccatgt gttcgctaat ttgcttgttt gatgagct                           878
              <210>      16
              <211>      273
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      16
              gccccgagct gattttctga cggggaattt ggtctggttg cagggtgcgg cgccacacga    60
              tctcggtctt cgtcggggac gagagcggca tgatcaaccg gatcgccggg gtgttcgcca   120
              ggaggggcta caacatcgag tcgctcgccg tggggctcaa caaggacaag gcgctattca   180
              ccatcgtcgt ctccgggacg gacagggtgc tcaagcaggt catcgagcag ctcaacaagc   240
              tcgtcaacgt cctgaacgtg agttttccgc cgc                                273
              <210>      17
              <211>      5106
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      17
                                                     Page 21

              cgccggtgcc accccgcccc aggggctcgt aagtttctcg ccccgctgag gactagtttt    60
<removed-date>
              ctcatgccct tccgatcttc aagtcgaggt acagtaacat tttatttcca atggggtata   120
              taggactgta aagcgccaca cggtatcggt gttcgttggg gacgagagcg ggatgatcaa   180
              ccgaattgcc ggggttttcg ccaggagagg gtacaacatc gagtcgttgg ccgttgggct   240
              gaacaaggac aaggcgctgt tcacgatagt agtgtccgga acagagaaag tactccaaca   300
              ggttgtggag cagctctaca aacttgttaa tgttatacag gtcagtaggt tcctccaatg   360
<removed-apn>
              ccacttgaat tacaagatca ttgctaactg atacgtagta atgctccatc aattgaatca   420
              ttcgtttcag ttttcatgct tatttcagtc gtcagatcct ctgatattcg tagctttgta   480
              tattgatgga acaggttgag gatttgtcaa aggagccaca agttgagaga gagctcatgc   540
              tgataaagct gaatgtagag ccagagcagc gcctcgaggt aaagtttgta tgtgcgtagg   600
              atgctcgatt atatgcttca gctggactgg atgtgagggt aaaacgttgg tactctttgc   660
              ttatttctcc actgggacat gcaggtgatg gggttggttg acattttcag agcaaaagtg   720
              gttgatcttt cagaccggac actgactatt gaggtaaaat ccatggtgtg ttgtatcttg   780
              ctgatcgctt acatcgtcac ttgtatgctt ttattaaacc aaagtatgct ctctgttttt   840
              tttacacatt ccaaaggtaa ctggagatcc tggaaaaatg gtagctgtac agaggaacct   900
              gagcaaattt gggatcaaag aagttgccag aactggcaag gttatacttc ttgtgtaaat   960
              attaggacct catgttcttg actagattta atgggcctta ttaatatata gatagctttg 1020
              cggcgtgaga aaatgggaca agcggccccc ttttggaggt tctctgtaga atcatatcct 1080
              gatctggaag tgaaaaggcc ttcagaatct accctaagca ctgcatcaaa gacaaccaat 1140
              ggcgagtctg aagaatcttt gcaggtagga catggtaatt ctcatcattc atatagtttt 1200
              tcatgtatcc attttttctt caggattgca acaagattgt ttctttattt tgacctggtt 1260
              tattgtgtta tttgagtttt tatcatgcat tcacagaaat caacacatgt aatagaatta 1320
              tctctctttc attcaatatt ataaattcta ttatttactg atttggtctt aatgaagatt 1380
              tcttattgtt tattttgtta aggtatgtcc taattctttt ttccgttctg agtttagaag 1440
              ggaaagtaat atacacttag ataatgtacc aatattgatg cttgcaagtg caccttatat 1500
              atatgcaaag cgtattgatg caattagctt gatttgccat ttatgcatat gttttgtaga 1560
              caagcaggag ttgatgcatc atttaaattg tttttatgat tcataatatc agcattatgc 1620
                                                  Page 22

<removed-date>
              tggcaattac tagttttttt ttttaaagca gtaagaagtt ggctgtctta tagcataact 1680
              agatctcaca aacaatgtaa acatgaccat gactagttcg ttttgtgtga acaagtttat 1740
              tgcaaatacc tttttctata attcacacat agttgtggtt tgcagttcga tgactgattt 1800
              atatgttctt atgttttatt actagggcga tgtttatcca gtggaaactt atgaaagctt 1860
              ctcgataaat caaattcttg atgctcattg gggtgtgatg actgacagtg atgtaagttc 1920
<removed-apn>
              ttggattctt ctatcactag agcttctgtg ttgctgaaag ttaatggcaa gagtcccagt 1980
              gcctaatgga gcataaatta catttgtttg cactaaatta caattgcaac ttaaatacct 2040
              atttcgaaaa taactggaat actttgcttt cttcagccta cagggttttg ttcacatact 2100
              ttgtcgatcc ttgttaatga tttccctgga gttctcaatg ttgtaactgg tatcttttcc 2160
              cgaaggggct acaatattca ggtttgtttt ccacctgtag atatcttatg ttccctcaat 2220
              tagatcactc caggttacag tgttgcagtt cattgctaac aggttgtatc cattactttg 2280
              acagagtctt gctgttggtc cagctgaaaa aataggcact tctcgcatca ctactgtcgt 2340
              tcctgggagt gatgagtcta tcgccaagct aatacatcaa ctttacaagc ttatcgacgt 2400
              ttatgaggtg aacttattaa tgttgtggtt tgcaggattg ttgttccaca tgtaaggtta 2460
              gctcacaatc gccttgattt ttcaggtcca agatcttaca catttaccgt ttactgctag 2520
              agagttaatg atcataaagg tcgctgggaa cacttcagct cgcagggcta tcctggatat 2580
              tgctgaggat gttttcgggg ccaaaacggt tgacgtatca gaccacacaa taacccttca 2640
              ggtaataatt actttgttct tttggacgca actgctggat ttaggacata tatatgcttt 2700
              tgctggtagg ataaatcaat gagtttgatt taagcttgtt ttacctttca tttaggcatg 2760
              ttgattgtag acagtagaaa cctgaatatt tagcaaatat agccttaact tggaacaata 2820
              tctgtgttgt tgtcaattag ctcataaatt tcagcataga tcaagtgaaa tcatgctatt 2880
              ttgaagtatg gtatttatcc aagttgttta aagtagaaac atgaagattc atcaaatgaa 2940
              gtctttactt tatctctttg agcattatta taagtgttgc tgtcagccag ctgatgaaat 3000
              ttcagtatag atcaaactga aatgctgcta ttttgaatat atagggtatt tatccatttg 3060
              aaaaatgcgg gagtttctag attttttcaa tgtcctgtat tataggttac agcgccgaat 3120
              catatgtaca tgattactta tctaattttt gagtacttat caagaactaa tttatagcct 3180
                                                  Page 23

              cttttaaaag gaaatttgga tgattttaat cctttaaatt ttcatatgtg gctgtttggt 3240
<removed-date>
              atgcatttat aatccatatg attttttctt gaggattcaa ttgcagtata tttcatagaa 3300
              acatttccac taattcaaac cttgtggaat gatatctttg tttttcctgt ggcgtaatca 3360
              aacacccttt ggtcgagatt cttgttgtat ttaaccctac tattcaggaa gccatgaaat 3420
              tcctccttca cctttccctg catttttttg aatcttgcaa gtcaaagagt cccttgagga 3480
              caatgtattt agtggcatca atgtttttta ataagtagcc atcttaatgg catgcagctc 3540
<removed-apn>
              actggagacc ttcataaaat ggtcgcacta caaaggatgc ttgagccgta cggcatctgt 3600
              gaggtttgta ttgaaggttc actttgcaaa tgcacaatag tgtcgataat tcgtgattgc 3660
              agagtactta ttccaatgta aatcgtagtt tagcaactac aatatttcaa attattagtt 3720
              acagtggatc ctttaccatc cttggccata tgcattctgc agatcgcacg aactggcagg 3780
              gttgcgctga gccgtgagtc aggagtcgat tccaagtacc tccgtgggta ttctcttcct 3840
              ctataacatg gcagttggcg agacttcacg ccaatcagtt tgcagattgc cattcttctg 3900
              ataccggatc tcctaaactc cgaatgtgca atggtttttc gtttgtttgg agcatacagc 3960
              aaaaaggcac cggtcacatt taggttaact agatttacac catcttctaa agtttttttt 4020
              atagatacta cagagaaatg gaattgagat ttttaatccc atgtgaatac catgttttgg 4080
              gcttccttct tcgaagtagg aaacagaatt atatctgaaa ttatgcttcc aagaagattt 4140
              taactttctg aatcatagtt aaatttggcg cgagcactct aaattcattt tttttactcc 4200
              aagtagtttt aagagtgtat aatgaacgtt taggcttcct acttacgaat actgcaacta 4260
              gcagcgatca ttagtcttct gcaaagttat agatcaaatt taagaccact ccttcaaact 4320
              agttatttat gtgcccaatg tcgcattagc actcaaatgc aacttagatt cttccgtgcg 4380
              aacaaatcac agataacatg ccatttcttg gcggaaggag tcatgctagt ttttgttgct 4440
              gttgttgttg ttgcgacaac tcatgctaga ttgctagttg catctggcat gctagaaatt 4500
              cagaactgat gcattgtttg acagcgtcga ttcatttgtg agaatataaa cgatcattgt 4560
              cttgcatgga caaatgatgt ggattattat gttttgcatg cacatatgat gtggatagta 4620
              cataacgcta aaaggtgatg gaattaaaaa ggtgatatcc gcgtctcgac tgaattggac 4680
              ttggggcatt tgaaacgaaa gaaaacccaa cgaattggct caagggtatc caaaacgatc 4740
              gaaatacaat gttcctctta cgtcgataaa aatatactgt atcatccgat ggtaattaaa 4800
                                                  Page 24

<removed-date>
              aaacgatcga actaattatt ccatccgttc cagataaact gaagctttgc cctaatttaa 4860
              aaaaatgatc acgtctaggg aaaaagtgta cttcctccat ctaacaaaag acgtctcaac 4920
              gtttgtttta gtttggatgc atcttcaaac tcttgtaagt tttgatcacg tttattgaaa 4980
              aaattgccac agatacatct aaatttagat aaagtcaaga taatttttgt acaatgaagg 5040
              aagtaattta tttaaaaaaa tatacgacct ctgctcataa aagaatgtca caaatttatc 5100
<removed-apn>
              taaatt                                                              5106
              <210>      18
              <211>      1493
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      18
              taacacagct actgtgacga acctaagctg attttcatta tcatgcctgg tctgtttatc     60
              tctagacctg ccatggagat gaattttaat agtttgaagt gatcttttcc gttttatcct    120
              aaaaggtcat atgtcgtggg ctttgcagat ttcttttctt attgtatgtt cttatgtgat    180
              tgtaataaga gtactagtat aatttttctt tgatatttat tctatttcaa tccaataaaa    240
              ttgcaggttg aagatctatc taaggaacct caggttgaaa gagagctcat gcttataaaa    300
              ctcaatgcca aaccagatca acgtgctgcc gtaagatatg ctgttgatct gtatttccac    360
              gatatcaaaa cattgtttag tcattgaatt agtggtattg gtacttctat tttaaagggt    420
              tgtaacagga ctcttgcctc atggttgaca ggtcatgctt gtagctaatg tattcagagc   480
              gaaggttgtt gatatttccg agaattctct aaccctagag gtaaagactt gacttcaaac   540
              agtattataa ggactagggt gttccgtgtc tatgctggat taaattttct tgatgctgat    600
              atggcaaatg ctgcaggtca ctggagatcc tggaaagatt gttgcggcac aaaggagcct    660
              aagcaaattt gggatcgaag aaatttgtag aacgggaaaa gtatttttct ggaccatttg    720
              ctacgtacat gcatgggcac atttcttcat tgtctaattc ttctatctca atgttcttag    780
              attgctttga ttcgtgaaaa aattggaaca gctgcccgtt tctggggatt ttctactgct    840
              tcttacccag acctcataga agcatcaccc agaaaccctc ttcttacttc tccgaaaaag    900
              acggttaatg gcagttttga tcagccatcc agtgctgggg tatgtttcca tgaatataag   960
                                                  Page 25

              accaactaca tatttattgc atattccttc ttgttctgct tcaactgttc taaaagcgag 1020
<removed-date>
              gcaacgctta ggctataggt gccacagtct gcctagtacc ttttaaaacg ctgttactcc 1080
              ctccgatcca aaatacttgt ccaaaaatgg gagaatctac acactaaaac acgtctagat 1140
              acatgcattt ttgggcaagt attttggacc ggatagagta tttgtagttt taaatacttg 1200
              gtaatctaca ccacgccgaa aagatgcccc ttttacatga atgacacaat caataatttg 1260
              atgtgcaata acagagaaga tctcacgaac tgcgtatctt taatagctat agtgtaaaca 1320
<removed-apn>
              aaggaaactg aacttctctg tcaccagtaa acatcccagt gcagccgtag cactgtaagt 1380
              gaatttatag gtgaaggtaa tttgtatacc tggccttagc aaagcaaaaa aaaaattgct 1440
              catacagtga aactggggag atacctgcgt gctgacaaaa ctaaaaacca cac          1493
              <210>      19
              <211>      473
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      19
              gcgtcacgcc ggtgccgccc cgccccaggg gctcgtaagt ttcatacccc gctgaacact     60
              agttttctta tgcccttctg atcttcaagt cgaagtaact ttttattatt tccaatgtgc    120
              tatgtaggac tgtaaagcgc cacacggtat cagtgtttgt cggggacgag agcgggatga    180
              tcaaccgaat tgccggggtc ttcgcgagga gagggtacaa catcgagtcg ttggccgtcg   240
              ggctgaacaa ggacaaggcg ctgttcacga tagtggtgtc cggaacagag aaagtactcc   300
              aacaggttgt ggagcagctc tacaaacttg ttaatgtcat acaggtcagt atgttcctcc    360
              aatatgccac ttgaattaca agatcattgc taactgatgc ttagtaatgc gccatcagtt    420
              gaatcattcg tttcagtttc agtgcttatt tcagtcgtca gatcctctga tat          473
              <210>      20
              <211>      1324
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      20
              gtatgagtga ctagcccacc accaatggat agcaccataa gaagccgacc tttgacgatg     60
              aaaatgtgca cacaaaagat aaccaaggtt tggtcttgca cttggttatt cccaaacaat   120
                                                  Page 26

<removed-date>
              gcttggtgaa taacacaaat gtcagggcca gtgatgcaac ccatgtgccc ccttccaaaa    180
              ttggattagc gcaaaaaata tgccaaatag agaataagag ggttttggat agtagaaact    240
              ttgtttcgaa tatactttct atcctggtgg actaagattt tctcctaggt gctagcagcg    300
              tctactagca atgcattaga aacagttgaa ccgacttccc catctttaga aaagccaaaa    360
              atgtcacaaa actcatgaag tgatgtaggt tggtattccc catcgatagg gaattcgacc    420
<removed-apn>
              caataattac cagaggcttc gcggatgttg tccttgaagg tggccatgaa ctcgtgggtg   480
              atgctggctc aggtgtccct gcgtagcctc gagaacttcc caagtaccgc gcggttggcc   540
              atcgtgttga agtctgaaag gatagagatg gtaacctgag ggttgtgaat gggttctaca    600
              attttttaaa attctcttgc aattttagga tttgcagaaa tgtaatcaaa cgtgtcaaat    660
              atttgctagt catttagctt gaaaccaaat ggaagccaat gggtttgcca aaattttgga    720
              ggtaccgtgg cctacaatcc aaacagccac aagttgccaa tattttggct atgccctata    780
              tttggccata ccaatatttt ggccgggtta gagtgggcgc aatctaaata gcgccttggt    840
              tatccgtggg agaaaaatac tagagcaggg atagttgttg tgacttgtga cctcggtatt    900
              cgacgccgaa gttgagcttc atgactatag ggcgggcccc gatgaactta gggaagtccg   960
              acgacgtctt accggcccga tgccaccaaa gctgaccttc tcgccaccac caccgctcat 1020
              ctttctttcg gtgtgtgtct tgttcgtgtg cgggtctcgc gctaggatcc gacgactcca 1080
              agaaaggaac aagactttgt tgggcttgcg gagttaatat tcagtatttt cgggcctcct 1140
              cacgccgcgc cctcgccgcc cccatcaggt gctccgcggt gtccccttcg ccctcgccct 1200
              cgcccgcccc tcccgccacc gcgctccgtc catggggccc atccgagccc cgcaagggcg 1260
              ccgacatcct cgtcgaggcc ctcgagcgct gcggcatcag cgacgtcttc gcctacccgg 1320
              gcgg                                                                1324
              <210>      21
              <211>      912
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      21
              cgctagggat cataggcagc agcattcagg ccctgcaaag cgagcttgac atctgcacaa     60
                                                  Page 27

              atggagacat gcggctgctt gttcttgcca atctcagcct acatacctcg ctctgctacc   120
<removed-date>
              agctgcagct ggcgccgctg tggctaaccc aggtgtcaca gttgttgaca ttgatgggga   180
              tggtagcttc ctcatgaaca ttcaggagtt agcgctgagg cgataagtcg tgtcttaccc   240
              accgctaggg atcataggca gcacatgctc ctggtgaggg acgatgatat ccaggtgtca   300
              cagttgttga cattgatggg gatggtagct tcctcatgaa cattcaggag ttggcgctga   360
              ttcgcattga gaacctccca gttaaggtga tgatattgaa caaccaacat cttggaatgg   420
<removed-apn>
              tggtgcagtg ggaggacagg ttttacaagg ccaatcgggc gcatacatac cttgggaacc   480
              cagaaaatga gagtgagata tatccagatt ttgtgaccat tgctaaaggg ttcaatgttc   540
              ctgcagttcg ggtgacaaag aggagtgaag tccgtgcagc aatcaagaag atgcttgaga   600
              ctcctgggcc atacttgttg gatatcatcg tccctcacca ggagcatgtg ctgcctatga   660
              tccctagcgg tggtgctttt aaggacatta tcatggaagg tgatggcagg attgcgtatt   720
              aatcgaaact tctgcaggag ctccacctac aagacctaca agtgcaatat gcctgatcag   780
              catgatgctg gtgtatgtta tatccatgtg ttcgctaatt tgcttgtttg atgagcatgg   840
              tttggtaatc ttacctagct ctgaaccttc taggttttct agtctgttct tttccgtagg   900
              catatgctgt ca                                                       912
              <210>      22
              <211>      5106
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      22
              cgccggtgcc accccgcccc aggggctcgt aagtttctcg ccccgctgag gactagtttt    60
              ctcatgccct tccgatcttc aagtcgaggt acagtaacat tttatttcca atggggtata   120
              taggactgta aagcgccaca cggtatcggt gttcgttggg gacgagagcg ggatgatcaa   180
              ccgaattgcc ggggttttcg ccaggagagg gtacaacatc gagtcgttgg ccgttgggct   240
              gaacaaggac aaggcgctgt tcacgatagt agtgtccgga acagagaaag tactccaaca   300
              ggttgtggag cagctctaca aacttgttaa tgttatacag gtcagtaggt tcctccaatg   360
              ccacttgaat tacaagatca ttgctaactg atacgtagta atgctccatc aattgaatca   420
              ttcgtttcag ttttcatgct tatttcagtc gtcagatcct ctgatattcg tagctttgta   480
                                                  Page 28

<removed-date>
              tattgatgga acaggttgag gatttgtcaa aggagccaca agttgagaga gagctcatgc   540
              tgataaagct gaatgtagag ccagagcagc gcctcgaggt aaagtttgta tgtgcgtagg   600
              atgctcgatt atatgcttca gctggactgg atgtgagggt aaaacgttgg tactctttgc   660
              ttatttctcc actgggacat gcaggtgatg gggttggttg acattttcag agcaaaagtg   720
              gttgatcttt cagaccggac actgactatt gaggtaaaat ccatggtgtg ttgtatcttg   780
<removed-apn>
              ctgatcgctt acatcgtcac ttgtatgctt ttattaaacc aaagtatgct ctctgttttt   840
              tttacacatt ccaaaggtaa ctggagatcc tggaaaaatg gtagctgtac agaggaacct   900
              gagcaaattt gggatcaaag aagttgccag aactggcaag gttatacttc ttgtgtaaat   960
              attaggacct catgttcttg actagattta atgggcctta ttaatatata gatagctttg 1020
              cggcgtgaga aaatgggaca agcggccccc ttttggaggt tctctgtaga atcatatcct 1080
              gatctggaag tgaaaaggcc ttcagaatct accctaagca ctgcatcaaa gacaaccaat 1140
              ggcgagtctg aagaatcttt gcaggtagga catggtaatt ctcatcattc atatagtttt 1200
              tcatgtatcc attttttctt caggattgca acaagattgt ttctttattt tgacctggtt 1260
              tattgtgtta tttgagtttt tatcatgcat tcacagaaat caacacatgt aatagaatta 1320
              tctctctttc attcaatatt ataaattcta ttatttactg atttggtctt aatgaagatt 1380
              tcttattgtt tattttgtta aggtatgtcc taattctttt ttccgttctg agtttagaag 1440
              ggaaagtaat atacacttag ataatgtacc aatattgatg cttgcaagtg caccttatat 1500
              atatgcaaag cgtattgatg caattagctt gatttgccat ttatgcatat gttttgtaga 1560
              caagcaggag ttgatgcatc atttaaattg tttttatgat tcataatatc agcattatgc 1620
              tggcaattac tagttttttt ttttaaagca gtaagaagtt ggctgtctta tagcataact 1680
              agatctcaca aacaatgtaa acatgaccat gactagttcg ttttgtgtga acaagtttat 1740
              tgcaaatacc tttttctata attcacacat agttgtggtt tgcagttcga tgactgattt 1800
              atatgttctt atgttttatt actagggcga tgtttatcca gtggaaactt atgaaagctt 1860
              ctcgataaat caaattcttg atgctcattg gggtgtgatg actgacagtg atgtaagttc 1920
              ttggattctt ctatcactag agcttctgtg ttgctgaaag ttaatggcaa gagtcccagt 1980
              gcctaatgga gcataaatta catttgtttg cactaaatta caattgcaac ttaaatacct 2040
                                                  Page 29

              atttcgaaaa taactggaat actttgcttt cttcagccta cagggttttg ttcacatact 2100
<removed-date>
              ttgtcgatcc ttgttaatga tttccctgga gttctcaatg ttgtaactgg tatcttttcc 2160
              cgaaggggct acaatattca ggtttgtttt ccacctgtag atatcttatg ttccctcaat 2220
              tagatcactc caggttacag tgttgcagtt cattgctaac aggttgtatc cattactttg 2280
              acagagtctt gctgttggtc cagctgaaaa aataggcact tctcgcatca ctactgtcgt 2340
              tcctgggagt gatgagtcta tcgccaagct aatacatcaa ctttacaagc ttatcgacgt 2400
<removed-apn>
              ttatgaggtg aacttattaa tgttgtggtt tgcaggattg ttgttccaca tgtaaggtta 2460
              gctcacaatc gccttgattt ttcaggtcca agatcttaca catttaccgt ttactgctag 2520
              agagttaatg atcataaagg tcgctgggaa cacttcagct cgcagggcta tcctggatat 2580
              tgctgaggat gttttcgggg ccaaaacggt tgacgtatca gaccacacaa taacccttca 2640
              ggtaataatt actttgttct tttggacgca actgctggat ttaggacata tatatgcttt 2700
              tgctggtagg ataaatcaat gagtttgatt taagcttgtt ttacctttca tttaggcatg 2760
              ttgattgtag acagtagaaa cctgaatatt tagcaaatat agccttaact tggaacaata 2820
              tctgtgttgt tgtcaattag ctcataaatt tcagcataga tcaagtgaaa tcatgctatt 2880
              ttgaagtatg gtatttatcc aagttgttta aagtagaaac atgaagattc atcaaatgaa 2940
              gtctttactt tatctctttg agcattatta taagtgttgc tgtcagccag ctgatgaaat 3000
              ttcagtatag atcaaactga aatgctgcta ttttgaatat atagggtatt tatccatttg 3060
              aaaaatgcgg gagtttctag attttttcaa tgtcctgtat tataggttac agcgccgaat 3120
              catatgtaca tgattactta tctaattttt gagtacttat caagaactaa tttatagcct 3180
              cttttaaaag gaaatttgga tgattttaat cctttaaatt ttcatatgtg gctgtttggt 3240
              atgcatttat aatccatatg attttttctt gaggattcaa ttgcagtata tttcatagaa 3300
              acatttccac taattcaaac cttgtggaat gatatctttg tttttcctgt ggcgtaatca 3360
              aacacccttt ggtcgagatt cttgttgtat ttaaccctac tattcaggaa gccatgaaat 3420
              tcctccttca cctttccctg catttttttg aatcttgcaa gtcaaagagt cccttgagga 3480
              caatgtattt agtggcatca atgtttttta ataagtagcc atcttaatgg catgcagctc 3540
              actggagacc ttcataaaat ggtcgcacta caaaggatgc ttgagccgta cggcatctgt 3600
              gaggtttgta ttgaaggttc actttgcaaa tgcacaatag tgtcgataat tcgtgattgc 3660
                                                  Page 30

<removed-date>
              agagtactta ttccaatgta aatcgtagtt tagcaactac aatatttcaa attattagtt 3720
              acagtggatc ctttaccatc cttggccata tgcattctgc agatcgcacg aactggcagg 3780
              gttgcgctga gccgtgagtc aggagtcgat tccaagtacc tccgtgggta ttctcttcct 3840
              ctataacatg gcagttggcg agacttcacg ccaatcagtt tgcagattgc cattcttctg 3900
              ataccggatc tcctaaactc cgaatgtgca atggtttttc gtttgtttgg agcatacagc 3960
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaggcac cggtcacatt taggttaact agatttacac catcttctaa agtttttttt 4020
              atagatacta cagagaaatg gaattgagat ttttaatccc atgtgaatac catgttttgg 4080
              gcttccttct tcgaagtagg aaacagaatt atatctgaaa ttatgcttcc aagaagattt 4140
              taactttctg aatcatagtt aaatttggcg cgagcactct aaattcattt tttttactcc 4200
              aagtagtttt aagagtgtat aatgaacgtt taggcttcct acttacgaat actgcaacta 4260
              gcagcgatca ttagtcttct gcaaagttat agatcaaatt taagaccact ccttcaaact 4320
              agttatttat gtgcccaatg tcgcattagc actcaaatgc aacttagatt cttccgtgcg 4380
              aacaaatcac agataacatg ccatttcttg gcggaaggag tcatgctagt ttttgttgct 4440
              gttgttgttg ttgcgacaac tcatgctaga ttgctagttg catctggcat gctagaaatt 4500
              cagaactgat gcattgtttg acagcgtcga ttcatttgtg agaatataaa cgatcattgt 4560
              cttgcatgga caaatgatgt ggattattat gttttgcatg cacatatgat gtggatagta 4620
              cataacgcta aaaggtgatg gaattaaaaa ggtgatatcc gcgtctcgac tgaattggac 4680
              ttggggcatt tgaaacgaaa gaaaacccaa cgaattggct caagggtatc caaaacgatc 4740
              gaaatacaat gttcctctta cgtcgataaa aatatactgt atcatccgat ggtaattaaa 4800
              aaacgatcga actaattatt ccatccgttc cagataaact gaagctttgc cctaatttaa 4860
              aaaaatgatc acgtctaggg aaaaagtgta cttcctccat ctaacaaaag acgtctcaac 4920
              gtttgtttta gtttggatgc atcttcaaac tcttgtaagt tttgatcacg tttattgaaa 4980
              aaattgccac agatacatct aaatttagat aaagtcaaga taatttttgt acaatgaagg 5040
              aagtaattta tttaaaaaaa tatacgacct ctgctcataa aagaatgtca caaatttatc 5100
              taaatt                                                            5106
              <210>      23
                                                  Page 31

              <211>      1423
<removed-date>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      23
              ctgtggtttc attatcacca catagatgac aatatccaaa gtcatgtatc actgtatcac     60
              tttaccataa cacctcagca ttcaaatttt tgttggcagt tcttatattg gtcatagcta    120
              cattactagt aataaatgaa ctttctggcc tggacagtac tgacaatttt aaaagcagaa    180
<removed-apn>
              ctgaagcaac atacctctga gtaaaatgtt cccagacttc cattgcacat acgagatact    240
              gtattacagt atatctgttg ctgctgattc ttataatatg tggttgtatt gacttttgaa   300
              ttttgtgttc agggtgatgt gtatcctgtg gaaccttatg aaagcatgtc catgaaccaa   360
              gtacttgatg cccattgggg tgttcttgac gatgaagatg taagctaaaa gatttccatt    420
              tctgcaaaag aaacatcatt tgtttagtta aactaaatga cctataaact gtatctaaaa    480
              ctgttgtggc tgcagtgtgt tctcattttg tgtcttcatt atctttgcaa ccagtcagtg    540
              taaacagatg cctctatcgt aatagtgcca gcttctaagc taatgatgcc tttgtttggt    600
              acagtcaagc ggactttgct cacataccct ttccatcctt gtgaatgatt gtcctggtgt   660
              cctcaacatt ataacaggcg tctttgctcg caggggctac agtatacagg tttttttcaa   720
              aactttattg gttatgtagt gccaagctat ttttcaatga aaccatacta tttcccagag   780
              tcttgctgtt ggccgagctg aaaaggaagg catttcacgt attacaacag ttgttcccgg   840
              aactgatgaa tccattgaga agttagttca gcagctttac aagcttatcg atgtacttaa    900
              ggtaaatggc atgcaatttc ttagggcaat cattgacgat ataaaatatg ttgtgtaatg    960
              caaaacatgt gactgtccca ggttgaggac ttgactcact taccttttgc cgaaagagaa 1020
              ctgatgctta tcaaggtatc tgggaacacc gctgctcgga gggagatact agatatcggt 1080
              caaatcttcc gggcagaatg tctggatctt tctgatcaca cagttacgtt aatggtgagc 1140
              ttctggcttt ataaggtgtt gttttttatt gtcgatttta cacagtagat ttaccaactc 1200
              tcaagtgtgc tacggtgagt gttaaagcag cttgggtaca aacttaagat caagagaacc 1260
              atctcatgta taaacaaaaa gttagaggcc ttgctttcag aaactatttt tttgtatgat 1320
              ggtctttaga attcatatgt gcccagtgaa ttatcttgtg attttactgt tttgttttga 1380
              acagttgttc tggtagtatc aggatgaatt gcttacataa aaa                     1423
                                                  Page 32

<removed-date>
              <210>      24
              <211>      418
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      24
              agggtagaca agtttattgc agaaaccttt tctattatcc acatagtttt ttttacagtt    60
<removed-apn>
              tcatgattga tttatatatt cttatgttct tattactagg gtgatgttta cccagtggaa   120
              tcttatgaaa gcttctcaat gaatcaaatt cttgatgctc attggggtgt gatgactgac   180
              actgatgtaa gttcttgcat tcttctttca caagagctgc tgtgttgctg aaagttaatg   240
              gcaagagtcc caaaatctag tggagcataa attattaatt tatgtgcact aaattgcaat   300
              ttaaatgccc atttcgaaaa taactggcac acttttcttt cttcagccta caggattttg   360
              ttcacatact ttgtcaatcc ttgtgaatga tttccctgga gttctcaatg ttgtaacg     418
              <210>      25
              <211>      5106
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      25
              cgccggtgcc accccgcccc aggggctcgt aagtttctcg ccccgctgag gactagtttt    60
              ctcatgccct tccgatcttc aagtcgaggt acagtaacat tttatttcca atggggtata   120
              taggactgta aagcgccaca cggtatcggt gttcgttggg gacgagagcg ggatgatcaa   180
              ccgaattgcc ggggttttcg ccaggagagg gtacaacatc gagtcgttgg ccgttgggct   240
              gaacaaggac aaggcgctgt tcacgatagt agtgtccgga acagagaaag tactccaaca   300
              ggttgtggag cagctctaca aacttgttaa tgttatacag gtcagtaggt tcctccaatg   360
              ccacttgaat tacaagatca ttgctaactg atacgtagta atgctccatc aattgaatca   420
              ttcgtttcag ttttcatgct tatttcagtc gtcagatcct ctgatattcg tagctttgta   480
              tattgatgga acaggttgag gatttgtcaa aggagccaca agttgagaga gagctcatgc   540
              tgataaagct gaatgtagag ccagagcagc gcctcgaggt aaagtttgta tgtgcgtagg   600
              atgctcgatt atatgcttca gctggactgg atgtgagggt aaaacgttgg tactctttgc   660
                                                  Page 33

              ttatttctcc actgggacat gcaggtgatg gggttggttg acattttcag agcaaaagtg   720
<removed-date>
              gttgatcttt cagaccggac actgactatt gaggtaaaat ccatggtgtg ttgtatcttg   780
              ctgatcgctt acatcgtcac ttgtatgctt ttattaaacc aaagtatgct ctctgttttt   840
              tttacacatt ccaaaggtaa ctggagatcc tggaaaaatg gtagctgtac agaggaacct   900
              gagcaaattt gggatcaaag aagttgccag aactggcaag gttatacttc ttgtgtaaat   960
              attaggacct catgttcttg actagattta atgggcctta ttaatatata gatagctttg 1020
<removed-apn>
              cggcgtgaga aaatgggaca agcggccccc ttttggaggt tctctgtaga atcatatcct 1080
              gatctggaag tgaaaaggcc ttcagaatct accctaagca ctgcatcaaa gacaaccaat 1140
              ggcgagtctg aagaatcttt gcaggtagga catggtaatt ctcatcattc atatagtttt 1200
              tcatgtatcc attttttctt caggattgca acaagattgt ttctttattt tgacctggtt 1260
              tattgtgtta tttgagtttt tatcatgcat tcacagaaat caacacatgt aatagaatta 1320
              tctctctttc attcaatatt ataaattcta ttatttactg atttggtctt aatgaagatt 1380
              tcttattgtt tattttgtta aggtatgtcc taattctttt ttccgttctg agtttagaag 1440
              ggaaagtaat atacacttag ataatgtacc aatattgatg cttgcaagtg caccttatat 1500
              atatgcaaag cgtattgatg caattagctt gatttgccat ttatgcatat gttttgtaga 1560
              caagcaggag ttgatgcatc atttaaattg tttttatgat tcataatatc agcattatgc 1620
              tggcaattac tagttttttt ttttaaagca gtaagaagtt ggctgtctta tagcataact 1680
              agatctcaca aacaatgtaa acatgaccat gactagttcg ttttgtgtga acaagtttat 1740
              tgcaaatacc tttttctata attcacacat agttgtggtt tgcagttcga tgactgattt 1800
              atatgttctt atgttttatt actagggcga tgtttatcca gtggaaactt atgaaagctt 1860
              ctcgataaat caaattcttg atgctcattg gggtgtgatg actgacagtg atgtaagttc 1920
              ttggattctt ctatcactag agcttctgtg ttgctgaaag ttaatggcaa gagtcccagt 1980
              gcctaatgga gcataaatta catttgtttg cactaaatta caattgcaac ttaaatacct 2040
              atttcgaaaa taactggaat actttgcttt cttcagccta cagggttttg ttcacatact 2100
              ttgtcgatcc ttgttaatga tttccctgga gttctcaatg ttgtaactgg tatcttttcc 2160
              cgaaggggct acaatattca ggtttgtttt ccacctgtag atatcttatg ttccctcaat 2220
              tagatcactc caggttacag tgttgcagtt cattgctaac aggttgtatc cattactttg 2280
                                                  Page 34

<removed-date>
              acagagtctt gctgttggtc cagctgaaaa aataggcact tctcgcatca ctactgtcgt 2340
              tcctgggagt gatgagtcta tcgccaagct aatacatcaa ctttacaagc ttatcgacgt 2400
              ttatgaggtg aacttattaa tgttgtggtt tgcaggattg ttgttccaca tgtaaggtta 2460
              gctcacaatc gccttgattt ttcaggtcca agatcttaca catttaccgt ttactgctag 2520
              agagttaatg atcataaagg tcgctgggaa cacttcagct cgcagggcta tcctggatat 2580
<removed-apn>
              tgctgaggat gttttcgggg ccaaaacggt tgacgtatca gaccacacaa taacccttca 2640
              ggtaataatt actttgttct tttggacgca actgctggat ttaggacata tatatgcttt 2700
              tgctggtagg ataaatcaat gagtttgatt taagcttgtt ttacctttca tttaggcatg 2760
              ttgattgtag acagtagaaa cctgaatatt tagcaaatat agccttaact tggaacaata 2820
              tctgtgttgt tgtcaattag ctcataaatt tcagcataga tcaagtgaaa tcatgctatt 2880
              ttgaagtatg gtatttatcc aagttgttta aagtagaaac atgaagattc atcaaatgaa 2940
              gtctttactt tatctctttg agcattatta taagtgttgc tgtcagccag ctgatgaaat 3000
              ttcagtatag atcaaactga aatgctgcta ttttgaatat atagggtatt tatccatttg 3060
              aaaaatgcgg gagtttctag attttttcaa tgtcctgtat tataggttac agcgccgaat 3120
              catatgtaca tgattactta tctaattttt gagtacttat caagaactaa tttatagcct 3180
              cttttaaaag gaaatttgga tgattttaat cctttaaatt ttcatatgtg gctgtttggt 3240
              atgcatttat aatccatatg attttttctt gaggattcaa ttgcagtata tttcatagaa 3300
              acatttccac taattcaaac cttgtggaat gatatctttg tttttcctgt ggcgtaatca 3360
              aacacccttt ggtcgagatt cttgttgtat ttaaccctac tattcaggaa gccatgaaat 3420
              tcctccttca cctttccctg catttttttg aatcttgcaa gtcaaagagt cccttgagga 3480
              caatgtattt agtggcatca atgtttttta ataagtagcc atcttaatgg catgcagctc 3540
              actggagacc ttcataaaat ggtcgcacta caaaggatgc ttgagccgta cggcatctgt 3600
              gaggtttgta ttgaaggttc actttgcaaa tgcacaatag tgtcgataat tcgtgattgc 3660
              agagtactta ttccaatgta aatcgtagtt tagcaactac aatatttcaa attattagtt 3720
              acagtggatc ctttaccatc cttggccata tgcattctgc agatcgcacg aactggcagg 3780
              gttgcgctga gccgtgagtc aggagtcgat tccaagtacc tccgtgggta ttctcttcct 3840
                                                  Page 35

              ctataacatg gcagttggcg agacttcacg ccaatcagtt tgcagattgc cattcttctg 3900
<removed-date>
              ataccggatc tcctaaactc cgaatgtgca atggtttttc gtttgtttgg agcatacagc 3960
              aaaaaggcac cggtcacatt taggttaact agatttacac catcttctaa agtttttttt 4020
              atagatacta cagagaaatg gaattgagat ttttaatccc atgtgaatac catgttttgg 4080
              gcttccttct tcgaagtagg aaacagaatt atatctgaaa ttatgcttcc aagaagattt 4140
              taactttctg aatcatagtt aaatttggcg cgagcactct aaattcattt tttttactcc 4200
<removed-apn>
              aagtagtttt aagagtgtat aatgaacgtt taggcttcct acttacgaat actgcaacta 4260
              gcagcgatca ttagtcttct gcaaagttat agatcaaatt taagaccact ccttcaaact 4320
              agttatttat gtgcccaatg tcgcattagc actcaaatgc aacttagatt cttccgtgcg 4380
              aacaaatcac agataacatg ccatttcttg gcggaaggag tcatgctagt ttttgttgct 4440
              gttgttgttg ttgcgacaac tcatgctaga ttgctagttg catctggcat gctagaaatt 4500
              cagaactgat gcattgtttg acagcgtcga ttcatttgtg agaatataaa cgatcattgt 4560
              cttgcatgga caaatgatgt ggattattat gttttgcatg cacatatgat gtggatagta 4620
              cataacgcta aaaggtgatg gaattaaaaa ggtgatatcc gcgtctcgac tgaattggac 4680
              ttggggcatt tgaaacgaaa gaaaacccaa cgaattggct caagggtatc caaaacgatc 4740
              gaaatacaat gttcctctta cgtcgataaa aatatactgt atcatccgat ggtaattaaa 4800
              aaacgatcga actaattatt ccatccgttc cagataaact gaagctttgc cctaatttaa 4860
              aaaaatgatc acgtctaggg aaaaagtgta cttcctccat ctaacaaaag acgtctcaac 4920
              gtttgtttta gtttggatgc atcttcaaac tcttgtaagt tttgatcacg tttattgaaa 4980
              aaattgccac agatacatct aaatttagat aaagtcaaga taatttttgt acaatgaagg 5040
              aagtaattta tttaaaaaaa tatacgacct ctgctcataa aagaatgtca caaatttatc 5100
              taaatt                                                              5106
              <210>      26
              <211>      1423
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      26
              ctgtggtttc attatcacca catagatgac aatatccaaa gtcatgtatc actgtatcac     60
                                                  Page 36

<removed-date>
              tttaccataa cacctcagca ttcaaatttt tgttggcagt tcttatattg gtcatagcta    120
              cattactagt aataaatgaa ctttctggcc tggacagtac tgacaatttt aaaagcagaa    180
              ctgaagcaac atacctctga gtaaaatgtt cccagacttc cattgcacat acgagatact    240
              gtattacagt atatctgttg ctgctgattc ttataatatg tggttgtatt gacttttgaa    300
              ttttgtgttc agggtgatgt gtatcctgtg gaaccttatg aaagcatgtc catgaaccaa    360
<removed-apn>
              gtacttgatg cccattgggg tgttcttgac gatgaagatg taagctaaaa gatttccatt    420
              tctgcaaaag aaacatcatt tgtttagtta aactaaatga cctataaact gtatctaaaa    480
              ctgttgtggc tgcagtgtgt tctcattttg tgtcttcatt atctttgcaa ccagtcagtg    540
              taaacagatg cctctatcgt aatagtgcca gcttctaagc taatgatgcc tttgtttggt    600
              acagtcaagc ggactttgct cacataccct ttccatcctt gtgaatgatt gtcctggtgt    660
              cctcaacatt ataacaggcg tctttgctcg caggggctac agtatacagg tttttttcaa    720
              aactttattg gttatgtagt gccaagctat ttttcaatga aaccatacta tttcccagag    780
              tcttgctgtt ggccgagctg aaaaggaagg catttcacgt attacaacag ttgttcccgg    840
              aactgatgaa tccattgaga agttagttca gcagctttac aagcttatcg atgtacttaa    900
              ggtaaatggc atgcaatttc ttagggcaat cattgacgat ataaaatatg ttgtgtaatg    960
              caaaacatgt gactgtccca ggttgaggac ttgactcact taccttttgc cgaaagagaa 1020
              ctgatgctta tcaaggtatc tgggaacacc gctgctcgga gggagatact agatatcggt 1080
              caaatcttcc gggcagaatg tctggatctt tctgatcaca cagttacgtt aatggtgagc 1140
              ttctggcttt ataaggtgtt gttttttatt gtcgatttta cacagtagat ttaccaactc 1200
              tcaagtgtgc tacggtgagt gttaaagcag cttgggtaca aacttaagat caagagaacc 1260
              atctcatgta taaacaaaaa gttagaggcc ttgctttcag aaactatttt tttgtatgat 1320
              ggtctttaga attcatatgt gcccagtgaa ttatcttgtg attttactgt tttgttttga 1380
              acagttgttc tggtagtatc aggatgaatt gcttacataa aaa                     1423
              <210>      27
              <211>      1493
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
                                                  Page 37

              <400>      27
<removed-date>
              taacacagct actgtgacga acctaagctg attttcatta tcatgcctgg tctgtttatc     60
              tctagacctg ccatggagat gaattttaat agtttgaagt gatcttttcc gttttatcct    120
              aaaaggtcat atgtcgtggg ctttgcagat ttcttttctt attgtatgtt cttatgtgat    180
              tgtaataaga gtactagtat aatttttctt tgatatttat tctatttcaa tccaataaaa   240
              ttgcaggttg aagatctatc taaggaacct caggttgaaa gagagctcat gcttataaaa   300
<removed-apn>
              ctcaatgcca aaccagatca acgtgctgcc gtaagatatg ctgttgatct gtatttccac   360
              gatatcaaaa cattgtttag tcattgaatt agtggtattg gtacttctat tttaaagggt   420
              tgtaacagga ctcttgcctc atggttgaca ggtcatgctt gtagctaatg tattcagagc    480
              gaaggttgtt gatatttccg agaattctct aaccctagag gtaaagactt gacttcaaac    540
              agtattataa ggactagggt gttccgtgtc tatgctggat taaattttct tgatgctgat    600
              atggcaaatg ctgcaggtca ctggagatcc tggaaagatt gttgcggcac aaaggagcct    660
              aagcaaattt gggatcgaag aaatttgtag aacgggaaaa gtatttttct ggaccatttg   720
              ctacgtacat gcatgggcac atttcttcat tgtctaattc ttctatctca atgttcttag   780
              attgctttga ttcgtgaaaa aattggaaca gctgcccgtt tctggggatt ttctactgct   840
              tcttacccag acctcataga agcatcaccc agaaaccctc ttcttacttc tccgaaaaag   900
              acggttaatg gcagttttga tcagccatcc agtgctgggg tatgtttcca tgaatataag    960
              accaactaca tatttattgc atattccttc ttgttctgct tcaactgttc taaaagcgag 1020
              gcaacgctta ggctataggt gccacagtct gcctagtacc ttttaaaacg ctgttactcc 1080
              ctccgatcca aaatacttgt ccaaaaatgg gagaatctac acactaaaac acgtctagat 1140
              acatgcattt ttgggcaagt attttggacc ggatagagta tttgtagttt taaatacttg 1200
              gtaatctaca ccacgccgaa aagatgcccc ttttacatga atgacacaat caataatttg 1260
              atgtgcaata acagagaaga tctcacgaac tgcgtatctt taatagctat agtgtaaaca 1320
              aaggaaactg aacttctctg tcaccagtaa acatcccagt gcagccgtag cactgtaagt 1380
              gaatttatag gtgaaggtaa tttgtatacc tggccttagc aaagcaaaaa aaaaattgct 1440
              catacagtga aactggggag atacctgcgt gctgacaaaa ctaaaaacca cac          1493
                                                  Page 38

              <210>      28
<removed-date>
              <211>      260
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      28
              tcccggatca agaccgagtc tctgattgtg ccgcatgaac gcatccatga gagaccgttc    60
              gtcttggcgc ctcttgttga cctcctgggt tcgtcggctg aggacagtat ggagaaaaga   120
<removed-apn>
              tggcactctc tctcgaagtg cagtggtggg ttctttgatt tgtggaacaa gcttggcggt   180
              gaatctattg ttggaacaga gggtattaaa agggtcatgt ctgttggaaa tgcactgttg   240
              gattggcgtg agaggaccct                                               260
              <210>      29
              <211>      280
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      29
              atccatcaac tatgcagaat gagcagaatt tacagtatga tgatgtctgc aaagaagttg    60
              cttctgagtt atacgctcgg ctgagagcag cagagctgtc tggaattcct ttgtggagga   120
              ttgttcttga ccctggcatt gggttttcca agaaatccac acagaatatt gaagtaatcg   180
              cgggcttgga atccattaga gaagagatgg gtaaaatgag tctaggtgct tcacatgtgc   240
              caatattact tggaccctcc aggaaaagtt tcttagggca                         280
              <210>      30
              <211>      274
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      30
              ttggatctcc ggcatcctct caactcctca agcaaaccac cgggccacgc taacccgttc    60
              agggtccgct cctacacgca atgcgcgctc accaacgatt ccaccgacaa cgaaatcgtg   120
              attgccctgg gcagcaacgt gggagacagg gtcagcacgt tcgacagggc gctgcggctg   180
              atgaggagct cgggcatcga gatcaccagg cacgcctgcc tgtacgagac cgccccagcc   240
              tacgtgaccg accagccgcg gttcctcaac tccg                               274
                                                  Page 39

<removed-date>
              <210>      31
              <211>      200
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      31
              ctccaggaaa agtttcttag ggcagatatg caatcgcgct gatccagctg agagagatgc    60
              tgctactgct tctgctgtta cagttgggat attgaatggt gctaatatag taagggtcca   120
<removed-apn>
              taatgttaga tacagtgtgg atgctgcaaa ggtctctgat gcatcactca agtacagaag   180
              aaaataatag aaagtataca                                               200
              <210>      32
              <211>      7757
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      32
              ggttagcgtg gggcggtggt ttgcttgagg agttgagagg atgccggaga tccaatgctg    60
              gtatgttcag agggggtaag tttcaagaag tggaagctgc catttctcag gccaggttgc   120
              tactgtcaga aggtgctgac ataattgata ttggtgctca gtccaccagg ccctttgcaa   180
              ggaggctatc cgcagaagaa gagcttgaga ggctggtccc tgttctggat gctatcacga   240
              aactccccga gatggaaggg aagttgcttt cagttgacac attctacgcg caagtcgctg   300
              ctgaagctgt gaaaagggga gccaccatga tcaatgatgt atctggtggg cagcttgacc   360
              cagatattct tcaagttgtt gctgaactgg gagttccgta tgttaccatg cacatgagag   420
              gggatccatc aactatgcag aatgaacaga atctacagta tgatgatatc tgcaaagaag   480
              ttgcttctga gttatacgct cggttgagag cagcagagtt gtctggaatt cctttgtgga   540
              ggattgttct tgatcctggc attgggtttt ccaagaaatc cacacagaat attgaagtaa   600
              tcacgggctt ggactccatt agagaagaga tgggtaaaat gagtctaggt gcttcacatg   660
              tgccaatatt acttggaccc tccaggaaaa gtttcttagg gcaaatatgc aatcgcgctg   720
              atccagccga gagagatgcc gctactgctt ctgctgttac agttgcgatc ttaaatggtg   780
              ctaatatagt aagggtccat aatgttagat acagtgtgga tgctgcaaag gtctctgatg   840
              catcactcaa gtacagaaga aaataataga aagtatacag ccaggataga agccatacca   900
                                                  Page 40

<removed-date>
              gttgccagtt ttgtgcaagg gaatgctgat gtggagctca aaccatacgg ggtgtatcat   960
              cacttaaagc aataaaagca tgtgtgaata actattacat tgaacaagag atatacagtt 1020
              ttttcgtgcg cctcctcccc cgtagaatct tcagacaagc aaaggtaaca cagaccaagg 1080
              cctctagggt tggtatatga tgtaaccagt tttgcgaggg tttaataatt atctaatagc 1140
              gagacctaag agtaagacct ttgtaatatg ctttgcttgg aattgtctac ttgagagcat 1200
<removed-apn>
              catttggtgc tgcagagtta atttccatct caggcagttt tcttagggtt acaaaatttt 1260
              atctgactcc ttatgtgtgt tctgaactta ttgtccccga tgaggaaact catgcattgc 1320
              aagtgccgta tgacattact tggcctcaag gcttggtcta tgatctaacc agttttctga 1380
              ggggtttatt gcctaactgt gagtacttta ttatgctgtc tatgtgggag catcatttct 1440
              tcttgctgag tcaagttcca gctctcttgc agttttttga ggttttcatg aaacttctcc 1500
              tcgtgactcc ttatttgtgt tttgatcttg ctgtacccaa tgaggaaact catgcattgc 1560
              aagtgccata tgacattact aggcctcaag gcttggtcta tgatctaacc agttttctga 1620
              gggttttatt atcaaattgt gagacctttg taatgcactt tgcttcgatc gtctacttga 1680
              gagaatcatt tgttgctgca gagttaattt ccatctcttg tgcatattta gattttaatc 1740
              ttcaataact tctagcgtgt tttaaaaaga acatagcaaa ggcatccgac agaagtttga 1800
              attggtttgt gacccaatga ggaaactcat gcattgcaag tgccgcatga cattactagg 1860
              tctcaaggct tggtctatga tctaaccagt tgtctgaggg ttttattttc taattacgac 1920
              ctttgtaatg tactttttta tgctgtctat gtgggagcat catttgttct tgtggagtaa 1980
              atttccagct ctcatgcagt ttttttgagg ttttttcatg aaacttctcc ttgtgagtcc 2040
              ttatttctgt tttcatcttg ctgtacccaa tgaagaaact catgcattgc aagtgccgta 2100
              tgacattact aggcctcaag gcttggtcta tgatctaacc agttttctga gggttttatt 2160
              gtcaaattgt gagacctttg taatgtactt ttcttcgaat gtctacttga gagaatcatt 2220
              tgttgctgca gagttaattt ccacctcttg tgcatatttc gattttaatt ttcaattaac 2280
              ttctagcgtg ttttaaaagg aatatagcaa aggcatccaa cagaagttcg gattggtttg 2340
              tgacccaatg aggaaactaa tgcattgcaa gtgccatatg acattactag gcgtcaaggc 2400
              ttggtttatg atctaaacag aattctgagg gtttgtattg tctagatgca agaccttttt 2460
                                                  Page 41

              actgcacgct gcatgtaatt ttctacttgt gagcttaatt tattcttaca caagatttga 2520
<removed-date>
              gttttaaatc tgaactgttt ttttggttcg ttttaaactt gaactttggt atatttttcc 2580
              gcatgcatgt gctctttgga gccaaattgc atccccgtgg cttcttgtgc atttatatcc 2640
              ctcctttgtt cactgatgag tgatgagacc ttaagaactg caggtgctgg atgattatgc 2700
              tttcatcaag aatggccatg tcaatgatat caccacaggt ttgttgtggt gttatctgtt 2760
              ttttatacta ttgaacattt gtttgcattt ttacatgttt tttgtataat ttgaagctat 2820
<removed-apn>
              tttagcttgc ttttgacctt gttctaccca atgatgaaat tcatgcattg caagtgccgt 2880
              atgacatgct tggcctcaag gcttagtctt tgattcaacc agatttgtga gggttttata 2940
              ttgtctaaat gcatgacctt tttaatttgc tcttatttga attgtctact taagatcatc 3000
              atttgttcct acattatttg tttctgcatt tcatacagat ttggatttta aatctgagct 3060
              gctttggcca ttttaacaaa tatccatagg tcgctttgca tttttcctgc tatgtttact 3120
              gatgaaatct taagaattgc aagtgcccgg tgattacagt gttcatggca atgatgttaa 3180
              cgcaggattc tgtggtcttg tcttgtttat actattcaaa atttatgttg tatgaagtga 3240
              agctattctg gctcgccttt gatcaatctt caccttgtaa ctccttaatt ttcttgatga 3300
              tgttctaccc aatgagggtc ttctccttgt aactccttaa ttttcttgat gatgttctac 3360
              ccaatgagga aacccatatg agcgaggcct caactcctca accctcagta tttgatttaa 3420
              ccaggtttcc tacggtttat attgtctaaa cgcagaacat ttttgatgtg ccctcatccg 3480
              gatactctat agattgccat ttgttcctgc agatttgctg tctacctcat aatacatatt 3540
              tgaattttaa atctgacccg ttttgtactg ccttcactcc tgaaaccttt taataactgc 3600
              aagtgtgaga tgattacgca ttggctcact tgttgttgcc accctgttct tgacactcac 3660
              ctggaaaccc gaaggttttg ttttccttcc ctgaagtgca gtaatgcccg tcatcaagaa 3720
              agccaaacat gaaaagtctg aatggaattt gaagaccagc atgcagggtt ctcatgatac 3780
              cagcggtaac tttcttccct ttctctattg tcctatcgta ttatttatgc tgttgttttt 3840
              gttcttttta atatttcttg aatcctttgt tctgcagagt atcaacaaaa ttagccaagt 3900
              aatatcaaac gagctacttt ttttgttctt gggcactcat gtactaaggt ctcactcaag 3960
              tttgcttctc gggaaaatgt acaagagtgc atcaggctaa cgggagaatt tactctgttt 4020
              ccaaacggga caagctagag gtctatcgat cagtttatcc atactctcat gttgtatgca 4080
                                                  Page 42

<removed-date>
              taatttatct gtttgttcat tgctaatcct tatcttcata tctctataac tgttccatgc 4140
              tctctttgct gcaagagtca atttgtaaac atgaattggg agattaaaaa gatagtttca 4200
              tgcaattaat attgtagcct ctgtgtgcac cattcagcaa tttcttttat tgaatcttga 4260
              aattagtgtt gccttagtta tttatttgca ttctttccga ttctaagtaa agtttacttt 4320
              attttagtta atggattatc tctgtcctac tatatttcct ttccatgttt caagttagca 4380
<removed-apn>
              gattgcagtc ttgattaata cattttactg cttcgagttt gcttggatta agtgatgctg 4440
              agtgtcgtgc ggcaaaaaac tccaaatcga aatgagatct tttatgcact attttcagat 4500
              attgtctgga taaaatgagc ttcagcacct gtttttgtga accacataca gtatctatca 4560
              gtgatgttct cgaaacattc tgaaatgaac ttgatctatc aacagctgag agggttttgg 4620
              tattggactt ttcctgtcag attttaggaa tatataggat tgaatctgaa aggcaagtgt 4680
              tttttagaac aaaatttgtt gatgattagt tataggtgct tagtcgcacc acccattatt 4740
              tgttttgcag gccaaagatt ttcaattgct caaatcaagg aactgtgttg aaattcttca 4800
              atctatgtca aaagaccaga ttcatgatat tgttgtgttt tcttcattgt acagactgat 4860
              ggcctttcaa accgtataga attttttact aacattatct cttatgcaaa gtcaaataca 4920
              tgtcattcca tgtccctgtc cccattcaag atggtaacgt ccggccagat tcaaggattc 4980
              agaaattttc atacttatac atatttcgtt gtttcccgtg attttatatt catgtatatt 5040
              cctttgcctt ttccagactt aaagatgtgt tggtagctta gatgacgatt ttgattccag 5100
              tttatctcaa attgggaaag aaataagcat ggttggcatc attactgaac tggattacgg 5160
              atgtagcgct gacattgcac attgtaaaga tatattatca cgctttgagc ctcagtgatt 5220
              ttgtattatc agatcatatg gcatatcgag tcgcggtctc ctcacattgc acttcgtgag 5280
              ggtaaggctt gccactaaca tcttccccag accccgcaca gtgcgggagc tctcagcact 5340
              gggtacgtcc tttagatcat atggcatatg ctccttttta ctgaagtggg agaagtgcag 5400
              ttttcaggta agatgtgttg ctgaattcac tgttgttata ttgcagtaat aaatatatga 5460
              agatacatat ttttctgctg atttagataa cggtggcact gtcataacca tgcttcctcg 5520
              cgcactttct aggacatata cacagtttta atgtgcgaat cctagcatct cttttcacta 5580
              aaatattctt ggtttcgagt attgtgtact agaaagcata gtcccaattt agtacaggtt 5640
                                                  Page 43

              tctaacttag tcccatggat tcagtactgt ctataccatg ctgatgttac cacatagttc 5700
<removed-date>
              ccagtttacc ataggaggta acctaacttg gtgttcttat ttttgtgtgc agaaaatgca 5760
              tgttgcagat tagattacag attagaaagt gccgccctct tttaggccag cggcgattgc 5820
              aaaaatcttt ctctaagaaa tctttcttaa attgttatac tctctaaaac tggagcaggt 5880
              ctctttctta gaccagtgca gtcacttagt agtcacttac acaacgacca cttgaaatat 5940
              ctctcctttt cgtcttcaag atcatgattt attgtatgat tattttttat tgttggtaaa 6000
<removed-apn>
              ctacattcat ttcatggtaa catatgtcgg tgttgttgca ggtcctgtgt tttttacccg 6060
              ccggtgtttc agtcttcgtt atttcacaga tatgcttatt cttacatgga tgttggtgca 6120
              tcatcttgga agaggtaaag attggaaagt atttctgctg aattttattc tcgaaatggt 6180
              gaatatatac tatatacatg taccactaac tcaaaggatc acacatgaac tttataattt 6240
              cattggcagt ttcaaggaag taacccgcat ttgctcattg gcagtttcaa gaaaagtaac 6300
              ccccatctgc attgggatct tccgatctaa agcttctttc aagtgtatgc ttattctgaa 6360
              cactttactt ccttgaatcc tcttcaaagg ttttatgcaa agtgcagtta gcttaggccg 6420
              cacaaggact agatgtacct gtagatgtgg ttttattttt ggaagttcat atttagtttt 6480
              tatttgctca gctgagagaa atggcatgtt gacagaagaa actaagcagc ctcatgtttt 6540
              gtataaatag taccagaata tcttttgcaa tgtaaaacag caggtcaccg aaccattgtg 6600
              cattgtgcta aaagcacata tattactcag tttacgttgt ataatagttg caagctggca 6660
              agctattgct cattgaccaa aacgtcatgt attcacaaca gtgtctgatc agactcacga 6720
              agaacacaat tctgtcgaaa acacctccaa catcaacata tagaattctt atctgagcta 6780
              aaacgcttct tgcttataat ttaacaatga cgcaacggga aacttcctag tatcgttaac 6840
              agcaacatcc atgctctact cacctcctcc tcacttatct cttttctctt gtgtatgtgc 6900
              ctgtcgccgc ctcttcaatt tgctcccctc agctcttgta ctatccacta ccatgcccct 6960
              gccatctgtc ctcaccagtc tgtcctctca ctaccaaagt agaaaagaac acaaaggatg 7020
              tgtgtattta aatgaaatca gttggtgaga ttgttagtct atggaattta gtagtaatca 7080
              agcggattca ctaaataaga gaaatataca catagtgagt actatttgtc tggcagtgct 7140
              cttccacgaa atccaacaca caaattttct ctgctggctt catgcctaga aagctggtag 7200
              aatatgaagc aaaaaaagag tgatttaata tgttagtcaa aatggaaatg tactggtaaa 7260
                                                  Page 44

<removed-date>
              atatagatta caaacctcgc ctagtgacta atagttgatg ttaggtgatc ttttcttttt 7320
              tttggtagtg cacgtggaaa aggaactgaa aataaaacat atgagataat tacctacaag 7380
              atgcaggtgt aatccaacct gatccttgtg attagcacaa ttccctgaaa atgtgaaatt 7440
              ttataggatc aggcataata tcactcagtg aggcttaaat atgtagttgg atcgcacaca 7500
              catacatgtg caacataatg cctcagcgtg gagcataaaa ggagaattgg ccaacctcac 7560
<removed-apn>
              gaatgggctt atgggcatta ctaaatgaat atctccggat atcagctgca taaagccttt 7620
              atctactgaa ccagtgacaa ttctgcaata cttgccctat taggtaacca ctaacatcat 7680
              attacccata tcagcgagtt gtataatcca agtttgtcgt ttacaaataa aaatcatcag 7740
              aatagtaaga tagcatc                                                  7757
              <210>      33
              <211>      647
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      33
              cgccacgtcc gtggccgcgc ccgcggcgcc ggccggcgcg gaggaggtcg tgctgcagcc     60
              catccgggag atctccggcg ccgtgcagct gcccggctcc aagtcgctct ccaaccggat    120
              ccttctcctc tccgccttgt ccgaggtgag aaaacaagca gacaaagccc ctctccctac    180
              ttctcccctt tgtgtgaatt gggtgccgag atgggatttt aggagggtta ggtgcatctt   240
              atcatgctag gtgctcgtga gatcataaga tttttttctt tttacttaaa acgatctagc   300
              cataggattt agttcaaggt tactcttctt agtagccaat tcctatgttc gtttatcgaa    360
              tcgttagaat tatgtagtta gttggatcaa tattatatga ggccttggat gagcaaaagt    420
              cagttaatgg taattagaat tatgtaggac ctggtgatcc tcttatgtca gtctgatggc   480
              ttcctcatga aagtattacg ctgcaacgct gtcatggaca cctagtattc atatacctgc   540
              attcaagatg cacgactttc aaatcttgtt atcgctaaag gttttcacaa gctataagat   600
              cctaaatcta ggatcccctc cagagtttat tcactttcca ctcatcg                 647
              <210>      34
              <211>      305
              <212>      DNA
                                                  Page 45

              <213>      Lolium rigidum
<removed-date>
              <400>      34
              aacaatcatt agtaatataa aaataaaatc agtttgaaca atccaacaag gcagtggcca    60
              attcccatga ataagagcat tttaggtcgc gccctccaaa gggctcccca aaggactttg   120
              gaggcgccag actaaaacat gcgcctaacc acggccgcag aggtgatttg tgtacgatgc   180
              aacccccaaa aaaactgcct gatactcata ggaagattct gctccttgtc agttggacaa   240
<removed-apn>
              accataatct attttacttt cccttttgtt ccctccacac attccatttc tcccgcctta   300
              cattt                                                               305
              <210>      35
              <211>      4472
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      35
              tcctctccgc cttgtccgag gtgaccaaac aacccgaaac gcttccccct cctccccttc    60
              ctttggggtg aattgggtgt actaaagatg ggatttttgg aggtttaggg gcgcacttgt   120
              atcttgtcat gctaggtgct ggccagatca taagatattc tttcattctt attaagacga   180
              tctagccata agacatatac ttaagaaggt agtctgttca gtaggcaatt cataagtctg   240
              ttcacccaat tattgcatac atactgtagc ttgtatttga atgaagatga tctcaccata   300
              ggatactcta ctccattcca aatagattca agttgtatgt gtcctaatta aaactatttc   360
              tggtttcaca gaaaagtgtg tcactttaat ttcgttagtt tcatcataaa atatattttt   420
              tgtactgtac tatagagatt tgatgttgta tatattatca tttttctcgt ctacaaactg   480
              ggtcaaacgt agacaaggtt gacacaggac aaacataaga cttcgattaa tttggaaccg   540
              agggagtggt atgtttacca gacaaatcct atgttcgttt attgaatcat tagaattatg   600
              tactagctat tagttggatc aagatgatac ataaggttaa aaggtattag tataatcagg   660
              tgatccttag gctggtcttt tttttttctt ctgatggctt ctttatgaaa gatttgtatt   720
              gcaatggtgt cgtggacact tgataagaaa ctgaaactgg tttactttgc tggcatctct   780
              agttgatcgt tagctgacta ttttgctctt cagggaacaa cggtggtgga taacctgttg   840
              aacagtgagg atgtccacta catgctcgag gccctggacg cgctcgggct ctccgtggaa   900
                                                  Page 46

<removed-date>
              gcagacaaag ttgcaaaaag agctctagtc gtcggctgtg gcggcaggtt cccgattgag   960
              aaggatgcca aggaggaagt aaagctcttc ttgggcaacg ctggaactgc gatgcggcca 1020
              ttgacggcgg ctgtagtagc tgctggtgga aatgcaacgt atgtttcttt tctttaatcc 1080
              ttattatggg aataagtatg agttccgtgg ttatgctttg agactgatgg tttatgtctc 1140
              tcttctgaac ttcagttatg ttcttgatgg agtaccaaga atgagggagc gacctatcgg 1200
<removed-apn>
              tgacttagtt gtcggtttga aacaactagg tgcgaatgtt gattgtttcc tcggcaccga 1260
              ctgcccacct gttcggatca acggcattgg agggctacct ggtggcaagg ttagcctcat 1320
              caacttccct tttatgcgct tttgtacaca catttcagtt ctctgaaaaa aacaagatta 1380
              tgcgaccttt aaaatagcca taaccattag gccctatttc gtgtaaaaca gatatgctga 1440
              ttgtgttgtg gtcttagatc acacggccta tcataaatta gcacttaaca ttgaattgca 1500
              ttccacaggt taagctatct ggttccatca gcagccagta cttgagttcc ttgctgatgg 1560
              ctgctccttt ggctcttggg gatgttgaga ttgaaatcat tgataaacta atctctgttc 1620
              cttatgttga aatgacattg agattgatgg agcgttttgg cgtgacggca gagcattctg 1680
              atagctggga cagattctac attaaaggag gacagaagta caagtaagtt ttgaattgtt 1740
              ctgcttattc taaacatttg tccaaacatt tgacttctgg ataaactagg gaattgaaca 1800
              ttggaaagaa ctattgactg ctcaacttac tgttattagc taagtcaagc tttactagga 1860
              aatgagtaac tctgctactt acaatgcact ggctgcacag ctatgttttc tggtgcataa 1920
              actattgtct gcccaaataa ctttaatcat ctggttagga ccaaacttgt agtagttatg 1980
              aactgtacaa ggaaatcagt gtgacaaatc tccgctactt acaatgacat tggacggtta 2040
              tattttcttg tgcataaact tggtcacatc agaagtgcca tccatctaaa aaagggtgag 2100
              aattgagaac atatgcagct taatgacagc tgtttggcaa taagcatttc ttttgcggat 2160
              gattcttgat ttgcttcttt tagccttttt tattgttact agttgaatgt ccgtgcttcg 2220
              ccacggctcc ttagtgtata tttaatggca ttcgtgttat acggataaag atactatgta 2280
              tgtaaatatt gaaagtactt tttttggacc cccttccggc atgttctatt gtcttcatcg 2340
              tcgaagccaa atgttacatt gggatatctg ctgccaaatg ttgcagcagg atatgcatcc 2400
              tgattttact gagcatactt cactgatgta attgaaactg tcagttcaaa cttcataaaa 2460
                                                  Page 47

              gttgcagtaa tcgcttccta aacaagccct cccttgctct ggaattgaca attgacaggt 2520
<removed-date>
              cccctggaaa tgcctatgtc gaaggtgatg cctcaagtgc gagctatttc ttggctggcg 2580
              ctgcaatcac tggaggaact gtgactgtcc aaggttgcgg caccaccagt ttgcaggtac 2640
              aaccagtttt aaccatttgg ttaagcatac ttgcggtata taacataatc aaagatatac 2700
              tgctgtcaac caaactgatt taagtggaca ttcatttatg aatctatata actacagtac 2760
              tgtaagtcgg tttcttgtgc tatctccctg acgatgatta atattgcagg gtgatgtgaa 2820
<removed-apn>
              atttgctgag gtactagaaa tgatgggagc gaaagttaca tggaccgaca ctagtgtaac 2880
              tgttactggt ccaccacgtc agccctttgg aaggaaacac ctaaaagctg ttgatgtcaa 2940
              catgaacaaa atgcctgatg ttgccatgac tcttgccgtt gttgcccttt ttgccgatgg 3000
              tccaactgct atcagagatg gtaaaccctc ttatgtgttg ctgttgattt cttttggatg 3060
              gattccgcta cagcacatga tttgttcctg acacttgtcc attctcctct gtagttgcct 3120
              cttggagagt gaaggaaacc gagagaatgg tggcaatccg gacggaacta acaaaggtag 3180
              cacacctatc tccacttctt atatttcagc tcactgttgc actccccagt gcttagtctc 3240
              acctgttgtg tgcctctgtg ctatagctgg gagcaacggt agaggaaggc ccagactact 3300
              gcattatcac accaccagag aagctgaacg tcacggcaat cgacacctac gatgaccacc 3360
              ggatggcgat ggccttctcc ctcgccgcct gcgctgaggt gcctgtcacg atcagggacc 3420
              ctgggtgcac ccgcaagacc ttccccaact actttgacgt gctaagcacc ttcgtgaaga 3480
              actagctcga tgaaaatcta cagtgtatcg catttgtact tttgtagcct gtccatggtc 3540
              cgaggaaatt tttactgttt tggtcttctt gcgaaatgat ttatgagtgt aatactagtt 3600
              ttgtagcatg gcgtggggct tttgaggtaa aatgagttgt atgcatactg agttcgtttt 3660
              gaataagaag caagttagga gtaccataga ccatactgtg acctacatgt tcttccgttt 3720
              ccagaggtat tatgttggct gctggtactc aagtgtgttc gaaaactact cgacagccat 3780
              ggaatttggg agatgccatt tgggtatgtg gatgcttgag gaagatcatc aaagcaaaca 3840
              agaacaccag tcgatggtaa aacagtgcag cttgcaccaa gaatgtttgc ctatcagagt 3900
              aaacaaacca gactcagcag atatgaaaaa aactcagcac tgtgacactc gtgctaaaac 3960
              taatttcatt taggccgtgg agtaggccat tgcatactta cgtattagag catctctagt 4020
              cgagtcctag agcatctcta gtcgagtccc cacaaacggc gccggatcga gcgcttgggg 4080
                                                  Page 48

<removed-date>
              gacgagtttt gttcgtgccg tgtttggggt acatcgctcc ctagtcgcgt cccccaaacg 4140
              ccgtccccaa tgaggaattc aaaatagttt gtgcatttaa aaaagatggt gttcgtcgaa 4200
              gtcgtcgcga tcaaagtact tggcgcgcga tcatattaca ggccgacttg cacaaacata 4260
              gatcctccag aacggtccac ttgggacagt gtgccctacg ccttcttctt cttttcctcc 4320
              ggaccgggtc ctggctcgta cgtcggggag tagaacatag cgttggggtt gaagccgtca 4380
<removed-apn>
              cgaggcagcg catcctcgta ccgcggcaac aagtttggtg tcacgcaccc gggagtggcg 4440
              gaggggccgt cgttgtagaa cccggatgtc ga                                 4472
              <210>      36
              <211>      1880
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      36
              tacgtcgcat ttccaccagc aaatttcaca tcaccctgca ttaagatgca caactttcaa     60
              attttgttat cgctaaaggt tttcacgagc tataagatcc taaatctagg atcccctcca    120
              tggtttattc ggtttccact tgttagactg aacataactg aatactcatt ggaatgttat    180
              agtgcagcat accttatttt cattaagata cgaaattggc actgctttac ttcgctgcca    240
              tctcttgttg atcattaact gacttttgct catcagggaa caacggtcgt ggataacctg    300
              ttgaacagtg aggatgtcca ctacatgctc gaggccctgg acgccctcgg gctctctgtg    360
              gaagcagaca aagttgcaaa aagagctgta gtcgttggct gtggcggcag gttcccgatt    420
              gaaaaggatg ccaaggagga agtcaagctc ttcttgggca acgctggaac tgcaatgcgg    480
              tcattgacgg ctgctgtagt agctgctggt ggaaatgcga cgtatgtttc tttttttatc    540
              cttatgggaa taagtatgag ttccgtgggt atgctttgag actgactgat ggtttatgtc    600
              tctcttctga acttcagtta tgttcttgat ggagtaccaa gaatgaggga gcgacctatc    660
              ggtgacttag ttgtcggttt gaaacagcta ggtgcgaatg ttgattgttt ccttggcact    720
              gactgcccac ctgttcggat caacggcatt ggagggctac ctggtggcaa ggttagcctc    780
              atgaacttcc acgttatgcc cttttgtaca cacatttcag ttctataaaa aaaaaaacaa    840
              tgcgaccata caataactcc aaaattgcgc atcaaaaaaa aataactcca aaattgccat    900
                                                    Page 49

              aaccaatagg gcctgtttcg tgtaaaacag atatgctgat tgtgttgtgg tcttagatca    960
<removed-date>
              caaggtctat cataaattag cacttaacat tgaattgcat tccacaggtt aagctgtctg 1020
              gttccatcag cagccaatac ttgagttcct tgctgatggc tgctcctttg gctcttgggg 1080
              atgtcgagat tgaaatcatt gataaactaa tctctgttcc ttacgttgaa atgacattga 1140
              gattgatgga gcgttttggc gtgacagcag agcattctga tagctgggac agattctaca 1200
              ttaaaggagg acagaagtac aagtaagttt tgaattgttc tgcttattct aaacatttgt 1260
<removed-apn>
              ccaaacattt gacttctgga taaactaggg aattgagcat tggaaagaac tattgactgc 1320
              tcaactttat tcatctggaa atgaccatac tgttattagt taagtcaagc tttactatga 1380
              aatcagtgac tctgctactt acaatgcact ggctgcacaa ctatgttttc tggtgcataa 1440
              actatagtct gcccaaataa ctttattcat ctggctagga ccaacttgta gtagctatga 1500
              actgtacaag gaaatcagtg tggcaaaact ctgctactta caatgacatt gcacggttat 1560
              attttcttgt gcataaactt ggtcacatca gaagtgccat ccatctaaaa aagagtgaaa 1620
              attgagaaca tatgcagctt aatgacagct gtttggcaat aagcattttt tttgcagacg 1680
              attcttgctt tgcttctttt agcctttttt ttattgttat gctctgctgc caaatgttgc 1740
              accaggatat gcatcctgat tttactgagc atacttcacc gatgtaattg aaactgtcag 1800
              ttcgaacttc ataaaagttg cagtaattgc ttcctaaaca agccctccct tgctctggaa 1860
              ttaacaattg acaggtcccc                                               1880
              <210>      37
              <211>      692
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      37
              tgcgagctat ttcttggctg gtgctgcaat cactggagga actgtgactg tccaaggttg     60
              cggcaccacc agtttgcagg tagaactcta ctataagtat ttaccatttg gttaagcata    120
              cttgcagtat ataacataat tgaagataca gtgctgtcaa ccaaacacgc tttaagtgga    180
              catccattta tgaatctata taactacagt actgtgagtc ggttttcttg tgctatctac   240
              cttacgatgc ttaatattgc agggtgatgt gaaatttgct gaggtactag aaatgatggg   300
              agcgaaggtt acatggaccg acactagtgt aactgttact ggtccaccgc gtcagccctt    360
                                                  Page 50

<removed-date>
              tggaaggaaa cacctaaaag ctgttgatgt caacatgaac aaaatgcctg atgttgccat   420
              gactctagcc gttgttgccc tttttgccga tggtccaact gctatcagag atggtaaacc   480
              ctcttacgtg ttgctgttaa tttcttttgg atagattcag ctacagcgca tgatttgttc   540
              ctgacacttg tccattctcc tctgcagttg cctcctggag agtgaaggaa accgagagaa   600
              tggtggcaat ctgcacggaa ctaacaaagg tagcacacct gtctccactt cttattttca   660
<removed-apn>
              gctcactgtt gcaccccccc cccccccccc cc                                 692
              <210>      38
              <211>      260
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      38
              gtccgtgcca gggccggggg aagggtgtgg ggcgtcagga aggccgcccg cggcacggcc    60
              gggttcaagg tgctggccct cggcccggag accaccgggg tcgtgcagag gatgaaccag   120
              ctgctcgaca tggacaccac gcccttcacc gacaagatca tcgcagagta catctggtac   180
              gtacgtcctc ccaatgttgc attcctcggt tgcgccggag cgggctttgt tcgcacccat   240
              tggctcgccc cagataggcc                                               260
              <210>      39
              <211>      1061
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      39
              atctcatttc tacgcttgat taattggtgc taagtatgtt gaagtgtaac ctaactaatc    60
              tcgactttat gtgtgtgtag ggtccttact actgcagtat tggtgctgag aagtcctttg   120
              ggcgtgacat cgttgactcc cactacaagg cctgcctcta tgcaggcatc aacatcagtg   180
              gcatcaatgg cgaggtcatg cccggacagg tgaatactaa ctacttcaca ttatcatctt   240
              ctgtacctga aaatttatta ctgacttttc taaccatgta aaattatgat tggttttcag   300
              tgggagttcc aagttggccc aagtgttggc atttctgctg gtgaccaagt ctgggttgct   360
              cgctacattc ttgaggtata atactcttca accaggaaga taatctgaaa tagccatatg   420
                                                    Page 51

              atcttgttca gacagtatcc ttgcatttag tattcagtta atattattgc ggttattaag    480
<removed-date>
              tgagaccatc cctttcttca gaggatcact gagatcgccg gagttgtcgt cacattcgac    540
              cccaagccca tcccaggtga ctggaacggt gctggtgctc acacaaacta caggtaagac    600
              tatcaagatg aacacacagt tcgaaacacc tcgttcatct gaactttgtt actgatcgtg    660
              aattttgcat tcagcactga gtcgatgagg aaggatggtg ggttcgaggt cattgtggcc   720
              gcagttgaga agctcaagct gaggcataag gagcacattg ccgcctacgg cgagggcaac   780
<removed-apn>
              gagcgtcgtc tcactggcaa gcacgagacc gctgacatcc acaccttcag ctgggtacgt   840
              gcattgctcc gaatcacctg aatccttgta tttattacag gagtggttct gagaaactgt    900
              ttttgctctg cagggtgttg ccaaccgtgg cgcgtccatc cgtgttggcc gcgagacgga    960
              gcagaaggca agggctactt cgaggaccgc cggccggcgt ccaacatgga cccctacgtc 1020
              gtgaccgcca tgatcgccga caccaccctc ctgtggaagc c                       1061
              <210>      40
              <211>      3587
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      40
              taacaattct gcctttctct cttcacattc tgcagggttg gagggtctgg aatcgacatc     60
              agaagcaaat caagggtacg cagcccacta tcttcatgga attgacatta gatttgtttt    120
              ttgaaaggat tttttctaga agtttagggg atgagcagtt ggttttgtac gcagagtact    180
              ccttccttac ttccttcttg gctcctgaca agaaaattta atgctcgcat ttcagacgat    240
              atcgaaaccg gtggaggacc cttccgagct accgaagtgg aactacgatg gatcgagcac    300
              agggcaagct ccgggagaag acagtgaagt catcctatag taagggggaa attacagtat    360
              atgtgtttct tcaagcttgc atataagaag tatcctagat ttatacatgt gttactctat    420
              ttatgttttt tcctatcctg tttcagccca caggctatat tcaaggaccc attccgagga   480
              ggcaacaaca tcatagtacc gtccattttc ccacttgcat tattcatttc tgattttgct   540
              tttatgcagc tatactgaaa gggtcaatag tggacacttt tacctgtttg ttacatgtgc   600
              aaagtgccat gtgagttaaa atgatttttt ttgcctttca ggttatgtgt gacacgtaca   660
              caccacaagg ggaacccatc cctaccaaca aacgcgccag ggctgcacaa attttcagtg    720
                                                  Page 52

<removed-date>
              acccaaaggt ttcttcgcaa gtgccatggt aattatgcgt tgagcacctg tatgccgtgc   780
              aaaggcctgc tgttctttta cctcccttta ttcgcctaca gactgtagag ttgaaaaatc   840
              ttcttttcta ggtttggaat cgaacaggag tacactttga tgcagagaga cgtgaactgg   900
              cctcttggct ggcctgttgg agggtaccct ggcccccagg tactgtacca agaagcttca   960
              tttactatac aaaaaataaa tcttaggctg cctgaaatac actttttagt taaacactat 1020
<removed-apn>
              tgagtagtaa tattgtgctg aaatattgca gggtccatac tactgcgccg tgggatcaga 1080
              caagtcattt ggccgtgaca tatcggatgc tcactacaag gcatgccttt acgctggaat 1140
              tgaaatcagt ggaacaaacg gggaggtcat gcctggtcag gtgagccttt atatttatat 1200
              gtgcgcatgt attcttattt tgtgtgaacc agagatgttt tttacatttt ctttctaatg 1260
              aagtgtttaa taagtggaat ttcacaaacc ttatccatgc agtgggagta ccaggttgga 1320
              cctagtgtgg gtattgatgc tggagatcac atatgggctt caagatatct tctcgaggta 1380
              cttcaagcaa taatccgtgg ttccctaatg tgatgaaact ttgtttattt tcttttgatg 1440
              accagaatat ggtcaataaa tcaattggtt ggttaaccct ttagctgcat gcactatgaa 1500
              cttgtgattt gttcttgaaa cttcagtttt aattcatttc ctgaaaaccg tcagaccatt 1560
              tttcttcaaa atatgatgaa accaaatcct ataactggcc agccctttgg tcaaatcata 1620
              tttcccatct gtaaagcctt ctaattatca tcgtactgac cttaatcaga gaatcacgga 1680
              gcaagctggt gtagtgctca ctttggaccc aaaaccaatc caggtatatc cctgtaagtt 1740
              gttggaagca ctttatatat tggaacttag taaactgaag attaatttga tatagggtga 1800
              ctggaatgga gctggctgcc acacaaatta caggttccaa tctcttctgt taaataatca 1860
              tttttcctgc ttaacattta cagaatatct tgttgtatat taacaataca tcagaaaacc 1920
              taatatagct ttgctttagt aaatgctgtg gggttcacat cagaaggaaa tgtatgctgg 1980
              gactaataga aaaaaaccct ccaaatacac atttaaactg gctataaatg ggaaaccatt 2040
              attagtcgtc ggttttttat tgagcatgat tcagaataag catttattca cattagttaa 2100
              tcgctaaatt tggttagttg tttttctcaa tacacgatgc agttagtcct taatgtgcaa 2160
              gcgtgaaact atcttttctt gttgttgcaa atatagcaca aagagcatgc gtgaagatgg 2220
              aggttttgaa gtgattaaga aagcaatcct gaacctttca cttcgtcacg acttgcacat 2280
                                                  Page 53

              cagtgaatat ggtgaaggaa atgaacggag attgacaggg ttacatgaga cagctagcat 2340
<removed-date>
              atcagacttt tcatgggtac gggtggagca gcctttcatt atttttcagc tgtaatttac 2400
              ttcatgttta tttgcaagtt atactaatta taatacatca tctatcaggg tgtagcaaac 2460
              cgtggttgtt ctattcgggt ggggcgagac actgaggcaa aagggaaagg tatgtgctct 2520
              cccttggttc ctgaaactac ttgcactgtt tggaaatgca ggaaagagtt ctacccagaa 2580
              ataaaattca aggacattat gcaagcataa ttcttgggga gtagaaagcc cttaaactgt 2640
<removed-apn>
              ctaacttgga tcttaggttc tttagctcat tttacccata tggccatata acgaatatgg 2700
              atgccattct gatgattttg aatagttctg ggccaaatcc acgcccttaa atttgctatt 2760
              ctgcaccctc tacgtgttga gtgttatcaa tttgaaaaat gttccttcac tcatacatat 2820
              ctagtcacca actgatggcc tagctcacag ttgaaagaaa aatacattgg cacaaaatcg 2880
              atatcttact atactattat cagtacccat tcattatgac atggtaattt gcatggagcc 2940
              atacactgac agcgctgctg actgaaacta aaaggacttc atcttcatgc caacaggata 3000
              cctggaggac cggcgtccgg cctcaaacat ggacccatac actgtgactg ccctactggc 3060
              tgaaaccacg attctctggg agccgaccct tgaagcagag gctcttgctg ccaagaagct 3120
              ggcgatgaac gtatgaagga ctgaaaagga tgaatttctg ggaaaaataa atcgacagcg 3180
              acactgtttg tcgtccattc ttccggatct tgtggttcca tcggggcact gtctgtacaa 3240
              aatttacagt ttgtagaacc actttgcctt tcgcttgaac ttcacatttg atctgggtct 3300
              gtatctgatt ccacttggaa ctacgttaaa ggataatgaa acacacagga ttttgattca 3360
              gctattttat ttcctttgaa tggttcatct ttaagactag tgtcatgggt ggttcgtctg 3420
              tctcgagaat ttatctatag cgttaaagtt tctcatgttt ataaagcttt gatggggaat 3480
              gttggtgcta ttcctgcaat taaatggatg tgggatggtt gttgtcaaca gaggcacaag 3540
              gttttctttt ggccgcttgt tcataattgc ctcaacacca gggccct                 3587
              <210>      41
              <211>      296
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      41
              aaaacaggta cggtatcgag caggagtaca ccctccttca gaaggacgtg aactggcccc     60
                                                  Page 54

<removed-date>
              ttggctggcc cattggtggc taccctggtc ctcagggccc ctactactgc gccgccggcg   120
              cggacaaggc gttcggccgt gacatcgttg acgctcacta caaggcctgc ctctacgccg   180
              ggatcaacat cagcggcatc aacggggagg tcatgcccgg ccaggtacta cacatcatct   240
              tgcagcgact tgctttcaga aacacttcca gttgcgtgtg ccgccaactc tgactg       296
              <210>      42
<removed-apn>
              <211>      2162
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      42
              tgaaattatt gcaaacagat gacgctccta aaaccggtaa tctgggcctc caattattgg    60
              tgcgcctggt cagagccttc caagttccaa aactatgaat ggaaaacaat aacaatggcc   120
              atgccggtca atcactgtac atataaacaa cccaggccgt tgaggtttgg ctgttgctcg   180
              tgtttatttt gattggagag gtcgcctggg cttggccggc tcgcatgtgg agacggacgt   240
              gacaaggaga ggcagccgca tctttcatat ccagagcaca aaaacacatt gtaaactcta   300
              tccaagatgt gtgtgccttg cctgccttct gagcggcgct tccctttgct gtctttgcct   360
              ccggtggtgc tgcaagggcc gccagaaatc tcgtccaccc aaagccctat cgcctaatca   420
              agagccagat gccactgccc cagccgcggc cactagaatc tctctcgcaa atctaaaata   480
              cttatacgcc tcttgctctg cccccgtaga tagataaata attccagcgc gatcttgcag   540
              tcgccgaccg tttctcctcc tctcccctcg tctgcccgtc tgctgccgcc tctggtgagt   600
              ggtcgaacca atgcctagtt tcgttccttc tctgttgcat tcgctgctgg ctagcgatcg   660
              atccgatgtg gtaatggcgc ctatctgctt tggttggttc atcagctagc gttgacaagc   720
              aaggcggcag agtagctacc tactagctag cctgatggcg caggcggtgg tgccggcgat   780
              gcagtgccag atgggcgcgc tgggcaagtc ggccgtccgt gccagggccg ggggaagggt   840
              gtggggcgtc aggagggccg cccgcggcac ggccgggttc aaggtgctgg ccctcggccc   900
              ggagaccacc ggggtggtgc agaggatgaa ccagctgctc gacatggaca ccacgccctt   960
              caccgacaag atcatcgcag agtacatctg gtacgtacgt cctcccaatg ttgcattcct 1020
              cggttgcgcc ggagcgggct ttgttcgcac ccattgactc gccccagata ggccacaccc 1080
                                                  Page 55

              gcacttttgg ggactagatt agtgccgggg caagcagatt cgcccccttt ttaagtggta 1140
<removed-date>
              atttaatttt ctgtctaaag cttccagggc atggtgggtg atgagtgacg atttcaaaag 1200
              tgcttgcttt ttagttagtt ccagcacttg aataagctta ggaaaatgca catcgcactt 1260
              tgggggagca ataagggtca aacaaattgg tcctggcatc tactaagtat tatacctctg 1320
              tggcaaaata caagacgttt tggtagtcta tttttgggac agaggtaata gtactttaac 1380
              aattctgtct tcctctcttt acattccgca gggttggagg gtctggaatc gacatcagaa 1440
<removed-apn>
              gcaaatcaag ggtacgcagc ccactatctt catggaattg acattagatt tgtttttttt 1500
              tttgaaagga tttttttcta gaagtttagc ggatgagaag ttggttttgt atgcagagtt 1560
              ctccttcctt acatcctttt tggttcctga caagaaaatt taatgcttgc atttcagacg 1620
              atatcgaaac cggtggagga cccttccgag ctaccgaaat ggaactacga tggatcgagc 1680
              acagggcaag ctccgggaga agacagtgaa gtcatcctat agtaaggggg aaattacagt 1740
              atatgtgttt cttcaagctt gcatataaga agtatcctag atttatacat gtgttactct 1800
              atttatgttt tttcctatcc tgtttcagcc cacaggctat attcaaggac ccattccgag 1860
              gaggcaacaa catcatagta ccgtccattt tcccacttgc attattcatt tctggatttt 1920
              cttttatgca gctatactga aagggtcaat agtggacagt tttacctgtt tgttacatgt 1980
              gcagagtggc atgtgagtta aaatgatttt ttttgccttt caggttatgt gtgacacgta 2040
              cacaccacaa ggggaaccca tccctaccaa caaacgcgcc agggctgcac aaattttcag 2100
              tgacccaaag gtttcttcgc aagtgccatg gtaattatgc gttgagcacc tgtatgccgt 2160
              gc                                                                  2162
              <210>      43
              <211>      5926
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      43
              aacccgatga aatcaggaaa agcctgtttg gacaaaagga atctgacttt gaaaagtttg     60
              tgctgatgta ctgggaaagc tcaccttatt tgtacaggag gaaacaaagt ggtctggaag    120
              gggatcctgt gtacactgca ttgcgtaatg cgtttgatct tacaacacct gatgctatca    180
              ttgagtcatt tatacagggc cttgtttctt gccctgctat tgcttcggat gaactcaaca    240
                                                  Page 56

<removed-date>
              tagactcatt tctccatgag gttcgtgatt ctttgggtgc tcctgtgaag tacaggcaag   300
              atgtaagagt tgtcagaaca cgagatcaga cctcaacagg gtctgggatg gaggagcatt   360
              tcttcgatga tggtattgcc ttcccggatg catctgcatt tgttgacaaa tgtaaggacg   420
              cagtcaagaa tggcttctca attgccttgc gtggcatgga gttccggtca gaaaaggttg   480
              ctgctatagc ttctgctctg gctgatctgt ttggtcagcc ttctgtagga gccaatgtat   540
<removed-apn>
              acttctcacc tcctagatct caaggcctgg cccggcatta tgacgaccac tgtgtgcttg   600
              tttggcagct acttggttgc aagaagtgga agatttggcc caatacgagg tcaattttgc   660
              ctagactgta tgaacctttt cactctttag atgacttggt ggatgatagt ggtggaaggg   720
              tggaagtgtt acatgaagga gacataatgt atgttcctag aggctgtgtc cacgaggctc   780
              atactgacat tgatgatggt gaatccgagg tcaatgcatc agccaattac tcactccatt   840
              tgacccttgc cattgaagtc gagcaaccct ttgagtgagt attcctactt ctgcaaacaa   900
              aggcattctt tgcatgcatg cccagtggtt ctgtgtttca ccatttatct tttgttacag   960
              gtgggaagga tttgcacaca ttgctcttca ctgttggttg ttggaggagc agacacttgg 1020
              atgtagctct ggatctatca actccaaggt ggatgaacaa gctccattat tttctctcct 1080
              gctgcatctg gcgatcaggc tgctctccga caatgatcct agtctgagga aggcgtgcat 1140
              ggttgcggcg aagcttccat catccagcaa ctcctgttca acttctcact ccaactccct 1200
              cagaagccac catatgtcaa ccttcatcga gatactcaac aagatcgata acacctgcaa 1260
              cctcaaggag gtgctgagat tggtcgagct tgtggttaaa ggaaagacgg atgagccctt 1320
              ccagtggatg tcctggctcc ggcatctcca acagcagcag tacggcgaca cggcggctca 1380
              caagatcgac ttctgcgacc tcctgggacc tttcaaagag cttcttgaca tgtttggctc 1440
              cgatcctgaa caagcctcgg ctgagttcac tgatttcaag tcgaggttct gtaggtgtgc 1500
              tgggtatgat gatgcttgca agagcttcga gatgctgctc cacatgtata ggacaactag 1560
              gactcagtac acaaagggca tgctggcatt gcacgggaga cataggaatt agcctctgga 1620
              gtggagatca aatccttaat tcctagctca tgacagataa gtttcagtga ttaggtaggc 1680
              aggcatattt tttggtcagc ttagctcgga tttagtactc ggatcccacg aattctgatg 1740
              ctacattcaa gtgtgtgagt gggaaatcac attgcaaagc tagaaaagag aagaatctga 1800
                                                  Page 57

              agcatctctg tggaaatcgc cagttgcagt tggttacgca gaaacaacag cttgttttca 1860
<removed-date>
              tgaaagatat acagctactg gtgccaaatt tgcaccgtcg ggagccgtac atctgtggta 1920
              ctgatcagtt ggactgactg agcggaatat gttaattcca ggtcccgcaa tcattgcaaa 1980
              tagacgacgc tcctaaaacc ggtgatcttg tccccaatta ttgcagcctg gtcagagcct 2040
              tccaaagtga tgaaaaataa acatatcacg atgcgggtca atcccaataa ggttttgggt 2100
              ttggagaggt cacctgggtt cggccggatg gcctctggag atggacgtga caattattgt 2160
<removed-apn>
              ttgttggatg atagcggtcg accgataaaa gttttgcgtg gacacataac atatcttcct 2220
              tagaggttgt gtccatgagg caccaatgca tctgccaatt actcactcta tttgaccctt 2280
              gacattgaag tcgagccacc ctttgacttt gagtatgtat tcttcctgtt gcaaacaaag 2340
              gcatcttggc atatacaatt atgcatgtct aatggttctg ctcctcacca tttacctttg 2400
              ttacagatgg tgagatggga atggtttgca cacatcgctc ttcgctgttg gttagagaag 2460
              gagactcttt ttttttttga aacggaggca aaagttttgc ctcatccatt cattaagcag 2520
              aaggtgtctg gtttttagga gaaaaccggg caaaaaccta caaagacagg gccaaaccca 2580
              cacccaccca cacgacgcca caaaggcaca ccgagccacc ctgactaccc acataagcta 2640
              cacaaacgcg aagctcaagt tggcctatgc caaatagatg gctccccaag aaaaagccgg 2700
              tagctccgat tctgacgacg agccgcggag aggagatgca caagacctgc gccgaaaagg 2760
              atcttcaccg tcgaatcgcc cctccagaga aggagactct ggaggagctc tggatctgtc 2820
              aagtccgagg tggaagaaca agcttcattg taatgctctc ctgctccaag tggccatcag 2880
              gctgctctct gacaatgatc ccgctctcat gaaagcctgc atggtcgcag caaggcttcc 2940
              atcatccagc aactcctgtg agacagctgt ctcagaagca gccatagatc aagctttgcc 3000
              aagatactca acaagatcaa caacacctgc aacctcaagg aggtgctgag gtcgatcaag 3060
              ctcgcgatta aaggaaagtt ggactgagtc ctgtatccgg catctgccac agaagcagca 3120
              gcacggagac gcgatggctc tcaggatcga cttgtgcggc gtcctgagac tgctcgaaga 3180
              gcttcttgat gtgtttggct gaggggttcg agacgctgct gaagatgtgc agaacggttc 3240
              agaaccggta catgagggat tgaggggcat gctggcgttg cacgcgaggc atggtggtta 3300
              gctgttggag tgcaggtcga attcctccta gctcctgacc gacaagtttc gcggtgattg 3360
              ggcagctagg cctgttttag tttgggtcag ttttagttcg gctctgctac ttggcttcac 3420
                                                  Page 58

<removed-date>
              ggtttttagc tgttagttcc tctgttcatc tagatacatg tagtacttct agacaaatct 3480
              ggcacacttg tttccgaacg gagggagtac tagcgagtga gaaatcactt tgcaatagtg 3540
              agaaatctga agcatctccg ctgaatcaca tcagctggta caaggaagaa tagcctcttt 3600
              tcagcaaaga cacacagttg tgctggtacc aacttgtact atcaggaacc gtacatcagc 3660
              agctcgactg accgacttaa cggaatctga taataatacc aagacgtgca attattgcga 3720
<removed-apn>
              acagatgacg ttcctaaaac cggtatcttg gccccaggta attgctgtgc ctggtcagag 3780
              ccttccaaag tgatgaaaaa atggccacgc tgcgagtcaa tctctcagtg cacataaaca 3840
              aagctgggtt ttttattttt tggttggaga cttggagagg tcgcctgggc ttggccgggc 3900
              tcgccggcgt gcgtcggggg gagacggacg tgacaaggag aggcagccgc atctttcata 3960
              tccagaggcc agagcacaag aaacattgta aactctatct atccgtgatg tgtgttgcat 4020
              cggtgtgttt gtgtctcttt gcccccgatg gtgctgcaag ggccgccaga aatctcgtcc 4080
              acccgaagcc ctatcgccta atcaaaagcc agatgccact gcccgcgccg cggccactag 4140
              aatctctctc gcaaatccaa agtctttttt gctctgctcc cataaataaa taattccacc 4200
              gcgatctcgc agttgctccg ccctctccct ctcccctctc gtctcgtctg ccgcctgctg 4260
              ccgcctctgg tgagtggtcg aaccaatgct tacctcgctt cttcaattcc ctgttgcacg 4320
              agtgatcgat gttgtaatgg cgcttgtctg ctttggtttc ttggttgatc agctagcgtt 4380
              gacaagcaag gcggcagagt acctagctag ctccggtagc tagccgagat ggcgcaggcg 4440
              gtggtgccgg cgatgcagtg ccagatgggc gcgctgggca agtcggccgt ccgcgcgagg 4500
              ccggcggcgg ccgggggaag ggtgtggggc atcaggaagg ccgcccgcgg cacggccggg 4560
              ttcaaggtgc tggccctcgg tccggagacc accggggtgg tgcagaggat gaaccagctg 4620
              ctcgacatgg acaccacgcc cttcaccgac aagatcatcg cagagtacat ctggtacgta 4680
              cgtcctccca atgttgcatt cctaggttgc gccggagcgg gctaccattg actcccccga 4740
              cacagcagca ccagccacca gtagcttcag ataggccaaa cccgcacttt ctgggagtag 4800
              attagtgccg gtgcaagcag attcgacccc tttttaaggt ttgatgatag tggtaattta 4860
              attctctgtc taaagcttcc agggcatggg tgggtgatga ctgacgaatt caaaagtgct 4920
              cgctttttag ttagttccag cacttgaata agcttaggaa aatgcacatc gcactttggg 4980
                                                  Page 59

              ggagcaataa gggtcaacta ctaagtacta cctctgtggc aaaatataag acgcttttgt 5040
<removed-date>
              agggacgcct atttttgaga cagatgtaat attactagta tttaacaatt ctgcctttct 5100
              ctcttcgcat tctgcagggt tggagggtct ggaatcgaca tcagaagcaa atcaagggta 5160
              cgcagcccac tatcttcatg gaattgacat tatatttgtt tttggaaatg atttttttta 5220
              aaagtttaca cgatgagcag ttggttttgt acgcagcata ctccttactt acttccttct 5280
              tggcttctga caaaaaaaat taatgctcgc atttcagacg atatcgaaac cggtggagga 5340
<removed-apn>
              cccttccgag ctaccgaagt ggaactacga tggatcgagc acagggcaag ctcctggaga 5400
              agacagtgaa gtcatcctat agtaaggggg aaattacagt atatgtgttt cttcaagctt 5460
              gcatataaga agtatcctag atttatacat gtgttaactc catttatgtt tttcctatcc 5520
              tgtttcagcc cacaggctat attcaaggac ccattccgag gaggcaacaa catcatagta 5580
              ccgtccattt tccccacttg cattattcat ttctggtttt gcttttatgc agctatactg 5640
              aaagggtcaa tagtggacgg ttttacctgt ttgttacatg ttgcaaagtg ccatgtgagt 5700
              taaaatgatt tttttttgcc tttcaggtta tgtgtgacac gtacacacca caaggggaac 5760
              ccatccctac caacaaacgc gccagggctg cacaaatttt cagtgaccca aaggtttctt 5820
              cgcaagtgcc atggtaatta tgcgttgagc acctgtatgc cgtgcaaagg cctgctgttc 5880
              ttttacctcc ctttattcgc ctacagactg tagagttgaa aaaact                  5926
              <210>      44
              <211>      8388
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <220>
              <221>      unsure
              <222>      (1)..(8388)
              <223>      unsure at all n locations
              <400>      44
              atctccgcgg aaatcaccag ttgcagttgg ttgtgcagaa acaacttgtt ttaatgaaag     60
              atatacagct gctggtgcca aatttgtact gtcaggagcc gtacatctct ggtaccgagc    120
              agttggactg actgagcgga acatgttaat tacaggccct gcaatgattg caaatagatg    180
              acactcctaa aaccggtgat cctgtcccca attattgccg cctggtcaga gccttccaaa    240
                                                     Page 60

              tgatgaaaat tgaaaaataa acatatcacg atgcaggtca atcccaataa ggttttgggt   300
<removed-date>
              ttggagaggt cacctgggtt cggtgggctg gcctctggag atggaagtaa caattatgat   360
              ttgttggatg acagcagctg acgcatgaaa gttttgcatg cacacataat atatcttcct   420
              taaccacgag gcatcaatgc atctgctaat tactcactct atttgaccct tgacattgaa   480
              gtcgagccac cgtttgactt tgagtatgta ttctccctgt tgcaaacaaa ggcatcttgg   540
              catatgcaat tatgcatgtc taatggttcc gcttctcacc atttactttt tgttacagat   600
<removed-apn>
              ggtgagatgg gaatggtttg cacacatcgc tcttcgctgt tggttagaga aggagatact   660
              ctggaggagc tctggatctg tcaagtccga ggtggaagaa caggctcctt ttttagccct   720
              cctgctgcat gtggccatca ggctgctctc ggacaatgat cccgctttca tgaaagcctg   780
              catggtcgcg gcaaggcttc catcatctag caactcctgt gagacaactg tctctaattc   840
              tatcagaagc agccataggt caacctttgc cgaggtactc aacaaaatca acaacacctg   900
              caacctcaag gaggcgctga ggtcgatcaa gctcacgatt acaggaaagg tggactgaac   960
              ccttccggtg gatgtcctgg ctccggcatc tgctgcagaa tcagcagcac ggagccgcag 1020
              cggcttgcag gatcgacttg tgggacgtcc tggggctgct cgaagagctt cttgacgtgt 1080
              ttggctctga cagtgagggg ttcgagatgc tgctgaagat ttacagtacg gttaggaacc 1140
              ggtacatgag ggattgacgg gcatgctggc gttgccttgc acgggaggtg tggtggttag 1200
              ctgttggagt gcagatggaa ttcctcctag cccctgacca ataagtttcg caatgattgg 1260
              ttagctagtt ttagctcagc tccgctactt gggttcacgg ttttaagctg ttacttcctc 1320
              cgttcatctg gacacatgta aatctagaca aatccgcacc tagcgagtga gaaatcactt 1380
              cgcaatagta gaaaagaaga agaaatctga agcatctctg ctgaatcaca ccagctggtg 1440
              catcggaaga atagcctctt ttcagcaaag acacacagtt gtgctggtac caacttgtac 1500
              tatcaggaac cgtacatcag cagctcgact gaccgactta acggaatctg ataatgatac 1560
              caagtcgtac aattattgcg aacagatgac gttcctaaaa ccggtatctt ggccccaggt 1620
              aattgctgtg cctggtcaga gccttgcaaa atgatggaaa aatggtcacg ctgcgagtca 1680
              atctcacagt gcacataaac aaagctggga ttttttttgg ttggagactt ggagaggtcg 1740
              cctgggcttg gcatgcgttg gggggagacg gacgtgacaa ggagaggcag ccgcatcttt 1800
              catatccaga ggcgagagca caagaaacat tgtaaactct atctatccgt gatgtgtgtt 1860
                                                  Page 61

<removed-date>
              gcatcggtgt gtttgtgtct ctttgccccc gatggtgctg caagggccgc cagaaatctc 1920
              gtccacccga agccctatcg cctaatcaaa agccagatgc cactgcccgc gccgcggcca 1980
              ctagaatctc gctcgcaaat ctgaagcctg tgcttctccc ataaataaat aattccaccg 2040
              cgatcttgca accgctccgc tccgccttct ctcccctctc gtctcgtctc gtctgccgcc 2100
              tctggtgagt ggtcgaacca atgctcaact cgcttcttca attctctgac cagtgatcga 2160
<removed-apn>
              tcgatgtgcc gatgtggtaa tggcgcctgt ctgctctgct ttgttggttg atcagctagc 2220
              gttgacgagg agcgcggcag agtacctagc tagctagctc cggtagctag ccgagatggc 2280
              gcaggcggtg gtgccggcga tgcagtgcca gatgggcgcg ctgggcaagt cggccgtccg 2340
              cgcgaggccg gcggcggccg ggggaagggt gtggggcgtc aggaggaccg cccgcggcac 2400
              ggccgggttc aaggtgctgg cactcggccc ggagaccacc ggggtggtgc agaggatgaa 2460
              ccagctgctc gacatggaca ccacgccctt caccgacaag atcatcgcag agtacatctg 2520
              gtacgtacgt cctcccaatg ttgcattcct cggttgcgcc ggagcgggct ttgttcgctt 2580
              ccattgactc cccccgacag aacatcacca gtagcttcag ataggccaaa cccgcacttt 2640
              ttgggactag attagtgccg gtgcaagcag attcgcctcc tttttaaggt ttgatgatag 2700
              tggtaattta attctctgtc taaagcttcc tgggcatggt gggtgatgag tgacgaattc 2760
              aaaagtgctc gctttttagt tagttccagc aattgaataa gcttagggaa atgcacatcg 2820
              cgctttgcgg gagcaataag ggtcaaacac taagtagtac ctctgttgca aaatataaga 2880
              agcttttgta gcctattttt gggacagatg taatattact actagtattt aacaattctt 2940
              cctttctctc tttacattct gcagggttgg agggtctgga atcgacatca gaagcaaatc 3000
              aagggtacgc agcccacaat cttcatggac ttgacattat atattttttt taaatgattt 3060
              cttttctaga agtttagggg atgggaagtt ggttttgtac gcagagtact acttccttac 3120
              taccttttcg gctcctgaca agaaaattta atgcttgcat ttcagacgat atcgaaaccg 3180
              gtggaggacc cttccgagct accgaagtgg aactacgatg gatcgagcac agggcaggct 3240
              cctggagaag acagtgaagt catcctatag taagggggga attacagtac atgtgttctt 3300
              caaccttgca cataaaaatc ctagatttat aaatgtgtta ctccatttat gttttttcct 3360
              atcctgtttc agcccacagg ctatattcaa ggacccattc cgaggaggca acaacatcat 3420
                                                  Page 62

              agtaccgtcc attttcccac ttgcattatt catttctgga ttttgctttt atgcagctat 3480
<removed-date>
              actgaaaggg tcaatagtgg acagttttac ctgtttgtta catgtgcaga gtggcatgtg 3540
              agttaaaatg attttttttg cctttcaggt tatgtgtgac acgtacacac cacaagggga 3600
              acccatccct accaacaaac gcgccagggc tgcacaaatt ttcagtgacc caaaggtttc 3660
              ttcgcaagtg ccatggtaat tatgcgttga gcacctgtat gccgtgcaaa ggcctgctgt 3720
              tcttttacct ccctttattc gcctgcagac tatagagttg aaaaatcttc ttttctaggt 3780
<removed-apn>
              ttggaatcga acaggagtac actttgatgc agagagatgt gaactggcct cttggctggc 3840
              ctgttggagg gtaccctggc ccccaggtac tgtaccaaga agcttcattt actatacaaa 3900
              aaataaatct taggctggct gaaatacact ttttagttaa acactgttga gtagtaatat 3960
              tgtgctgaaa tattgcaggg tccatactac tgcgccgtgg gatcagacaa gtcatttggc 4020
              cgtgacatat cagatgctca ctacaaggca tgcctttacg ctggaattga aatcagtgga 4080
              acaaacgggg aggtcatgcc tggtcaggtg agcctttata tttatatgtg cgcatgtatt 4140
              cttattttgt gtgaaccaga gatgtttttt acattttctt tcaaatgaaa gtcgaagtgt 4200
              ttaataagtg gaatttcaca aaccttatcc atgcagtggg agtaccaggt tggacctagt 4260
              gtgggtattg atgctggaga tcacatatgg gcttcaagat atcttctcga ggtacttcaa 4320
              gcaataatcc gtggttccct aatgtgatga aactttgttt atattctttt gatgaccaga 4380
              atatggtcaa taaatcaatt ggttggttaa ccctttagct gcatgcacta tgaacttgtg 4440
              atttgttctg aaacttcagt tttaattcat ttgctgaaaa ccgtcagacc atttttcttc 4500
              acaatgtgat gaaaccaaat cctataactg gccagccgat tggtcaaatc atatttccca 4560
              tcagtaaagc cttctaatta tcatcgtact gaccttaatc agagaatcac ggagcaagct 4620
              ggtgtagtgc tcactctgga cccaaaacca atccaggtat atccctgaaa gttgttggaa 4680
              gcactttata tattggaact tagtaaactg aagattaatt tgatataggg tgactggaat 4740
              ggagctggct gccacacaaa ttacaggttc caatctcttc tgttaaataa tcatttttcc 4800
              tgcttaacat ttacagaata tcttgttgta tattaacaat acatcagaaa acctaatata 4860
              gctttgcttt agtaaatgct gtggggttca catcagaagg aaatgtatgc tgggactaat 4920
              agaaaaaaac cctccaaata caaatttaaa ctggctataa atgggaaacc attattagtc 4980
              gtcggttttt tattgagcat gattcagaat aagcatttat tcacattagt taatcgctaa 5040
                                                  Page 63

<removed-date>
              atttggttag ttgtttttct caatacacga tacagtttgt ccttaatgtg caagtgagaa 5100
              actatctttt cttgttgttg caaatatagc acaaagagca tgcgtgaaga tggaggtttt 5160
              gaagtgatta agaaagcaat cctgaacctt tcacttcgtc acgacttgca catcagtgaa 5220
              tatggtgaag gaaatgaacg gagattgaca gggttacatg agacagctag catatcagac 5280
              ttttcatggg tacgggtgga gcagcctttc attatttttc agctgtgatt tacttcatgt 5340
<removed-apn>
              ttatttacaa attatactaa ctacaatact tcatctatca gggtgtagca aaccgtggtt 5400
              gttctattcg ggtggggcga gacactgagg caaaagggaa aggtatgtgc tctcccttgg 5460
              ttcctgaaac tacttgcact gtttggaaat gcaggaaaga gttctaccca gaaataaaat 5520
              tcaaggacat tatgcaagca taattcttgg ggagtagaaa gcccttaaac tgtctaactt 5580
              ggatcttagg ttctttagct cattttaccc acatggccat ataacgaata tggatgccat 5640
              tctgatgatt ttgaatagtt ctgggccaaa tccacgccct taaattcgct attctgcacc 5700
              ctctacgtgt tgagtgttat caatttgaaa aatgttcctt cactcataca tatccagtca 5760
              ccaactgatg gcctagctca cagttgaaag aaaaatacat tggcaccaaa tcgatatctt 5820
              actatactat tatcagtacc cattcattat gacatggtaa tttgcatgga accatacact 5880
              gacagcgctg ctgactgaaa ctaaaaggac ttcatcttca tgccaacagg atacctggag 5940
              gaccggcgtc cggcctcaaa catggaccca tacactgtga ctgccctact ggctgaaacc 6000
              acgattctct gggagccgac ccttgaagca gaggctcttg ctgccaagaa gctggcgatg 6060
              aacgtatgaa ggactgaaaa ggatgaattt ctgggaaaaa taaatcgaca gcgacactgt 6120
              ttgtcgtcca ttcttcctga tcttgtggtt ccatcggggc actgtctgta caaaatttac 6180
              agtttgtaga accactttgc ctttcgcttg aacttcacat ttgatctggg tctgtatctg 6240
              attccacttg gaactacgtt aaaggataat gaaacacaca ggattttgat tcagctattt 6300
              tatttccttt gaatggttca tctttaagac tagtgtcatg tattctagtg atttcctcgg 6360
              tggttcgtct gtctcgagaa tttatctata gcgttaaagt ttctcatgtt tataaagctt 6420
              tgatggggaa tgttggtgct attcctgcaa ttaaatggat gtgggatggt tgttgtcaac 6480
              agaggcacaa ggttttcttt tggccgcttg ttcataattg ccccaacacc agggccctgc 6540
              tccatcgaaa gaattttgcg atgaatgatt attcttgtgt catgtgtaat cagcagcatc 6600
                                                  Page 64

              ttgagacaag agatcatctg ttcttccaat gtccttttgt tgtgctgtgc tggcaatatc 6660
<removed-date>
              tctgtcctct ttggatttcc ctcctttggg gtagtttgat cttcaagata cattatctgg 6720
              ccttaagctt gctatctcca agcctttctt tatggagctg ataatgttga tcatatggtt 6780
              tatatggctc acccgcaatg attttatcta aggctgttcc tccaatgatt ttatcttcaa 6840
              ggctgttcct ccaagtgttt acagatgtcg gaagagattt aaggatgggc ttgcccttct 6900
              agttcacaaa gcgaagagaa aatcttatca tggcatagtc acttgggtgg aaattttaga 6960
<removed-apn>
              tagccttttt ctttctcttt gggcttatgg cctcttttat ttgctcctct caagcaactg 7020
              ttctcttttg tagacctttt aagctttata aataaaataa aaaatataca gtggggaaac 7080
              tcactgttta gcctaaaaaa agaatttatc tatagccata ccaatataat gccatgatac 7140
              taacacaagt taaaaaccag tggcgaagct agagattctg accagtaggg ccagttatct 7200
              tgtttatggt gtaatttttc agtaatgagc aatgtaaaga actacatcaa tgaagatttc 7260
              tgaatttcta ctgggttcgt ttcaacacga gaactgtatg caagnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn 7320
              nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnna aaaccgatgt gtatattaac aggagcattg agcaacaacc 7380
              accgatttct gtgagtagca cttttccttt ttttttctac ttcggaatta cattcgattt 7440
              tttcgtatgg tgaagattta atctggatat gaactttctt gtaatatatc aatactatgt 7500
              caatgttgcg aacacaattc aggaatattt taaacattta actacttcta aaaaatgcta 7560
              gtaccacatt atcaagtgcc aaagtacact aagtactccg actgtcaaaa aaaaaaagtg 7620
              ccgaagtact cccaggacaa acacgcaccg tggcgtaatg gaatgtccgt gtctggcgtg 7680
              cgtggctacg ttgttctact actcgtctaa tagattagaa gcaaatgcct ccgcagaccg 7740
              cagtcatgca gatcaatcat gaatttcttt gtgataataa gatcattcat ggacttgatt 7800
              atgtctgcct tttggttgtg gcaaagggca caacagcaac aacagtgcag tgacggaaga 7860
              tacagagacg ggagaccagg acactgaact agataagacg attgattgta cacgaactga 7920
              acacccagag atggcctatg gatgcttctt cttcttgtgc gccggcgggg agctgcggtc 7980
              gtgcatggcc accccgctgt agtcctcgct ggagatcagc ccttccgtga cggctccggc 8040
              gtcctcatct tcctcctctc tccgaccgtc cttcctctcc gcatcgatct tcacttccat 8100
              cgctgctacc tggacacgcg cagttcacga actacaaatc aaatcacatt ctcaattttg 8160
              cttctcatgt gcatttgcct aagatatcac caatcaggat taatgatact ttcttctgaa 8220
                                                  Page 65

<removed-date>
              caaccaaatg ttcctttcta ggatgaactg aacaaaagat ggcgtgtgca gagacagaca 8280
              ggcacacgac caagcaacag cttcagctgt tgagccgccg agtctttgca caaagtgcag 8340
              aagaaactct gtttttcgcg acactggatt tttttttggg gaaatatg                8388
              <210>      45
              <211>      8001
              <212>      DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      45
              aaatatttcc ctcagtgttt gtaatatgtt gcaacatttc cctgtttgac acataaaaga     60
              atatccaaaa ttgtttgcat cattcaaaca tactcttgca acaaaagtaa cgtgagcacg    120
              agacaaatcc ccattggttt cagcagacct attaaaatag gcaaacataa aattcaaatg    180
              cattcatcat ataaaacaac aatggttaat acatttgcaa cataattttg aaccttccct    240
              agatatatgt tcaaataatt gcattgtgtt tctcatgtgt aaacaataaa caatgcacgc    300
              ttgcaacatg ctaaaatact ccacacaaca taaacataat ttattccact aaattcccct    360
              atcaacaaga ggggttgacc ttctccaatt caggagcaca ttgacaccgc atcgagcatc    420
              ctatactcat tccatgtagt cccgcacctt ccttgatgtt ggccgcatgg agggcttcaa   480
              ttttactcaa gctcaaggtc cgtgggcaca agtgcttccc tctccaaatg aggggaataa   540
              gcaacatagg actgttagag gaggaatgct acactagagt ggatggggag aagcacaaac   600
              gatcattggc taaggatgaa ctccaaggag agtatgtatg gtagggaaaa aagtggtatg   660
              tggatgggga ggaggagtag agagaggatg atgtaaagaa ggagaggtgg agggagagca    720
              gcgaggcact catgtttaag ggagaatgtg aggtgcgaga gacaaatgca aactatagag    780
              tggtcggaac caccaccgat caattggtgt tatatatatg ttttcaaaaa aggttatttt    840
              tattaaaatc aaacgtttgc atcaaggcga tacaagcaac atgagcttac acatggccta    900
              tgcataggta ggatgcacat ggtggtaaca ctttaagctt ccttgctagc tgcacatttc   960
              acggttacgc ttggtgatga tgacaccttt gcggaggtac cgcacaattt tgttttgtat 1020
              ttagatgtac cttcatttca aaatgtgttt attattaaca ataaaagttg aatgtaaaat 1080
              tgctctgtgc gtggaatccg tgaagacttg tgtaaattcc aatgaaggtc gtcagttgct 1140
                                                  Page 66

              tgcgacaatt ggatcattga caaccacccg acattgcatg ctgcaagtcg aaccctgact 1200
<removed-date>
              aaatgccgtc taaatgccac attagctggg aaggtttgca tcacaccaac gacaacatcg 1260
              cttttgtgac gtgcaatatg gtgtagagat ggataatggt ctcctagggt ggtatttcct 1320
              aggcgttatc ctcacaaaac cttgtcccca agatatcctt gatgataaat gttccaaaga 1380
              gaaattaata tttcttcatt gtcattagac atgcaaagat gtgagtctat cggttccagc 1440
              aaaccttgga gagggccttt gatcctacat acttttcatg agggtttcct ccgtaagaag 1500
<removed-apn>
              cttgaaaaat tatttactaa ggaggaaata ttcttaactt gaaggtctta agtgccaaaa 1560
              ccatcatgat gtttgggatt tgatcctaca tacttttcat gagggtttcc ttcataagaa 1620
              gcttgaaaaa ttatttaccg aggaggaaat attcttaact tgaaggtctt aagtgccgaa 1680
              accaccatga tctttgggat ttgatcctac atacttttca tgagggtttc ctccataaga 1740
              aggagaaaat attcttaatt tgaaagtctt aagtgccaaa accaccatga tctttgggac 1800
              gatagattgc atccatttag ccaatcggta ccttttcttt tcaccgccgc ctcaccaaaa 1860
              gaatgttgat agtagtaatc caacctttgt agggtatctg gagcttggaa gaaaggtaac 1920
              atatataata gaaatgttac ttagtattaa attgatggga accaatgttc tgagctttgc 1980
              aactcaaccc ttttcgaggc acttcacaac atgtttccac tacgcttttt ttttgaacgt 2040
              gcatttgtta gacgttagtc cctgacagaa catatattct acaattcagg ttgccgtgac 2100
              acgtttctaa ctagtgacca gattgattta tgtaacatgt tctaatacac tctctaaacc 2160
              taagatattt gcgagctgct caatcaactt acaactaggg cttcgatacg tgtagcccca 2220
              tctcaagttg agatgattat taattgaggt tcttgccaca caaacggtaa tgtatcccct 2280
              ccataaaaag agagagataa gagtatcttt ttttcaaact gtctatacaa ctgaaaaaca 2340
              aatcatacca gcttgcgaaa agaaacttgc cagcgtaggc acctccttgc tataaatacc 2400
              ggtcgcgtcc cccggctttt tcctcatccc ctgcttctcg agctgcacac ctcatcccat 2460
              cgtcttcccc attgtcatcc catctctcct ttgcgattag caatggccag cctcgccgac 2520
              ctcattaacc tcgacctcag ctccaccacc gacaagatca tcgtcgagta cctatggtta 2580
              gcatcctcct ctgctttcca tctgctcccg atcttgacag aaaaagaaag atcctaccaa 2640
              agatttagga tcacactctc gcgaaattaa actacttaca ttctacatac atgatctttg 2700
              attctgctgc aagcctaacg ctgaagtttt tctgtcgagt ttaatctgcg cgatcttgta 2760
                                                  Page 67

<removed-date>
              tcgtctgtaa ttctttgttt ctctctgttc agggttggag gaactggtgt tgacatcagg 2820
              agcaaagcaa gggtgagtaa ttcgatctag agtctagaca tacacttctg aaaaatctca 2880
              agagataccg gccggtgcaa cgatttctca ccatctgact gttttttttt ttcgatctga 2940
              gcagacggtg aacggcccca tcaccgacgc gagccagctg cccaagtgga actacgacgg 3000
              ctcgagcacc ggtcaggctc ccggagagga cagcgaagtc atcctctagt aagtgcaaca 3060
<removed-apn>
              ccagtcttga ctttgccaac tgttgtaact ttgatcttca tgtttttttt ttttgttttt 3120
              tacctggacc cctggagtaa ttttctctta attgccatct tgcagcccac aagccatctt 3180
              caaggaccca ttcaggaggg gtgaccacat ccttgtaagc tcctctgcct tttatcttcc 3240
              atgtttcaca ccgaacttgt tatgcaccat ggcatggcct aaagtaggaa gagtgaagag 3300
              gacaggaaag gacacagcat gtacttcgaa aaaaaaatac aattctatat ttttgcaact 3360
              tttaacctgg gtaaaatctt atgtaactag acccctttta cggttttact aagtatcagg 3420
              atcttatttt tctaagtctg aatctttgat atggtggaca aaacaacagt gtgtgtcctg 3480
              ttgtatacaa acctcaaaag tcacaagttg cccgactagt agttgcccat aactttcagt 3540
              tcagagaaat tcaacttctt agtgctgatt gatgctattt gaaaaaaata ggtcaactag 3600
              cacaactcat actatatctt tgtttaaata aataataaaa agcttcaccc aatgcagaac 3660
              cgatgttacc actgtatttg gcactaaatt atctattcaa tattccttgt aggttatgtg 3720
              cgactgctac acaccacaag gtgtgccaat ccccaccaac aagaggaaca atgctgccaa 3780
              gatcttcgac aaccctaagg ttgcagctga ggtgacatgg taagaatact tctatcgaga 3840
              gttcaagtta tcttttcttt tcttcctgcg gtgttgtttc agtcatgttc ttgtttcaaa 3900
              catacaacat aaaattctaa ggaggagatt actaccagac actgtacttt gcatcagatg 3960
              aaaagtacaa atataaataa tgtccaacgt aagagctaag aaaaacatta aaaattcagt 4020
              tcctggaaaa gaaaagctac taccaggaaa gtgatcagag catttggcac ctttgtatcc 4080
              actttcctgc cttatctgtt ttatgatagc acacacacaa agtaggctta tctctgaatc 4140
              caaaaacagg tacggtatcg agcaggagta caccctcctt cagaaggacg tgaactggcc 4200
              ccttggctgg cccattggtg gctaccctgg tcctcagggc ccctactact gcgccgccgg 4260
              tgcggacaag gcgttcggcc gtgacatcgt tgacgcccac tacaaggcct gcctctacgc 4320
                                                  Page 68

              cgggatcaac atcagcggca tcaacgggga ggtcatgccc ggccaggtac tagacagcat 4380
<removed-date>
              gttgcagcaa cttggtttca gaaacacttc taactgtgat atggctgatg cgtgtgccgc 4440
              caactctgac tctgaaccag tttcaaaaaa aaaaaaactc tgactctgaa cctgattctg 4500
              ccgtgtgaca gtgggagttc caagttggcc cgtccgttgg gatcgccgcc tccgaccagc 4560
              tctgggtggc ccgctacatc ctcgaggtca gtgccctccg aacatattcg attctcaggg 4620
              agaataacgt agttgcaact gtctgactga ctccaatttg atggtgattg ataacagagg 4680
<removed-apn>
              atcacagagg ttgccggagt tgtgctgtcc ctggacccga agccgatccc cggcgactgg 4740
              aacggcgccg gcgcgcacac caactacagc accaagtcca tgagggaggc cggtgggttc 4800
              gaggtgatca agaaggccat cgagaagctc ggcaagaggc acccagagca catcgccgcc 4860
              tatggcgagg gcaacgagcg ccgcctcact ggacaccacg agaccgccga catcaacacc 4920
              ttcaaatggg tatgtagcca agtgtcagtg tggcatgtcg atcgtgctct cgtgacctga 4980
              cgtgatgcta actaacaatt tgggttgact gacttgcagg gcgtcgcgaa ccgcggcgcg 5040
              tctatccgcg tgggccgcga caccgagaag gagggcaagg gctacttcga ggaccgcagg 5100
              cccgcctcca acatggaccc ctacgtcgtc acttccatga tcgctgagac aacgctcctc 5160
              ctctgaacac acacacaacc tatacggcta tatctacatt cggcaacgat gattgttaca 5220
              tcctcgactc tctcgatcga gggtggtggt gatggttaat ttctgcaaat tttcaaagtt 5280
              ccattccttg tcttctttag cagtcctgtc tgttttttgg gggtgcgcct tccttcagtg 5340
              tactctgaat aatgctatat ttccgcattc tgataaatga atttacggaa ccatttgtgt 5400
              tgctgttcag aatctccaca tgtgtccacg ctctccactc tcttttgcca tgtcacactg 5460
              atgcgaacaa attggatcat tgacaaccac ccgaaattgc atgctgcaag gcgaaccccg 5520
              tctaaatgcc acattagatg gggaggtttg catcacctca acggtagcat cgcttttgtg 5580
              acgtgcaata tgctgttgag atggatattg gtctcctagg gtggtactgt atttcctagg 5640
              cgttatcctc acaaaacctg atctccaaga tatccttgat gatacatgtt ccaaagagaa 5700
              attaatattt cttcattgtc attagacctg ctaaagatgc gagcctctcg ttttcccagt 5760
              aaaccttgga gaatgagggt ttcctcctac gaagcttgaa atattattat ttactaatga 5820
              ggaaatattc ttaacttgaa ggtcttaagt gccaaaacca ccatgatctt tgggatttga 5880
              tcctacatac ttttcatgag ggtttcctcc gtgagaagct tgaaaaatta tttactaagg 5940
                                                  Page 69

<removed-date>
              aggaaatatt cttaacttaa aaggtcttaa gtgccaaaac caccatgatc tttgggatga 6000
              tagattaaat ccatttagct catcggtact ttttcttttc accgccgcct cgctaaaaga 6060
              atcttaatag tagtaatcga atctttgtag ggtatttgga acttggaata aaggtagcat 6120
              atacaataga aatgttactt agtgataatt ggagaatatt acttgtatag attgttgcct 6180
              caatgagctg tttatataga gtacaagcct tggagaacaa ggataataaa gatagattac 6240
<removed-apn>
              aactcaaact actaaaccgg tatatactct aatatcccca tgtagtgtct acctctggtg 6300
              aaacgatgtt gaaactagag cgtatattat tgaatgacgc agtcgggagc cccttggtga 6360
              aaatatcagg aaactgtgca cttattggaa catgaagaac acggacttct ccaagagcca 6420
              ctttctcact aacaaagtgg atatcaatct caatgtgttt agtgagccga tgctgaactg 6480
              gatttgaagc catatagact gctgaaatat tatcacaata tacgatggtt gcatgctcaa 6540
              ttggtcgatg gagctcaaca aggagttgcc ggagctatac tgcctccacc gcagaataag 6600
              caacagagcg atattcagct ttagcagaga accgtgaaac tgtgacctgc cttttagagg 6660
              accaagaaac aagattatca cccaaataaa tacaatatag ccagatgtag atcatcgagt 6720
              atctggacaa cctgcccagt gtcaagcttg ttggagagga tgaattaaga agaagaccat 6780
              ggtcgagcct ttgggatacc gaagaatgcg tttgacatga gcgagatgag gtgtgcgagg 6840
              atcatgcata aagagacatg cttgttgaac agaatatgag atgtcatgac gagttagagt 6900
              ggcatattgg agagaactag tgatgctatt ttagagtgta cggtctggaa cacgaccacc 6960
              atcagccgac aatttggcac caatatcagc cggggtacgg gagggttgac aatcagacat 7020
              aacagaatga tggagcaaat ctaaaagata ctgacattga gaaataaaaa gagtagattt 7080
              tgtgcgagaa acactaatgc cgaggaagtg atgtaggggg ccaagatcag tcattgaaaa 7140
              ttcacaatta agagaggaga tgatatgttg tagaaaggaa tcagaagaac agtaagaata 7200
              atatcatcaa cacaaagaag aaggtagacg gcatgagcag cggattaaaa aataaaagga 7260
              aggaatcaga tttagtggga atgaagccaa tggtttgaat aaaggtgtca aaatgtataa 7320
              accaagcacg aggagcttgt ttgagcccat aaagagcctt tcggaggtgg caaacatgac 7380
              ccaatggaac ctcaataccc tggaggtggc tgcatgtaca cttcctcatg tagatcacca 7440
              tgaaggaaag catttttgac atctaattgg tggataggcc attgttaaga tagtgcgaga 7500
                                                  Page 70

              gagagaacga cgcggatggt ggcggatttg acgacggggc agaaggtctc atcgaaatca 7560
<removed-date>
              acacctcgtt ggtgggtgaa gccccgaacc acccatcgag ctttatgacg agcgagggta 7620
              ccgtccgcat tgtgcttgtg acggaaaatc catttgccag agacgatgtt ggcaccgggg 7680
              ggaggggtac gagtgaccag gtgttgttat gcatgagagc atcgtattcg tcctgcatag 7740
              caaaagtata ctacaacagg gaaagaaaag cctattaccg tgttcgaatc gccaaattaa 7800
              aaattcttga caactaccag atagcagttt cattgttttg ctttcaggta tcttaagaca 7860
<removed-apn>
              actgcgaata cactagctga cacactgtct tacttcatca acatattttg actaacactc 7920
              catcagcata tgttggttca gtgacaggaa agttttggtt ggtaaatgaa tcctgagttc 7980
              tctttcacat attccctgtt g                                             8001
              <210>      46
              <211>      1023
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      46
              gaactggccg taaggcgtgg tgccgccttg gtgcaggagc caattgaaat tactgatgag     60
              aacggcactt atatttcggc ttctgtccgc acctacggag ataccgtcca tacctttgtt    120
              gatcgctcca aatacaacgg ttttgctccc ggctacaagg cagtcgccgg taagagcggt    180
              cgcggtgttg gtctggcctc agtcgaccac gtagttggaa acgttgatga agacaagctc   240
              ttggaatggg tggagttcta cagccgtgtt ttcggcttct atgttttcca atacttcgat   300
              gcctccgata tcagcactaa atactccgcg ctggtttcca aagtcatggc caataagagc    360
              ggctctatta agatgcctat caacgagccc tacgagcagg gtttgcgcaa atcacaaatt    420
              agcgagtatc tggacttcta tcatgcaccg ggagtgcagc acattgccgt cactacccgc    480
              gatatcattg ctacggtgaa agaactgcgt agccggggca tcgatttcct gcctacgccg   540
              gcctcctact acgctaccct cactgagcgt gtcggcaaaa ttgatgaaga catcgatcaa   600
              ttggctgaac ttggcattct tgtagaccgt gaatccgaag gttacttgct gcagattttc   660
              accaagccgg tggaagatcg tcctaccctg ttctttgaaa tcattcagag aaagggcgct   720
              aaaggcttcg gtaaaggtaa tttccaggct cttttcgaat ctatcgagag ggaacaggaa   780
              aatagaggca atctctagac tgctgaaagc aaatctgggc cggggcggcg ctataatcaa    840
                                                  Page 71

<removed-date>
              tagcgttgtc ccggagcagc agtggcgcct gacgtactca ataatcttga tgaccatatc    900
              agacaggcca ggcatgctgt cgagtttctg acgtccgatt tttgtcctcc tgtaattgac    960
              agcatcgagt ttttgagctc gtctctggcg gctcagatgg tggcccgaga tccttattgg 1020
              ccg                                                                 1023
              <210>      47
<removed-apn>
              <211>      217
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      47
              ttctccttcg ggctcggcgt gccactcgcc gcgcagtccg acctctccac ggggaacact     60
              gcgcacgcct cacgcctact acgcgcacgc tcgggctctc tctccttcct cttcaccgcg    120
              ccgtacgcgc cgcacgtcgc cgactcggcg accaccgcgt ccctgccctc cttctcggcg    180
              gacgccgcgc ggcgcttcac gggaacccac ggcggcc                             217
              <210>      48
              <211>      1497
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      48
              ggccgaggcc ttcgtcgcga gcgtggacgc cggagcgcgg ccagcctgcg ccccgactga     60
              tctcggccac gggtttggct tcgcggaggt ggagctagcc ggggacagcg ttctccgctt    120
              cgtgagctac ccggacggca ccgacgtgtc cttcctgccg gggttccagg acgtggtgag    180
              ctccggcggg acgccggact tcgggctcac gcggtttgac cacgtcgacg ttaacatccc    240
              ggagctggca cctgtggccg ccaatgttgc cggcttcacc gggttccaca agttctggga    300
              gttcaccgcg gacgacgtgt gcccggaaga gagcggggtg aacggcgtgg tgatcgccaa    360
              caactcagag aacgtgctgc tcagtatctt ggagccggtg ctcggcacca agctgcggag    420
              ccacgtcgag acgttcctgg accaccacgg tggcccaggc atacagcacc tggcaatgac    480
              cagccacgac atccttggcg cgctcaggaa aatccgagct cggtcctcca tgggcgggtt    540
              tgagctcctg ccgccgccgc cggccagcta ctatgacggt gtaaggcagc gcgccgggga    600
                                                  Page 72

              cgtgctgtcg gaagaacaga tcaaggagtg ccaagagctg ggcgtgcggg tggacagagg    660
<removed-date>
              gtatgacgac ggagttgtgc tccaagtctt caccaaaccg gcgggagaca ggtgcgttca    720
              tttttcatgc tcaccaaatc ctctgaattc ctaaccaaaa ctctttcaag attaaatctc    780
              gtcttctccc tcttatatat attcaggcca accttactgt tagagtttat ccaaagaatc    840
              gggtgcatgg tcaaggacga gaaccagcag gaataccaga gaggtggatg tggcgggttt    900
              gccaaaggga acgtttctga actcatcaag gacattgagg acaataataa taagactatc    960
<removed-apn>
              gatgctcccg caagccaggc ttgatgacaa tacaagatga tgcacccggt actattactg 1020
              ctagatcata cctggcgcct tgctgcggga acgcacaagt atatctttag aaaataattg 1080
              taatgaaagt gacattgggt gcaactgata ataagagcca aagttatcat attttatcaa 1140
              ttaatttcag cattttcgag tactcccccc ttttttgaat ttgagtgttt cgtgaacaag 1200
              tgtattaaca atgtaccaga tcgagaacca ttttattatt ttactcatcg ttaccaacgg 1260
              acatatttca gtgaagatta ccgaataagc atttcaaata cgcacaatac ccctaggttg 1320
              ccagtttctt ttttttgtga agaaatagac tctgaaaatt atgtacagac tctgaaagaa 1380
              cataaagtcg taccaaactt tataattggt tggcaccaac aaatagttaa cctgcaatgg 1440
              gtctaacaac aaaggaaacc acctatttga attgggatat tttaattagg atacaat      1497
              <210>      49
              <211>      691
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      49
              cggcggagag cggtctgaac gtggtggtgc tcgccaacaa cacggagacc gtgctcctga     60
              acctcaccga gccggtgcat ggcacgaagc ggcgcagcca gaaacagacg taccttgacc    120
              accacggcgg gccaggcgtg cagcacatcg cgctggccag cgacgacgtg ctgggcacgc    180
              tcaggcagat gatccgggcg gccggggcct ttgaattcct ggaaccgccc ccgcccaact    240
              actacgacgg cgtacggcga cgcaccgggg acgtgctgtc tgaggcccag ataaaggagt    300
              gccaagagct gggcgtgctg gtagacaggg atgaccaagg agttttgcta caaatcttca    360
              ccaagccggt gggagagagg tacctagctc gtcatcgatc tgtcgtctca cttacagtat    420
              tttctttgtg atcgatgatc ccagtaacag taacctacat ttgtcttctc aggcaaacac    480
                                                  Page 73

<removed-date>
              ttttcctgga ggtgatccag cggatcgggt gcatggagaa agacgaggag agcgggagag   540
              agcaccagag gggtggctgc ggcggctttg gcaagggaaa cttccacgag ctgttcaagg   600
              ccgtggagga gtacgagaag tctcttgaag ccaagcttgt ttgtcagtaa cttgggggtg   660
              tgtaatcgtg tgttcatgat gggatacgct a                                  691
              <210>      50
<removed-apn>
              <211>      213
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      50
              ccacgtcgag ttttggtgcg ccgacgcggc ctccgctgcc ggacgattct ccttcggcct    60
              cggagtacca ctcgccgcgc agtccgtcat caccacgggg aacacagcgc acgcctccca   120
              cgtgctccgc tcacgcacag gctctctcac gttcgtcttc agcgctccgt acgcgcggca   180
              ctgcgccgcc gctacggcga cggtgccctc ctt                                213
              <210>      51
              <211>      782
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      51
              tttgggacgg agggagtatt tgttatcggt ccttcgttat catttagtaa aagaactgcg    60
              taaatttgta ggagaagcat ggctcaaaaa tggcattctt ggatggtaat ccacctgaaa   120
              ggctatgtat gcctattgtc aaccacattc agtctttggg tggtgaggtc cgcctgaact   180
              ctcgtattaa aaaaattgaa ctgaaccctg acgggactgt gaagcacttt gcattgagtg   240
              atgggactca aataactgga gatgcttatg tttgtgctgc accaggtgtg atttattttc   300
              aagaatcatg ttttctttac acctgttcag tttaactgac tagcctgtta ttcagttgat   360
              atcttcaagc ttcttgtacc ggaacagtgg agagagatct cttatttcaa gaggctggat   420
              aagttggtgg gagttcctgt catcaatgtt catatatggt gagttgattg aaactattgg   480
              ttctaagtca agacatcttt gtgtttttgg ttcgacttat atggtcctgc ctcatgtgtt   540
              atttcaggtt tgacagaaaa ctgaaaaaca catacgacca ccttcttttc agcaggtatt   600
                                                     Page 74

              cctttcgtca tactcatctt cctcttggca cctagtgcat tttgttgtct tgtattcaga   660
<removed-date>
              tcgggcgtct tcaatcttac ccctacatgc tttgaatgtg tttttgtttg ataccaaata   720
              ccagatgtct cttatgttga ttttgttcac ttctgtttca ggagtcccct tttaagcgtc   780
              ta                                                                  782
              <210>      52
              <211>      2009
<removed-apn>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      52
              cagaggtgct tcacaagcag cagtgtccag ctgctgaaaa gtagttctcc aacgagcgca    60
              ggtttggcgt ctcttggctc aaggaataga gggaaaaaat cacgccgtgg gcttgctgct   120
              ctgcaggtta agatttcgtc cctgttcgga aaataaagtg gtttctctat tttatctcac   180
              cacagccgtt tcttgtgaag taattgtttg cattttctgc aggttgtttc ccaggattta   240
              ccaagacctc cactggaaaa cacaattaac tatctggaag ctgggcagct ttcttcatct   300
              tttagaagca gtgaacgacc cagtaaacca ttacaggtcg tgattgctgg tgcaggtctg   360
              atgtaactcc tggactagaa catatatgaa tttcacaaat tagatacccc cctgagtgaa   420
              gcacaaactg cctcttagcg ttactcgtct ctggtgtgaa ttgtgcagga ttggctggac   480
              tatcaactgc aaaatatcta gcagatgctg gccataaacc catattgcta gaagcaagag   540
              atgttttggg cggaaaggtc tgatagtttc ttacatctgt tgcttatctc atctctaaaa   600
              ttgtgctggt tatttaatct gacttttcag ttgctgtcgt cattctgagt agctcacctt   660
              caccattatt gttgcttgat tgcttctatc gttgtatgcc ttgaacagtt agctgcttgg   720
              aaggatgaag atggtgattg gtatgagact ggtcttcata ttttctgtaa gttacggtac   780
              ttccttgttc ctttgtgccc tgtgtatagc gtgtttccac tggcagtgta tagatagtat   840
              ttgatgcgtc agacaaatat ctacataata ataagataga acaccttgag taaagtacaa   900
              aatgatcttt gaggagccac attgaggttc tgaaattgca aattagtgaa gagtttcata   960
              ccgtcaattt tttaggttgc ttgcatttta ttaatgggcc ttattctctt aataatattt 1020
              ttagtgggtt tttttttgcg tgaccgtatg aaaacatata gcttaaattt caatgttcca 1080
              tacatcgttg ttggcatggt tgaatatttc ttttgtctat aaattctctt ctaccagcat 1140
                                                  Page 75

<removed-date>
              ttcctccctg ccagtagctt gtgtacggta ttcattctgt gcatgtatgt aaccatatgt 1200
              ttttttttgg gttttaagtt ggagcttatc ccaacgtaca gaatttgttt ggtgagcttg 1260
              gtattaatga tcgcttgcaa tggaaggaac actctatgat atttgccatg ccaaacaagc 1320
              caggagaata cagccgtttt gatttcccag aggttttgcc agcgccttta aacggtaaga 1380
              tcatacatag ccctggtgtt gcttaataga tgaaagaatg gcaagaaaac ttaggaatgc 1440
<removed-apn>
              atcctagtgt tagttctttc attttgctaa tatttgaatg caactagtgg ggtatattag 1500
              tgcaaacaac attgtcatgg ccatccagct gttctcttcc catcaatgtc agtttatcat 1560
              tgattatgca tgtatttaac aggaatatgg gccatactga agaacaatga aatgcttact 1620
              tggccggaga aggtgaagtt tgctattgga cttcttccag caatgcttgg tggccaagct 1680
              tatgttgaag ctcaagatgg cttaactgtt tcagagtgga tggaaaagca ggtatgagcc 1740
              caccaagtca gttagactca tctctttgta ctgaacacat agccgtctca attcacactt 1800
              gatatatgag gatatgttgt aacgcgatat tgctgccttc cttcttttgt tatattttta 1860
              ggaagaagcg tggctaggtc cataaatgaa actatatgct caagtttcca tacttttttt 1920
              ccacccagcc cttctgtatg caatgtaggc ttaagtaatg cttatagttc tattaatctt 1980
              gtaagaaaat cccaagtgca caacgatgt                                     2009
              <210>      53
              <211>      1173
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      53
              ttaaccagaa ttgtactttg aggactattg accaaaggcc caaatgcttt tgctaagaag     60
              gaattcatta gtgaacttaa aattatagaa acctttggca ttgcaaattg tagttatcaa    120
              ttactgaagt gtagcatttt tttcattgct aacatgtcag ttggctgttg atttcgtgaa    180
              tcattttagt ttgaataact gaataaccgt gctagcttaa ctgaaagaac gaaggacatg    240
              gatgcatact cgtaatttta attttccctt gttctttaac tctatgcagg agtattatga    300
              tccagaccgt tcaatgctgg agttggtctt tgctccagca gaggaatgga ttggacgtag    360
              cgacgctgaa atcatcgaag caaccatgca agagctagcc aagttatttc ctgatgaaat    420
                                                  Page 76

              tgctgctgat cagagtaaag caaaaattcg taaataccat gttgtgaaga cgccgaggtg    480
<removed-date>
              aggacatttt gctaacaccc atcctgttga ttaatcaaaa ggacacctga tgtggtcttg    540
              ttctcttaca ctgtttatat ttttctggct cgctgttaca gatctgttta caagaccatc    600
              ccagattgtg agccttgccg acctctgcaa cgatcaccga tcgaagggtt ctatctggct    660
              ggtgattaca cgaagcagaa atatttggct tccatggagg gtgcagtttt atccgggaag    720
              ctctgtgccc agtccatagt ccaggttctg gttgcacata gatgagtcaa acttctattg    780
<removed-apn>
              ttgtgttggt gcgttatggt atggcattat tgtggtctaa tcacctctct gcttgcagga   840
              ttctaaattg ttgtcccgta ggagccagga aagcctgaag acaaaatccg aagttcccgt    900
              cgcttcctag gtgtatttag ttagcacaca attcattctt agcacattct gtggtatttt    960
              cacactgttg tagagttgaa caggtgattg agctgatatc catattgtga aaaaggaaat 1020
              ctgtaaaacg agaagctgca taaaaacagc tctgatccat atagcaattc ttacgttaga 1080
              cctttccgga aggcaaaagt gataaaaaaa aaagggatct tagatattat cttcgtttgc 1140
              tacaattggg aactggatca ttaaccgctt act                                1173
              <210>      54
              <211>      1174
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      54
              ttattcaaaa tagcaattag acatgtgttt ctattctcat tttaatttcc tttttcttat     60
              ttgtaataca gatgtttctt tcttttgttc ttctcaataa tggagtcata tggtgtctga    120
              tacagttatt taatcagcac agggtgttcc tgatcgagtc aacgatgagg tttttattgc    180
              aatgtccaag gcactcaatt tcataaaccc tgatgagtta tccatgcagt gcattcttat    240
              tgctctaaac cgatttctcc aggtacaacc caattactct attcctcctg gagagatagc    300
              tacatatttg caaaatatct agtatttgtt atttcggtcc ttcgttatca tttagtaaaa    360
              gaactgcgta aatttgtagg agaagcatgg ctcaaaaatg gcattcttgg atggtaatcc    420
              acctgaaagg ctatgtatgc ctattgtcaa ccacattcag tctttgggtg gtgaggtccg    480
              cctgaactct cgtattaaaa aaattgaact gaaccctgac gggactgtga agcactttgc   540
              attgagtgat gggactcaaa taactggaga tgcttatgtt tgtgctgcac caggtgtgat    600
                                                     Page 77

<removed-date>
              ttattttcaa gaatcatgtt ttctttacac ctgttcagtt taactgacta gcctgttatt    660
              cagttgatat cttcaagctt cttgtaccgg aacagtggag agagatctct tatttcaaga    720
              ggctggataa gttggtggga gttcctgtca tcaatgttca tatatggtga gttgattgaa   780
              actattggtt ctaagtcaag acatctttgt gtttttggtt cgacttatat ggtcctgcct   840
              catgtgttat ttcaggtttg acagaaaact gaaaaacaca tacgaccacc ttcttttcag   900
<removed-apn>
              caggtattcc tttcttcata ctcatcttcc tgttggcacc tagtgcattt tgttgtcttg   960
              tattcaaatt gagtgtcttc aatcctaccc ctacatgctt tgaatgtgtt tttgtttgat 1020
              accaaatacc agatgtccct tatgttgatc ttgttcactt ctgtttcagg agtccacttt 1080
              taagcgtcta tgcagacatg tcagtagcgt gcaaggtact aactcaagga gttattaata 1140
              ttgcatagat actaatatga ggcatgtgat cctg                               1174
              <210>      55
              <211>      9193
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      55
              caacaaggat gacatcgccg acgagatctt ctcggtgtca ctcttcagag atcccacact     60
              gaagtgagac tgtgattcag aaacatggaa tcattatggg ccgaaataca ttcagtcttg    120
              gaggtttact tgtttgaacc gaatgttcct acctcgaaga atgtggttct tgtgactgcc    180
              cagtagaaca gcaccgtcac cagtgcgagg tacgtcccta tgacaacccc ggttgcgaag   240
              atctcgttca acctccagct atccggtctc cgcgatggct tcactcgatc cttcgatatc    300
              gccatgatag tccctgatca cggtgacaca tcgataacat tgcgagctat tagcatcggt    360
              tccggatgca gcaagcctca ttctcacatg ataagttcag agttactagt gcattaccat    420
              cgttcagtat ggctatgatc aggaccataa atggaggaaa atcgtattcc catattgacg   480
              ccagaagaac aaacccaagc tgcaaccgta caagacacag attagtgcag tgcctattga   540
              tcaccagatc attatcagat tcctgcattc ttaccactat ccgtatagtg atggacactg   600
              cataaatctg cgtcggtaag gcataaatcg tcagaagcaa aattgtactg gtacaagaac   660
              acgaagcgat agaaactgaa ctcaaatcta ccgtgtagtt cttcatgcgc tggaagatgg   720
                                                  Page 78

              tgcggctggt gaggacggcg gagacgatga cgctgagacc gggctccgtg agcacgatgt   780
<removed-date>
              cggcggcggc cctggcggcg tccgtcgcgt cggatactgc gatgccgatg tcggccttct   840
              tcagcgccgg cgcgtcgttc acgccgtcgc ccgtcatccc gcacacgtgg ccttgcgcct   900
              gcaggatccg cacgatctcg tgcttgtgct ccgggaacac gcccgcaaac ccgtccgcgc   960
              tctccacgag ctcctccacc ggagccgccg cccgatcgcc accgcggccg aacagcgcct 1020
              ccgacgggtg catgttggtc cctgtcccga ggcgccggcc tgtctccttg gcgatggcca 1080
<removed-apn>
              ggtggtcgcc ggtgaccatc ttcacgcaca cgccgagatc cagtgccttg cggatggtgt 1140
              cggcactgtc gtgccgcggc gggtcgaaca gcggcagcaa gccgcagaag acccacggcc 1200
              cgccatggcc gtgccttgat ttctccggga cctcctgatc tcagtcatca aatgacggtg 1260
              cttcagaatt tagactacag tgtttcactt ggtgctacca gactactact tgaactacta 1320
              tgagtctgat attacttaat tacaagtacc tggtaagcaa ctgctagtga tcggaggccc 1380
              ctctccgcaa atctgttgac gacacgctcc accttctcgg cgatgtcatc cttgttgtag 1440
              cacaggttga ggatctgtaa gatgatcaaa gtcagatcag agatgttcta ggctatggct 1500
              aaacactgta aataaagtcc cattttgttg acagttagca tttagcagca ctgagataca 1560
              ctgatgaatt tcttcaacag gtggagagga gtacctgctc agcagcacct ttgctgaccc 1620
              ggaaccaatt gccaccataa tcaatgtatg ttatcgccgt ccttttgtcg acgggattga 1680
              atgggagaaa gtgaacttca gtgatgttag cgcgtgcctg acgatgaaca ggtaacgtcc 1740
              gtgaaccatt attaatgtgc aggctcagat caagtgaaac agattcagaa cctctttggg 1800
              atcagcaagc atgtttatga tggccatgtc gatagcatct tggttctcca ctcttgatgc 1860
              tcttgcagcc aacaggataa tcatgtccct gtccattcct ccgctgaaaa cctgaactta 1920
              ccaaaatgat ggatggataa gctttgcatg aaaaccgtta cactgcataa tttttaaaat 1980
              ttgaaaggtg actatactcc ttttttaggt gcaaagggaa gcacctcgat taggtttttg 2040
              tcgacagtaa gatggttgac agtgagcgtt ccggttttgt cacagcagag aacatccatt 2100
              cctgccatct cctcaatggc tgtcatcctt ttggtgatgg caccctgcaa agtttcagaa 2160
              aaaaatctgt gatccacaat acatatactc tgttaactga acagaggtgg cagcaatata 2220
              tccagacacc acctgttgag ataggtgatg agaacctatt gcaagtgtga ccgacaaaac 2280
              agtcggcatc gcaatcggta tccctccgat cagaagcaca agcacattgt taattccgac 2340
                                                  Page 79

<removed-date>
              ccggtatgac cggtgctgga ccgcgaacat gacgataacc tcgacgatca ccccaaccac 2400
              gatggagcag atacaaaagt tgcctatgca ggtaagaacc tgaaattttc agtaggaaaa 2460
              ttcagctcac cccatagaca cttccgtgca actaatgctc aacacatcaa atgacattct 2520
              agtgtggtga cttgccttct ggaaatggcc aacaacctct gtagagtcca ccaaatgagc 2580
              tgccttcccg aagaaagagc ggaccccggt tgcaatgacg acagcttcga tctcaccatg 2640
<removed-apn>
              cttgcatgtt gaaccagtga atactaggtc gccagtcctt ttggtgacag gtagggattc 2700
              tccagtgaga gctgactgaa atattgaaaa ttaacagtaa gagaccagat cacttgacag 2760
              aacaatcagg cctacacggt aaatgtgatt gcctgatcaa ttttgagaga atccccctcg 2820
              agcagtcgcg catctgcagg gacaatgtca ccaagcctga tgctgatgat gtccccgggt 2880
              accaatacag aagcatccag ctcttgccat ttcccatctc taagaacctg cattcacacc 2940
              aaggcatggt cagacaaaat caatgcatca tcacttgcat gctattccta caaacctttg 3000
              ttttaggcgc caagcgggcc atgagacaag ccgcggcatt gcctgcgttg ttctcctcca 3060
              cgaagctgat cgttgagttg atgaaaagaa ggcagacgat tcccacgaag tcttcccagt 3120
              ccggaccctg actctgaaga aataagaaag caacaccaaa taattccacc actcgtcttc 3180
              tgttaaacaa tagtgcattt cccctgaaaa ttcagagact ttcttgactg aaccggcagc 3240
              agaagatagc atagtatcag tgtacttaca cccccatttg ccaagaccag tgccatgatt 3300
              gctgctgcct ccattaccca tgacagtggg ttccacatga agctgatgaa cttgagaacc 3360
              ttgttctcct gtcagaaata tgttttttta aattaggaat tcaggacagg taaacagaga 3420
              gatagtactt agtagtatag atggtgaatt tacacgcttc tcctctagtc ggtttgcgcc 3480
              gaacagctgc agtcgttccg cgacatccgc tgaagagagt ccactgcggg acgtgctcag 3540
              ctgctcaaag acgtcttcca ggggcaggtt cccctgctca cacaccgttg tcatgaacgt 3600
              catttgcaca caatgctggg agtatgaaca ttgcagtccc tatcctgact gatgaaacta 3660
              acttaccaga tcaatgtctt cggtgcagaa actctcaggt ccaagcaacg gttttcccaa 3720
              cccgccatca tccatgcctg cagcttctgg acggcacgaa ggtctgcaag gttcatcgat 3780
              cggattagga agagaactgc acgtctgcgg atttgtttca agaaaaatat ttggggagac 3840
              gaagtgtgac gcgggatgga agaactcacc gttcaagtct tctagaatct ggtggaatgg 3900
                                                  Page 80

              agtcgctagt gtactgttgg caatgtattt tggtggttac tgtcgatgag gagtgaagag 3960
<removed-date>
              ggaggggagg ttggctgcta ccctttttcc cgcgttttgg gagcatggct cgtccaagcc 4020
              caaccaccat tcaaactttc cacggcagtg agcagacggt cgcttcaaac caaccggtcg 4080
              agtggaagtg tggaacagca ccgtagcggc ttcacagctc cgaaatacct ctcccatcgt 4140
              gcttgcatct cagaactttg agttaattgc aaaaacataa ttatggctag attttccaaa 4200
              accaccggtt tctttttttt tccaaaaaaa ccaccttcca agtgtaataa ttgttttttc 4260
<removed-apn>
              agaaaacacc aaattgacac catttttgag cggtggcgcc cactataagc aatgacggag 4320
              taccaaatat tcacacattt ttaacggaga agttaaaaca aacatagggc ccaccgctca 4380
              cacttcaact atatcttcct cctacacatg ctggaatttg gggcatttgg tctttggccc 4440
              atggcccatt atcaaattct gaaactcaca tgacccattc caaaaatcag tgacaacact 4500
              agtgggggct aaaatttagt cccacattgc tagttgagag agagttggag tggtatataa 4560
              ggtggactgt tctagtccta gtaagtgagt gagaagagag agagcccacg cgcactcctc 4620
              ctcctctgct gcccggcgta gatgcaatcg atttgtcttg tttagatgtg atttgttcat 4680
              ctaccttact agtctgcacg attagtttac ttgttatttt catagtcatg atttatcaat 4740
              tacttgtacg gattatttca tatggatatt ttcttatata ttcaacaaca cattccctct 4800
              ttaactcttg gttcccctcc ctccactact cttgggccgc tgcttcgccg atcccagcag 4860
              tcgcgccacc atattctaca ccagcgtcca aaaacaaacc tttccacgtc gcttgtctta 4920
              aaggtgaaat gatcgaaaag gtcgactaga gggggtgaat aggaaactgc atatttgtaa 4980
              tgttttttct taaatttacg gacaacaata atataggttt tctagatatg gaactaggtg 5040
              acaacaatct atatgcaaga tacaattagc tcaacaaaat cgacaagata ataggctagt 5100
              gaacaaataa gtaaaggcaa ggatgtgaaa tgaccacaca gggagacgta tatgtatccc 5160
              gaagttcaca tccctagagg tgcagggtag tctctattgg aggatgtgcg gaggcaaaat 5220
              gccccctcaa caccgcaaat gccccatctt cttctccttg tgactttcac acaaggaaaa 5280
              tgcctcaatc tactaatagt acgcttgaag gtagtcacca aacctttata aacttgttcg 5340
              gagccactcc acacccttga gtctcccgaa gcttgcccaa cgcacaatct acaaagtaat 5400
              ggcgcctaga caatctcctt ccttctacgg agcccaaaca ccaagagtaa ccagattcat 5460
              aaagaaaaaa acaaaggaaa tcgtatatcc tttgatgaag tggtagatgt aagtatgctc 5520
                                                  Page 81

<removed-date>
              tatcttttcg taaaataaac atgattcaag tgttgggagc gagatcacaa agtttcgtac 5580
              tttgcaacaa tatatgagag actaatggag tttttttttt gagagagaga ctaatggagc 5640
              agtctcacct tcgtgaggta gaagatgggc ttatatattt ggggcaaaaa tccaattcta 5700
              ggcccgatgg tttcggggga aaccctagcg gctcgacttc ttgatagtaa ttcatataat 5760
              ttatttcatt gattcatccg cactaaattt aactcgggta tgaaaacata aatccaattc 5820
<removed-apn>
              agcatttggg gaagaatcct ccactttttc tttgcacaat caaacgttca tgcaatcttt 5880
              gtagttcgcg tgttttccat atcttacttt gttttgctct aaatacttat cgcgagttca 5940
              gtaaatcacg acataattca gcctaaattt tagctaagtc tacaacacac atatttagag 6000
              ctgaaggagt acaacaaaag aggctcaagt attttaagcc ggcgaaattg gtgttgaacc 6060
              ggccggtgtg ctcagctgaa ccgtgcgaag tgcggtatat tccagggaaa acgtagagcg 6120
              cagcaggcgc caaacggcat cctccgccac cacatcttct tcgcctcagt gatcccctcc 6180
              gctttgtcgc tttcccaccg ccccaaaacc tccaactcca gccggcgacg agccttatcc 6240
              cgcaccataa atataccctc cgcgctccca ttcccctccc gttgacccaa gcctcgccgc 6300
              tccctctccg cctacggtaa gcctcctccg cgcgcgcacc ttcctgcacg aacccgctgg 6360
              ctgcgggtgg ggctaatcct ccgcgccgcc gcggttccag ttcctcgttt tttcggattg 6420
              gtgctctagt aggaagaatt cgcgttgggg tggggtgggg attagctttg gaattgggga 6480
              ttttctcagg gtttatagga gtactttaga ggcgttggaa attcccgatt gactggaaaa 6540
              atcgacgcta ggcttaccac taaggctgca tatgcttgat tattctaatt catttgctta 6600
              ctgtacagcc acacagatcc cagttgccca tttcatgcat tatttgttca gcaaattact 6660
              tgaatgaacc acaactcagg gaattattta gttaataatg aactcatgtt tctactgtaa 6720
              aaataaatgg atcccttaag cctatcatat ccggttgaac ttacactata caactgccct 6780
              gctccttctg tctttacttt tatgccgcat ttccacgaat tcaaagacca caccacgttc 6840
              agtggatcga attctggctt ctcagcaaat tgtgactttt gtttaccaag ttatgctagt 6900
              ctcgatcagc cgacccgtga cacctggctg ccattcatac cagagggcct cgtcatgaat 6960
              tgctcttctt gactatgcag ttctcttccc acgctcaatc gttgactaaa ccagggctga 7020
              caagaatcta ccagcggttg cttcattatg gataccggct gtttatcatc tatgaacata 7080
                                                  Page 82

              actggagctg cgcaagtgcg gtcctttgtg gggcaacttc atacacagag gtgcttcaca 7140
<removed-date>
              agcagcagtg tccagccgct gaaaagtagt tccccaacga gcgctggctt ggcgtctctt 7200
              ggctcaagga atagagggaa aaaatcacgc cgtgggcttg ctgctctgca ggttaagatt 7260
              tcgtccctgt tcggaaaata aagtggtttc tctattttat ctcaccacag ccgtttcttg 7320
              tgaagtaatt gttggcattg tttgcaggtt gtttcccagg atttaccaag acctccactg 7380
              gaaaacacaa ttaactatct ggaagctggg cagctttctt catcttttag aagcagtgaa 7440
<removed-apn>
              cgacccagta aaccattaca gatcgtgatt gctggtgcag gtctgatgta actcctggac 7500
              tagaacatat atgaatttca caaattagat acccctttga gtgaattaaa ttgcctctaa 7560
              gcgttactac tctctgacgt gagttgtgca ggattggctg gactatcaac tgcaaagtat 7620
              ctagcagatg ctggccataa acccatatta cttgaggcca gagatgtttt gggtggaaag 7680
              gtttgataat ttcttacatc atttcttatc taatctctaa aattatactg gtaacttaat 7740
              ctgagttttc atttgttgtc atcattctga atagctcacc ttcactttta ccattattgt 7800
              tgcttgattg cttctatcct tgtgtgcctt gaacagttag ctgcttggaa ggatgaagat 7860
              ggtgattggt atgagactgg tcttcatatt ttctgtaagt tatgatactt cctttgtact 7920
              ctgtgtatag gttatatcca ttggcagtgt acagatagta tttgatgcct cagacaaata 7980
              tgtacacaat aataagatag aacaccttga gtgaagtaca aagtgatttt tgaggagcca 8040
              cattgaggtt ctgaaattgc aaataagaga agagtttcat actgtcaaat ttttaggttg 8100
              tttgcatttt attaatgggc ctcattctct taataatatt tttagtgggt tttttgcgtg 8160
              actgtatgaa aatatataag ggattcacgc atacaatagc ttagatttta atgttccata 8220
              catcattgtt ggcctggttg aattcttttt tgtctataaa ttctcttcta ccagcctttc 8280
              ctccctgccg gtagcttgtg tacggtactt ctcattctgt gcatgtatgt aaccatatgt 8340
              ttttttttgg gttttaagtt ggagcttatc ccaacgtaca gaatttgttt ggtgagcttg 8400
              gtattaatga tcgcttgcaa tggaaggaac actctatgat atttgccatg ccaaacaagc 8460
              caggagaata cagccgtttt gatttcccag aggttttgcc agcgccttta aacggtaaga 8520
              tcatacatag ccctggtatt tgcaatggaa ggaacactct atgacaatgt tgcttaatag 8580
              atgaaagaat ggcaagaaaa tttaggaatg cacctagcgt tagttctttc attttgctaa 8640
              tatttgaatg caactagtgg ggtatattag tgcaaacaac attgtcatgg ccatccagct 8700
                                                  Page 83

<removed-date>
              gttctcttcc catcaacgtc agtttatcat tgattatgca tgtatttaac aggaatatgg 8760
              gccatactga agaacaatga aatgcttact tggccggaga aggtgaagtt cgctattgga 8820
              cttcttccag caatgcttgg tggccaagct tatgttgaag ctcaagatgg cttaactgtt 8880
              tcagagtgga tggaaaagca ggtatgagcc caccaagtca gttagactca tctctttgta 8940
              ctgaacacag ctgtctcaat tcacacttga tatatgagga tatgttgtaa cgcgataaat 9000
<removed-apn>
              tgctgccttc cttctattgt tatattttta tgaagaagtg tggctaggtc cataaatgaa 9060
              actatatgct caagtttcca tacttttttc cacccagccc ttctgtatgc aatgtaggct 9120
              taagtaatac ttatatttct attaatcttg taattaaatt ccaaatgcac aacgatgtgc 9180
              tacctcctcc cct                                                      9193
              <210>      56
              <211>      1573
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      56
              tttggctaag aaggaatcat tattgaactt aaaattatag atacctttgg cattgcaaat     60
              tggagttatg aattactgaa gtatagcatt tttgtcattg ctaacatgtc cgttggctgt    120
              tgatttcgtg aagcatttta gttagaataa ctgaataacc gtgctagctt aactgaaaga    180
              acgaaggaca tggatgcata ctcgtaattt tattttttcc ttgttcttta actctatgca   240
              ggagtactat gatccagacc gttcaatgct ggagttggtg tttgctccag cagaggaatg   300
              gattggacgt agcgacgctg aaatcatcga agcaaccatg caagagctag ccaagttatt    360
              tcctgatgaa attgctgctg atcagagtaa agcaaaaatt cgtaaatacc atgttgtcaa    420
              gacgccgagg tgaggacatt ttgctaacac ccatcctgat gattaatcaa aaggacacct   480
              gatgtggtct tgttctctta cactgtttat atttttctgg ctcgctgtta cagatctgtt   540
              tacaagacca tcccagattg tgagccttgc cgacctctgc aacgatcacc gatcgaaggg   600
              ttctatctgg ctggcgatta cacgaagcag aaatatttgg cttccatgga gggtgcagtt   660
              ttatccggga agctctgtgc ccagtccata gtccaggtaa atgctctcca cggttttggt   720
              tgcacataga taagtcaaac ttctattgtt gtgttggtgc gttatggtat ggcattattg   780
                                                  Page 84

              tggtctaatc acctctctgc ttgcaggatt ctaaattgtt gtcccgtagg agccaggaaa    840
<removed-date>
              gcctgaagac aaaatccgaa gttcccgtcg cttcctaggt gtatttagtt agcacacaat    900
              tcattcttag cacattctgt ggtattttca cactgttgta gagttgaaca ggtgattgag    960
              ctgatatcca tattgtgaaa aaggaaatct gtaaaacgag aagctgcata aaagcagctc 1020
              tgatccatat agcaattctt acgttagacc tttccggaag gcaaaagtga taaaaaaggg 1080
              atcttagata ttatcttcgt ttgcaacaat tgggaactgg atcattaacc gcttactttt 1140
<removed-apn>
              ctggaattgt gtaaacatta aaacctaagg ttcgtgtcag caaaaggaga tgaaatcatg 1200
              gataatatcc tagcatctaa atcttgtaag caaatgggat ttatgatatt tggcagttgc 1260
              aacaccaagt tgcagttaca aaaaggaggc acagagacaa gccctgagat aaccttctcc 1320
              cgagatagat gacggggcct cagtaagtga gatatttgct gcgctcccta caggaggtat 1380
              tggtagtagt aggctggtat agtaggtcat gcccgagatg ctagtaggtt acatcagttt 1440
              tgggaaggta atggctgtcc tgcatgatgg atttctggaa gatacttgag cttgggggtt 1500
              tccttcgcat acctgaacgg agcatcagaa tagaagatat tatgagaggc ttgaattagt 1560
              agagtactag tat                                                      1573
              <210>      57
              <211>      932
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      57
              ccgctaccat cacggcggcg ctaccgctcc gcctccgggt ccccgcgcgc tcccgacgcg     60
              gacagacgcg ctgcgcggtc gcgagcgacg ccaccgaggc tccggccgcg cccagcgcac    120
              ggctgtccgc ggattgcgtc atcgtgggcg gcggcatcag cggcctctgc accgcacagg    180
              cgctggccac caagtacggt gtcagcgact tgctcgtgac ggaggcccgc gctcgcgcag    240
              gcggcaacat caccaccgtc gagcgccccg acgaggggta cctctgggag gaggggccca    300
              acagcttcca gccctccgac cccgtcctca ccatggccgt acgcatcttg ctcgctttct    360
              ccttcttttc ggattcttgg ggacgtacgt gtacaggata cagatacgat ccctgcatgg    420
              attggttgcg caggtagaca gcggcctcaa ggatgacttg gtgttcgggg accccaatgc   480
              gccgcgcttc gtgctgtggc aggggaagct gaggccggtg ccgtccaagc ccggcgacct    540
                                                  Page 85

<removed-date>
              gcctttcttc gacctcatga gtattcctgg gaagctcagg gccggccttg gcgcgctcgg   600
              cattcgcgcg cctcctccag tttgtgctct gcccgtgctc tctattcttt tgtgaatttt   660
              gattgtcaaa gatggggctg agcgttcccg gcgaaggttt caggggcgtg aggagtcggt   720
              ggaggagttt gtgcgccgca acctgggtgc ggaggtcttt gagcgcctca tcgagccctt   780
              ctgctcaggt aatgtgcagt agtatctgtc tgttctgttc tgctccttgc attgattccg   840
<removed-apn>
              ataacatttc gatatcaatg ttaggtgtgt atgccggtga cccttcaaag ctcagtatga   900
              gggctgcgtt tgggaaggta tggagactgg ag                                 932
              <210>      58
              <211>      244
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      58
              gtgcatatac ctaagttatg ctatcggtaa tgtttttgta tgtccatgtc ccttgtactc    60
              agagatgatc atgaattata gtaattattt catgcttggt cttaagacgt aaccttgtca   120
              tgttctgcat tccttcattt ccaggttggg tagtaaagtc aaactctcgt ggaagcttac   180
              gggcattaca aagtcggaca accagggata tctgttagca tatgaaacac cggaaggagt   240
              tgtt                                                                244
              <210>      59
              <211>      616
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      59
              tttgggaagg tatggagact ggaggagaat ggaggcagta ttattggtgg aaccatcaag    60
              gcaattcagg atagaggcaa gaaccccaaa ccgccgaggg atccgtaagt ggagactgca   120
              attttctatt tagtcagtta actgttccat tagactcgta ttaatttgtt tcaccacttt   180
              tagccgactt ccgacaccaa aggggcagac ggtggcatct ttcaggaagg gtctagccat   240
              gcttccaaat gctatcgctt ctaggtttgt tatcatcact tgtgcacata cctaagttat   300
              gctatcagta tacgaggtga tgtatattgt tcagatagag gggacagctc tgttggtaga   360
                                                    Page 86

              cctactattt gctgaactca ataccatatg aatatcatta catcagcacc caaagtacat   420
<removed-date>
              gtggctcgat tcttatatca gccattctcg cattgttcac ctttttcatc ttgggttcat   480
              ctttttcatc ttgccttttt ggttggggcc tgtactatat aggaaattcc acgagggatg   540
              agttatagag catgtttgtg cttttccgtg tcccttgtac tcggagatga tcatgagtta   600
              tagtaataat ttcatg                                                   616
<removed-apn>
              <210>      60
              <211>      1255
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <220>
              <221>      unsure
              <222>      (1)..(1255)
              <223>      unsure at all n locations
              <400>      60
              catcccaatc tgttcaaata gctggctgtc actggcattt tttttttcaa gaattcaagc    60
              ctggttctac gtaccatttg caaccctatc ttgccaaccg gtagggtgca gttgcaagca   120
              tttactttat ttcacattgc ttagactttc taagttagtc taactatact tccttctgtg   180
              ttcattgaac ttttttcccc tcctgttacc gcagagtgat gcagcagatg gtctctcaaa   240
              attttattat ccaccggttg ctgctgtaac tgtttcatat ccaacagaag ctattagaaa   300
              agaatgctta attgatgggg agctccaggg tttcggccag ttgcatccac gtagccaagg   360
              agttgagact ttaggtattt cgtggaatag aaccttagca tgaaacaact gcgagcatta   420
              ctcttccttc tccattttca tttatcatgg gattggtttt ggtattattc tactaattcg   480
              tggtattttt atgtagggac aatatatagc tcttctctct ttccgaatcg tgctcctgct   540
              ggaagagtgt tacttctgaa ctatatcggg ggtgctacaa atacagggat cgtctccaag   600
              gttctctcga cctgcttgat actcatgtca ttttcttatt gtgtgatacc tggttacggt   660
              attcagttag tgttggtcac ctattcattt atgattaata taaataactg gactgcattt   720
              ttcacctcca gctgcaattg tcaacacaaa tagattaaat ggtttggtta gatgctacat   780
              tcaatctcga tagtattgtt agattttttt tggctggcca tatttatact gatcccattt   840
              tgtttgcaga ctgagagtga cttggtggaa gcagttgatc gtgacctcag aaaaatgttg   900
                                                     Page 87

              ataaatccta cagcaccaga ccctttagcc ttaggcgtcc gagtgtggcc acaagccatt    960
<removed-date>
              ccacagtttt tgattgggca ccttgatcgc cttgatgcgg caaaatctgc cttggccaga 1020
              ggcggctgca gtgggttgtt cctnggagga aactatgtag caggagttgc cttgggccga 1080
              tgcatcgagg gtgcgtacga gagtgcctca gaagtatctg acttcttgac caagtatgcc 1140
              tacaagtgat gaaagaagtg taattcatca ccttgctgca tatttgaggt gcggccagaa 1200
              tcagtaataa ttcagaaaat cttgtaatct tctctactta tacctcctat cgttt        1255
<removed-apn>
              <210>      61
              <211>      883
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      61
              attcataggg tttagctcca catttgtttc agagaacata gcctctacat tgttacacat     60
              gcgactgttt cttgtatagg aaccctcttc tcctctatga tgttcccaga tcgagctcct    120
              aatgaccaac acttatttac aacattcgtt gggggaagcc acaataggga tctcgctgga    180
              gctccaacgt atggaatttc tatatgttga atgttatgct tatttttagg tggatcattc    240
              atattctata cttctgcagg gctatcttga aacaacttgt gacctctgac cttagaaagc    300
              tcttgggtgt agaggggcag ccaacttttg tgaggtaagt gtccaagcgt attgccttaa    360
              tagtagaagt cattgatata tgtcccattt gagcttgtgt tgtggtttgc tatcttctag    420
              gaatttttga atttccgtaa aataaaaatt accactacat gctcattaat ttaacacgga   480
              cattcttcat tacacagaca tatacattgg aaaaatgctt ttcctctgta tggccatgat    540
              tatgattcgg cattggaagc tataggaaag atggagagtg atcttccagg gttcttctat    600
              gcaggcaagt caataaaggc accatattgt taatttgtta ttggtttcca tgaaaatgta    660
              actccatgcc ttcttggtct gccgaaaatg atgctctgat aaaagaaaac atgcatttgc    720
              atctcattag tcttgttgga gttctctaga gcaaaccaga aatagtaatg ccattaagta    780
              acactattat ctgatgttaa cttaaatagt cattgaactt tggttatgtc ttacaggaaa    840
              taacaaggat ggcttggctg ttggaaatgt tatagcttca gga                      883
              <210>      62
              <211>      363
                                                  Page 88

              <212>      DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      62
              ccaaatccaa gttcactccg tcagacaatt ctcacctgct cgatggagaa gaagagggtg    60
              gccatcatcg gcgccggcgt gagcggcctg gcggcgtgca agcacctgct ggagcgcggc   120
              tgccggcccg tcgtcttcga ggcggacacg ctcctcggcg gcgtgtgggc gcggacgccg   180
<removed-apn>
              gactgcacct cgctgcagtc tgagcgggcc atgtaccagt actccgactt cccgtggccg   240
              gactccgtca ccgagatgtt ccccaactgc cgccaggtcg ccgactacct caacgcctat   300
              gcgcgccact tcggcgtgct cgactgcgtc aggttccggc atcgtgtcgt agggatggag   360
              tat                                                                 363
              <210>      63
              <211>      293
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      63
              tttccctgtt ttgacacatt ttcagtgttg ggagcttctt tgaacgccac tttggaaagg    60
              aagtgagttt ttcctggaca aatcttgaat aactagtcat atgtaatcaa aagctctgca   120
              gttcattgta accagacatg gctaagaatt tccttgttta ttacaggttg tcgactatct   180
              tattgatcca tttgtagctg gaacaagtgc aggagatcct gagtcattat ctgtaagtta   240
              ttattgtgtc atgtccaact atttgcatta gttagatata tatttttatt ttc          293
              <210>      64
              <211>      1054
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      64
              acatatatgt accatacttt attttaatga catgaataca gaattggagt aaagatagtt    60
              ttacatttct ccattgcaaa agaggtcctt gattgttaaa ttttatatga ttttgattcc   120
              cataatggaa ccataacttc ttaagatgct ttgttgtact aatttcacta ttatttcata   180
              ttttcatttg gagaatactt taaattattg caacatacta cttctagagc ctacgagcta   240
                                                  Page 89

              ctgcatcaca agtttacagt tatgacttat gggatgggtg actctgattt tgtctcatga    300
<removed-date>
              aatacatgga cgttttcgaa ctctacatgt atagcagaat cctgccttaa ttgatattta    360
              ttatgcaggt ggattatctg ccgttatccc tcatggtaac agcttttaag aaggaagatg    420
              tcaaaagacc cctggaagga tttggggtgt tggtacccta taaggaacag caaaaacatg    480
              gtctgaaaac ccttggtagg ttagctcggc tatgaattgc cattatgtac acaaaacaac    540
              cttgctgtat cagtttactt gtactcatgt ttttgttaac tctgattcat agggtttagc    600
<removed-apn>
              tccatatttt tttcagagaa catagcctct acattgttac acacgtgact gtttcttgta   660
              taggaaccct cttctcctct atgatgttcc cagatcgagc tcctaatgac caacacttat    720
              ttacaacatt cgttggggga agccacaata gggatctcgc tggagctcca acgtatggaa    780
              tttctatatg ttgaatgtta tgcttatttt taggtggatc attcatattc tatacttctg    840
              cagggctatc ttgaaacaac ttgtgacctc tgaccttaga aagctcttgg gtgtagaggg    900
              gcagccaact tttgtgaggt aagtgtccaa acgtattgcc ttaatagtag aagtcattga    960
              tatatgtttc atttgagctt gtgttgtggt ttgctatctt ctaggaattt ttgaatttcc 1020
              gtaaaataaa aattaccact acatgctcat taat                               1054
              <210>      65
              <211>      566
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      65
              gcttatttgg atttttttct aaaatttact atacttgatg tatatcactc tctgatactt     60
              agatagataa ttttgttatc atctgttgaa gcttcaaaag gcaattaaag aggtgcagtg    120
              gtagaccact ggaactactt aggttaaaag tttgtaatct gcatcggtca tgataataag    180
              cattgcactt atcgtgtcca aatagatcta gcagtttcaa cttgacattt acactgcagc    240
              atcttgttat cataaatgag gatagcaact tttgtcttcc cagttatgtt ttttaatctt    300
              tccctttttc ctttcaaatc tgttgttcat gctccttcaa tgctctcagg tatggttcta    360
              tcattgctgg tgccatcttg tctaaactaa cagctaaagg tgattcgact aagaaaggaa   420
              gggctgtatc aggaaaagga aggaataagc gggtgtcatt ttcatttcat ggtggtatgc   480
              aggtattcat atgatgatat cctgtcattt tatttgttag tgccaaagat ttcaaaggca    540
                                                  Page 90

<removed-date>
              aaccctatta actctgtgcc atttaa                                        566
              <210>      66
              <211>      577
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      66
<removed-apn>
              atgtaccata ctttatttta atgacatgaa tacagaattg gagtaaagat agttttacat    60
              ttctccattg caaaagaggt ccttgattgt taaattttat atgattttga ttcccataat   120
              ggaaccataa cttcttaaga tgctttgttg tactaatttc actattattt catattttca   180
              tttggagaat actttaaatt attgcaacat actacttcta gagcctacga gctattgtat   240
              cacaagttta cagttatgac ttatgggatg ggtgactctg atttcgtctc atgaaataca   300
              tggacgtttt cgaactctac atgtatagca gaatcctgcc gtaattgata tttattatgc   360
              aggtggatta tctgccgtta tccctcatgg taacagcttt taagaaggaa gatgtcaaaa   420
              gacccctgga aggatttggg gtgttggtac cctataagga acagcaaaaa catggtctga   480
              aaacccttgg taggttagct cagctatgaa ttgccattat gtacacaaaa caaccttgct   540
              atatcagttt acttgtactc atgtttttgt taactct                            577
              <210>      67
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      67
              ggaagagccg attctccggc atgtggagcc                                     30
              <210>      68
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      68
              gggcaagtct ggtttccaga ttctgctacc                                     30
              <210>      69
                                                  Page 91

              <211>     30
<removed-date>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      69
              ggagaggctt ctctggtggg caaagagacc             30
              <210>      70
              <211>      30
<removed-apn>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      70
              ggaaaagtta tatcctcttg tgcggcaacc             30
              <210>      71
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      71
              ggagagatac gcactaatgt tgattacacc             30
              <210>      72
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      72
              gggctgttaa tgcaggtaaa catatttacc             30
              <210>     73
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      73
              ggatggttct catgtggttg ctgatacacc             30
              <210>      74
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
                                                 Page 92

<removed-date>
              <400>      74
              ggaagtggag gtcatgaaga tgtgcatgcc             30
              <210>      75
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
<removed-apn>
              <400>      75
              ggcctctggc gtcattcact ttgtcatgcc             30
              <210>      76
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      76
              ggactttaag acatatacgt tggctaaccc             30
              <210>      77
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      77
              ggaggagccg atgctccgcc atgtggaacc             30
              <210>      78
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      78
              ggcattgttg cttggaagat gaagctctcc             30
              <210>      79
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      79
                                                 Page 93

              ggctctacaa ttgttgagaa cctgaggacc             30
<removed-date>
              <210>      80
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      80
              ggaagttgag gttatgaaga tgtgcatgcc             30
<removed-apn>
              <210>      81
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      81
              gggaccgaga aggccattct cctggtggcc             30
              <210>      82
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      82
              ggcctggctg gggccatgct tctgagaacc             30
              <210>      83
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      83
              ggagaaggga atcatttttc ttgggccacc             30
              <210>      84
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      84
              ggtggctagt tgtcaggtgg tggggtatcc             30
                                                 Page 94

              <210>     85
<removed-date>
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      85
              ggcgctatgg gctactgcat ttcggcggcc             30
              <210>      86
<removed-apn>
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      86
              ggagttggag cagcagaaaa gggagtttcc             30
              <210>      87
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      87
              gggatacaaa actttcgggg aggccatccc             30
              <210>      88
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      88
              ggttatactt cttgtgtaaa tattaggacc             30
              <210>     89
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      89
              ggtcacattt aggttaacta gatttacacc             30
              <210>      90
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
                                                 Page 95

              <213>     Lolium rigidum
<removed-date>
              <400>      90
              ggctataggt gccacagtct gcctagtacc             30
              <210>      91
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
<removed-apn>
              <400>      91
              ggtattcccc atcgataggg aattcgaccc             30
              <210>      92
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      92
              gggcgggccc cgatgaactt agggaagtcc             30
              <210>      93
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      93
              gggcctcctc acgccgcgcc ctcgccgccc             30
              <210>      94
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      94
              ggttatactt cttgtgtaaa tattaggacc             30
              <210>      95
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      95
                                                 Page 96

<removed-date>
              ggtcacattt aggttaacta gatttacacc             30
              <210>      96
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      96
<removed-apn>
              ggcatttcac gtattacaac agttgttccc             30
              <210>      97
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      97
              gggagatact agatatcggt caaatcttcc             30
              <210>      98
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      98
              ggttatactt cttgtgtaaa tattaggacc             30
              <210>      99
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      99
              ggtcacattt aggttaacta gatttacacc             30
              <210>      100
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      100
              ggcatttcac gtattacaac agttgttccc             30
                                                 Page 97

<removed-date>
              <210>     101
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      101
              gggagatact agatatcggt caaatcttcc             30
<removed-apn>
              <210>      102
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      102
              ggctataggt gccacagtct gcctagtacc             30
              <210>      103
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      103
              gggggtaagt ttcaagaagt ggaagctgcc             30
              <210>      104
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      104
              ggttttcatg aaacttctcc tcgtgactcc             30
              <210>     105
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      105
              ggtgttgttg caggtcctgt gttttttacc             30
              <210>      106
              <211>      30
                                                 Page 98

              <212>     DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      106
              ggccggcgcg gaggaggtcg tgctgcagcc             30
              <210>      107
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      107
              ggcggcaggt tcccgattga gaaggatgcc             30
              <210>      108
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      108
              ggtgcgaatg ttgattgttt cctcggcacc             30
              <210>      109
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      109
              ggttccatca gcagccagta cttgagttcc             30
              <210>     110
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      110
              ggtccaactg ctatcagaga tggtaaaccc             30
              <210>      111
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
                                                 Page 99

              <400>      111
<removed-date>
              gggaccctgg gtgcacccgc aagaccttcc              30
              <210>      112
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      112
<removed-apn>
              ggttccatca gcagccaata cttgagttcc              30
              <210>      113
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      113
              ggtccaactg ctatcagaga tggtaaaccc              30
              <210>      114
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      114
              ggcaagcacg agaccgctga catccacacc              30
              <210>      115
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      115
              ggcctcttgg ctggcctgtt ggagggtacc              30
              <210>      116
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      116
              ggccagccct ttggtcaaat catatttccc              30
                                                 Page 100

<removed-date>
              <210>     117
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      117
              ggtacggtat cgagcaggag tacaccctcc              30
<removed-apn>
              <210>      118
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      118
              ggtgcgcctg gtcagagcct tccaagttcc              30
              <210>      119
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      119
              ggcggcagag tagctaccta ctagctagcc              30
              <210>      120
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      120
              gggggaaggg tgtggggcgt caggagggcc              30
              <210>     121
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      121
              ggcatgtgag ttaaaatgat tttttttgcc              30
              <210>      122
                                                 Page 101

              <211>     30
<removed-date>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      122
              ggcgatcagg ctgctctccg acaatgatcc              30
              <210>      123
              <211>      30
<removed-apn>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      123
              ggcattgcac gggagacata ggaattagcc              30
              <210>      124
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      124
              ggccatcagg ctgctctctg acaatgatcc              30
              <210>      125
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      125
              ggtaattgct gtgcctggtc agagccttcc              30
              <210>     126
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      126
              ggccatcagg ctgctctcgg acaatgatcc              30
              <210>      127
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
                                                 Page 102

<removed-date>
              <400>      127
              ggcatgtgag ttaaaatgat tttttttgcc              30
              <210>      128
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
<removed-apn>
              <400>      128
              ggcctcttgg ctggcctgtt ggagggtacc              30
              <210>      129
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      129
              ggccagccga ttggtcaaat catatttccc              30
              <210>      130
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      130
              ggcggggagc tgcggtcgtg catggccacc              30
              <210>      131
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      131
              ggtacctttt cttttcaccg ccgcctcacc              30
              <210>      132
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      132
                                                 Page 103

              ggtcgcgtcc cccggctttt tcctcatccc              30
<removed-date>
              <210>      133
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      133
              ggccccatca ccgacgcgag ccagctgccc              30
<removed-apn>
              <210>      134
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      134
              ggaacaatgc tgccaagatc ttcgacaacc              30
              <210>      135
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      135
              ggtacggtat cgagcaggag tacaccctcc              30
              <210>      136
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      136
              ggcgactgga acggcgccgg cgcgcacacc              30
              <210>      137
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      137
              ggacaccacg agaccgccga catcaacacc              30
                                                 Page 104

              <210>     138
<removed-date>
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      138
              ggatatcaat ctcaatgtgt ttagtgagcc              30
              <210>      139
<removed-apn>
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      139
              ggcttctatg ttttccaata cttcgatgcc              30
              <210>      140
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      140
              gggctcggcg tgccactcgc cgcgcagtcc              30
              <210>      141
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      141
              ggagccacgt cgagacgttc ctggaccacc              30
              <210>     142
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      142
              ggcccaggca tacagcacct ggcaatgacc              30
              <210>      143
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
                                                 Page 105

              <213>     Lolium rigidum
<removed-date>
              <400>      143
              ggcgcgctca ggaaaatccg agctcggtcc              30
              <210>      144
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
<removed-apn>
              <400>      144
              gggcgggttt gagctcctgc cgccgccgcc              30
              <210>      145
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      145
              ggaggtttac ttgtttgaac cgaatgttcc              30
              <210>      146
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      146
              ggaccataaa tggaggaaaa tcgtattccc              30
              <210>      147
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      147
              ggtaagcaac tgctagtgat cggaggcccc              30
              <210>      148
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      148
                                                 Page 106

<removed-date>
              ggctatggct aaacactgta aataaagtcc              30
              <210>      149
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      149
<removed-apn>
              ggttgcaatg acgacagctt cgatctcacc              30
              <210>      150
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      150
              ggcgcccact ataagcaatg acggagtacc              30
              <210>      151
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      151
              ggagaagtta aaacaaacat agggcccacc              30
              <210>      152
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      152
              ggatatgttg taacgcgata aattgctgcc              30
              <210>      153
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      153
              ggttggggcc tgtactatat aggaaattcc              30
                                                 Page 107

<removed-date>
              <210>     154
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Lolium rigidum
              <400>      154
              gggggtgcta caaatacagg gatcgtctcc              30
<removed-apn>
              <210>      155
              <211>      30
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Lolium rigidum
              <400>      155
              ggttacggta ttcagttagt gttggtcacc              30
                                                 Page 108

