   ABSTRACT
   A closure for a beverage cup. The closure comprises a lid having a drinking opening
   and a rotatable member in rotatable engagement with the lid. The rotatable member
 5 swivels laterally of the lid between an open and a closed position. The rotatable
   member being adapted to close the opening in the lid when the rotatable member is in a
   closed position. The closure also comprises a vent in the lid that vents into a void under
   the rotatable member. When the rotatable member is in the closed position the void is
   sealed to an outside of the closure and when the rotatable member is in the open
10 position the void is open to the outside.

     1/13
           10
          20
           FRO
FIGURE 1A

                                                 1
                                      A BEVERAGE CUP
           This divisional application derives from earlier Australian patent application no.
 5 2014271199, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.
           The present invention relates to a closure for a beverage cup, and various
   features of a beverage cup.
10 BACKGROUND
           Most coffee outlets across the world provide coffee lovers with coffee beverages
   served in disposable paper cups. There is a resurgence in reusable beverage cups with
   the recognition that disposable cups create unnecessary wastage and in seeking a more
15 sustainable attitude users are bringing their reusable cups to cafes requesting that they
   be used in place of disposable cups. While the advantages to reduced wastage are
   obvious, reusable coffee cups suffer from problems including an inability to maintain
   the high temperatures of tea and coffee for a prolonged period of time or the transfer of
   uncomfortable heat from the beverage to a user's hand. In addition, beverage cups
20 filled with iced drinks have a similar problem, as they 'sweat' due to condensation,
   causing the cup to become harder to grip.
           Regardless, with both single use and reusable beverage cups there are problems
   with adequately retaining the contents of the beverage cup in certain circumstances. For
25 example, single use beverage cups often have a lid with a spout or a mouth piece that is
   not salable. In these cups there is often the chance of spillage when walking with the
   cup or balancing the cup when trying to open doors, etc. Also, leakage may occur from
   inadequate sealing between the lid and cup.
30         As such, it would be desirable to overcome one or more problems associated
   with known beverage cups.

                                                 2
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The invention provides a closure for a beverage cup, the closure comprising: a
 5 lid having a drinking opening; a rotatable member in rotatable engagement with the lid,
   wherein the rotatable member swivels laterally of the lid between an open and a closed
   position, the rotatable member being adapted to close the opening in the lid when the
   rotatable member is in a closed position; and a vent in the lid that vents there-through
   into a void located under the rotatable member; wherein when the rotatable member is
10 in the closed position the void is sealed to an outside of the closure and when the
   rotatable member is in the open position the void is open to the outside.
           An advantage of having a sealed void into which fluid enters through a vent is
   that a more reliable seal can be provided. This is due to the fact that the void is sealed
15 rather than the vent, which expands the options available for providing sealing. For
   example, the seal is more readily adapted to withstand the effects of repeated use, such
   as wear from friction. Wear can also be controlled by providing a seal that is of a
   different material to the lid. This reduction in wear in turn maintains the integrity of the
   seal, and allows a smooth rotational movement if the rotatable member.
20
           In addition, by providing a void that is vented, it is possible to have more than
   one vent location. Providing multiple vent locations reduces the likelihood of complete
   blockage of the vent. Also, the manufacturer is able to select a location anywhere inside
   the void for the vent to be positioned.
25
           In a preferred embodiment the void is sealed to an outside of the closure by
   being located on one side of a barrier and when the rotatable member is in the open
   position an access path moves to bridge the barrier to open the void to the outside.
30         The void may be defined by a space between the rotatable member and the lid,
   which space can be sealed against escape of fluid from/to the outside of the closure.
   Sealing of the space occurs when the rotatable member is moved to the closed

                                                  3
   position and is preferably effected by opening and closing an access path between the
   lid and rotatable member. In this embodiment, an access path, bridges across the
   barrier, which in one embodiment is a sealing ridge on the lid, to open the void to the
   outside. Specifically, fluid, and in particular gas, can pass between the void and outside
 5 the closure (when mounted on a beverage cup) by flowing into the access path and over
   the sealing ridge to escape out from under the rotatable member. The flow path is
   reversed for fluid flow into the beverage cup. In some embodiments the access path is
   located on one or the other side of the barrier when the rotatable member is in the
   closed position. The access path may be defined by a recess on an underside of the
10 rotatable member. In a preferred embodiment the recess is a dome. In some
   embodiments the barrier is a sealing ridge and the access path bridges the sealing ridge
   when the rotatable member is in the open position.
            Preferably the sealing ridge is a continuous loop, or part loop, that extends
15 around the vent and the loop contains an enlarged path that in the closed position of the
   rotatable member, which corresponds to the void being sealed, the enlarged path
   encloses the access path within the void so that it no longer bridges the ridge, but is
   contained within the sealing ridge.
20          In one embodiment, the rotatable member engages with the lid at an
   engagement. The vent can be provided at the engagement and through one or more gaps
   between the lid and rotatable member at the engagement. In some embodiments the
   void is annular and extends around the engagement.
25          By having a void that is sealed when the rotatable member is in a closed
   position, the engagement is able to extend all the way through the lid and into the cup
   without creating a leakage point, so long as the engagement is contained within the
   void. In addition, by providing the vent at the engagement the closure effectively
   reduces the number of leakage points (e.g. instead of having a first hole for the vent and
30 a second hole for the engagement, only one hole is required).

                                                   4
            The engagement is preferably a cam engagement between the lid and the
   rotatable member, so that when the rotatable member is rotated to the closed position a
   cam surface at the engagement causes the rotatable member to urge against the lid,
   thereby creating a tighter engagement there between, and consequently a better seal at
 5 the sealing ridge, and also at the plug and drinking opening. In addition, by providing a
   better seal at the sealing ridge there is also provided a better seal for the vent.
            In addition, the sealing ridge may be overmoulded onto the lid, enabling a more
   deformable material to be used for the sealing ridge, to create a better seal at the void.
10
           A plug is preferably provided on an underside of the rotatable member to plug
   the drinking opening closed.
            In another aspect of the beverage cup described herein there is a closure for a
15 beverage cup, the closure comprising: a lid having a drinking opening; a rotatable
   member in rotatable engagement with the lid, wherein the rotatable member swivels
   laterally of the lid between an open and a closed position, the rotatable member being
   adapted to close the opening in the lid when the rotatable member is in a closed
   position; and the rotatable member being engaged with the lid at a cam engagement so
20 that when the rotatable member is rotated to the closed position the cam engagement
   causes the rotatable member to urge against the lid.
            In an embodiment the rotatable member is removeably attached to the lid by a
   bayonette fitting. This allows the rotatable member to be easily attached and detached
25 from the lid. In some embodiments the cam engagement comprises a first cam surface
   on the bayonette fitting. The first cam surface may be on the rotatable member.
   Alternatively, the first cam surface may be on the lid. If the first cam surface is on the
   rotatable member the cam engagement may comprises a second cam surface on the
   bayonette fitting, wherein the second cam surface is on the lid. The cam surface(s) may
30 be in the shape of a wedge.

                                                    5
            Another aspect provides a closure for a beverage cup, the closure comprising: a
   lid adapted to fit over the mouth of the beverage cup, the lid being made of a first
   material and having a drinking opening; a rotatable member in rotatable engagement
   with the lid, wherein the rotatable member swivels laterally of the lid between and open
 5 and a closed position, the rotatable member being adapted to close the opening in the lid
   when the rotatable member is in a closed position; and a second material overmoulded
   on a surface of the lid that provides a seal at the surface.
            The seal could, for example, be a cap seal between the beverage cup and the lid,
10 a plug seal at the drinking opening, or a sealing ridge on the lid. It will be understood
   that one or more of these seals could be provided on a single closure, however that not
   all are required.
            In still a further aspect there is described a boot for removably attaching to a
15 beverage cup, the boot having an annular body that surrounds an exterior surface of the
   beverage cup: the body of the boot having resilient segments spaced around the body.
            In some embodiments the segments comprise a lip adapted to locate into a
   corresponding groove on the beverage cup. This allows the boot to be more effectively
20 retained on the beverage cup.
        There may exist an air gap between an internal surface of the boot body and the
   exterior surface of the beverage cup. The boot may be provided with spacers on an
   internal surface of the boot body to create a consistently spaced air gap between the
25 internal surface of the boot body and the exterior surface of the beverage cup.
            A flexible band may be provided overlying the boot body to retain the segments
   against the cup body. This may be achieved by the flexible band compresses against the
   boot body to retain the resilient segments against the beverage cup. The band may be
30 made from an elastomer. The flexible band may comprise a lip adapted to locate into
   the groove in the beverage cup.

                                                  6
             The boot body may further extend down the sides of the cup and under the base
   of the cup to enclose the cup and create a closed-end air gap. For example, the boot may
   entirely encompasses a base of the beverage cup to enclose the air gap between the
   internal surface of the boot body and the exterior surface of the beverage cup.
 5 Alternatively, the boot body may be open at a bottom thereof, taking the form of a band
   itself, to allow air to flow through the air gap.
             The beverage cup described herein may further be provided with an insulating
   boot comprising: a groove on an exterior surface of the beverage cup; the boot having
10 an annular body that surrounds an exterior surface of the beverage cup: the body of the
   boot having resilient segments spaced around the body. The boot may comprise any of
   the features of the boot described above.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
15
             An embodiment, incorporating all aspects of the invention, will now be
   described by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
             Figure la is an isometric exploded assembly view of a beverage cup including
20 cup components in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
             Figure lb is a cross-sectional exploded assembly view of Figure 1a;
             Figure 2a is an isometric view of the top of a closure;
             Figure 2b is an isometric view of the bottom of a closure;
             Figure 3 is an isometric view of an underside of a rotatable member of the
25 closure;
             Figure 4a is a plan exploded assembly view of the closure;
             Figure 4b is a cross-sectional exploded assembly view along the line A-A in
   Figure 4a;
             Figure 5a is a plan view of the closure with the rotatable member in a closed
30 position;
             Figure 5b is a section view along the line C-C in Figure 5a;
             Figure 5c is an enlarged view of detail "A" in Figure 5b;

                                                  7
            Figure 5d is a section view along the line A-A in Figure 5a;
            Figure 5e is an enlarged view of a detail "B" in Figure 5d;
            Figure 6a is a plan view of the lid with the rotatable member in an open
   position;
 5          Figure 6b is a section view along the line C-C in Figure 6a;
            Figure 6c is an enlarged view of detail "C" in Figure 6b;
            Figure 6d is a section view along the line A-A in Figure 6a;
            Figure 6e is an enlarged view of detail "D" in Figure 6d;
            Figure 7a is an isometric exploded assembly view of a beverage cup including
10 cup components in accordance with another embodiment of the invention; and
            Figure 7b a cross-sectional exploded assembly view of Figure 7a.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
15          Figures la, lb, 7a and 7b illustrate an exploded beverage cup assembly 11
   including a beverage cup 15 having a closure 10 that sealingly closes an upper opening
   18 of the cup 15, a boot 40, 140 for removably attaching to a beverage cup 15, and a
   band 50 further securing the boot 40,140 against the beverage cup. Figures 2a to 6e
   illustrate the closure 10 having a lid 20 and a rotatable member 30 in rotatable
20 engagement with the lid 20.
            Referring to Figures 2a, 2b and 3, the lid 20 has a drinking opening 22 through
   which the contents of the beverage cup may be dispensed. In this example we will refer
   to the contents of the beverage cup as a hot beverage, such as coffee, however it will be
25 understood that any hot or cold beverage could be contained within the beverage cup.
   Preferably the opening 22 will be on a top surface 21 of the lid 20, located towards the
   periphery of the top surface 21. This is to provide easy access of the user's mouth to the
   opening 22, allowing the user to drink directly through the opening 22, rather than
   having to pour the contents into another beverage container before consuming.
30
            The rotatable member 30, which is rotatably engaged with the lid 20, is able to
   swivel laterally of the lid between an open position and a closed position. The terms

                                                  8
   "swivel" and "laterally" are taken to mean that the rotatable member 30 swivels about a
   point in the lid that is co-axial with a longitudinal axis of the cup 15 and which
   movement is lateral of the lid, namely in a plane above the lid.
 5          The rotatable member 30 is removably attached to the lid 20. This attachment
   may be achieved in a number of ways, for example by a push fit. In the embodiment
   shown in the figures the attachment is achieved by a bayonette fitting 24, 34 between
   the lid 20 and the rotatable member 30. In addition, the rotatable member 30 has a plug
   32 on its underside that is adapted to close the opening 22 of the lid 20 when the
10 rotatable member 30 is in the closed position. The lid 20 may also comprise a holding
   area 29 for holding the plug 32 when he rotatable member 30 is in the open position,
   however this is not essential.
            The lid 20 further comprises a vent 25 that allows the interior of the beverage
15 cup 15 to vent into a void 26 under the rotatable member 30. When the rotatable
   member 30 is in the closed position the void 26 is sealed to an outside of the closure
   (and the beverage cup) and when the rotatable member 30 is in the open position the
   void 26 is open to the outside. This ensures that when the rotatable member 30 is in the
   closed position steam from the hot beverage may rise up through the vent 25 and into
20 the void 26, but not leave the beverage cup 15. As such, the steam is trapped within the
   beverage cup assembly 11, minimising heat loss. In contrast, when the rotatable
   member 30 is in the open position, and the void 26 is open to the outside, air and steam
   are able to freely travel in and out of the beverage cup 15 through the vent 25, allowing
   pressure equalisation. Pressure equalisation is important when a user is drinking
25 through the opening 22 as without the vent 25 the beverage will not flow out of the
   drinking opening 22 without air passing back through the opening 22 into the beverage
   cup, or deformation of the beverage cup 15 or closure 10.
            In the embodiment shown in the figures the vent 25 is located at the hole for the
30 bayonette fitting 24 in the lid 20, and specifically may comprise a number of gaps
   between the rotatable member and lid at the bayonette fitting. It is understood that the

                                                   9
   vent could be annular and exist around the entire bayonette fitting. However, it is also
   understood that the vent could be a separate hole formed in the lid.
            The void 26 is defined by an annular space between the rotatable member and
 5 the lid, which space can be sealed against escape of fluid from/to the outside of the
   closure 10. Sealing of the space occurs when the rotatable member is moved to the
   closed position and an underside 39 of the rotatable member 30 contacts a sealing
   barrier, which in the embodiment illustrated is a sealing ridge 28 on the lid surface 21.
   Opening the void is brought about by opening an access path 35 between the lid and
10 rotatable member. The access path can be a recess, for example a dome 36, formed on
   the underside 39 of the rotatable member that provides access over the sealing barrier
   by bridging across, or straddling, the sealing barrier. As shown in the Figures, dome 36
   bridges the sealing ridge 28 on the lid surface 21 to open the void to the outside, when
   the rotatable member 30 is in the open position. Specifically, fluid, and in particular
15 gas, can pass between the void and outside the closure (when mounted on a beverage
   cup) by flowing into the access path, and namely under the dome, and over sealing
   ridge 28, to escape out from under the rotatable member. The flow path is reversed for
   fluid flow into the beverage cup.
20          It is understood that by 'sealed' in terms of the void being sealed, the seal
   created at the void need not be an absolutely perfect gas-tight seal, but need only be
   sufficiently sealed to prevent the transfer of most fluid to an acceptable extent for the
   purpose of beverages.
25          In the preferred embodiment shown in the figure the sealing ridge 28 is a
   continuous loop that extends around the vent 25. The loop contains an enlarged path 31
   that in the closed position of the rotatable member, which corresponds to the void being
   sealed, the enlarged path encloses the access path within the void so that it no longer
   bridges the ridge, but is contained within the sealing ridge. Accordingly, the access path
30 to the outside is closed.

                                                 10
            The sealing ridge 28 may be made from the same material as the lid 20, or it
   may be formed separately as a standard seal, for example, an O-ring. In the embodiment
   shown in the figures the sealing ridge 28 is formed from a different material to that of
   the lid 20 and specifically is overmoulded onto the lid 20. Overmoulding allows
 5 characteristics of different materials to be exploited. For example, the lid may be made
   of a polymer or a copolymer, such as a thermoset or a thermoplastic. More specifically,
   the material may be substantially rigid, such as polypropylene, polypropylene
   copolymer, polyethylene (LDPE or HDPE), acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) or a
   polyamide (e.g. Nylon), allowing a more rigid body structure for the lid 20, while the
10 sealing ridge 28 may be made from a more deformable material, suitable for forming a
   seal for the void. Examples of such overmoulded materials include SantopreneTM,
   InfuseTM and other deformable and/or flexible and/or elastic material including forms of
   silicon and rubber.
15          Overmoulding allows two materials to be joined without the use of adhesives. In
   general, overmoulding utilises an initial substrate, which may or may not have been
   moulded, with a second material being moulded over the top of the initial substrate. The
   overmoulding process generally utilises mechanical interlocks to create a single part in
   which the materials are not separable without first breaking the interlock. The lid 20
20 shown in the Figures represents the initial product, or base substrate, on which
   overmoulding takes place, with the sealing ridge 28 being the overmoulded material.
   The overmoulded result can be seen most clearly in Figures 5c and 6c, which shows the
   overmoulded material, which comprises the sealing ridge 28, extending all the way
   through the thickness of the lid with a mechanical interlock holding it locked in the lid
25 20.
            Referring to Figures 3, 5c and 6c, the rotatable member 30 comprises dome 36
   that acts as an access path when it bridges the sealing ridge 28, when the rotatable
   member 30 is in the open position. As the rotatable member 30 moves to the closed
30 position, dome 36 subscribes a part-circular path around the lid. The rotatable member
   30 rotates approximately a quarter of a circle and is obstructed from rotating all the way
   around by moulded stops 37 in the lid). For most of the rotatable member's rotation

                                                11
   dome 36 bridges across sealing ridge 28, but for a portion thereof dome 36 locates over
   the enlarged path and so the void is sealed.
           This sealing in the closed position may be achieved by having the dome 36
 5 completely on either the inside or the outside of the sealing ridge 28. In the embodiment
   shown in the figures the sealing ridge 28 is designed such that the dome 36 is
   completely within the boundary of the sealing ridge 28 when the rotatable member 30 is
   in the closed position (Figure 5c).
10         It is understood that while the dome 36 has been described interacting with a
   sealing ridge 28 that has been overmoulded onto the lid 20, the sealing ridge could be
   formed together with the lid and from the same material.
           Referring to Figure 6c, when the user drinks from the opening 22 air flows from
15 outside of the cup towards the sealing ridge 28, the air then flows up into the dome 36,
   over the sealing ridge 28, and back down on the other side of the sealing ridge 28 into
   the void 26. From the void 26 the air is then able to flow through the vent 25 into the
   beverage cup 15. To assist the air in accessing the dome 36 the rotatable member 30
   may have a breather gap 38 at the periphery of the rotatable member 30, to allow air to
20 more easily enter the dome 36 in the rotatable member 30.
           Referring to Figures 5e and 6e, the rotatable member 30 is engaged with the lid
   20 at an engagement 60. The void is annular and extends around an engagement 60.
   The engagement 60 is a cam engagement defined by a cam surface 62 at the
25 engagement 60. The cam surface 62 provides a cam relationship between the rotatable
   member and the lid such that when the rotatable member 30 is rotated to the closed
   position the cam surface 62 causes the rotatable member 30 to urge against the lid 20,
   effectively pulling the rotatable member against the lid and enhancing the seals between
   the member and lid, including the seals at the plug.
30
           In the embodiment shown in the Figures, when the rotatable member 30 is
   pulled closer to the lid 20 the rotatable member 30 compresses the sealing ridge 28,

                                                 12
   forming a seal. The cam surface 62 may be provided on either the lid 20 or the rotatable
   member 30, however, in the preferred embodiment, both the lid and the rotatable
   member have camming surfaces. As shown in the Figures, the cam surface 62 is located
   on the bayonette fitting 24. The cam surface 62 is in the shape of a wedge but could
 5 also be an inclinded surface.
           While the embodiment shown in the figures comprises both a cam surface 62
   and a sealing ridge 28, it is understood that the closure 10 could function without the
   sealing ridge 28. That is, the closure 10 for the beverage cup 15 could comprise a lid 20,
10 a rotatable member 30 engaged with the lid 20 at an engagement 60, and the
   engagement 60 having a cam surface 62 at the engagement of the lid 20 and the
   rotatable member 30. In addition, it is also understood that the cam surface 62 could
   function with the sealing ridge 28 whether the sealing ridge 28 was made from the same
   material as the lid 20 or a different material to the lid 20.
15
           When the cam surface 62 causes the rotatable member 30 to urge against to the
   lid 20 the rotatable member 30 will inevitably pull the plug 32 closer/further into the
   opening 22 of the lid 20. This action will aid in ensuring a strong seal at the opening 22
   when the rotatable member 30 is in the closed position.
20
           While the overmoulding process previously described was used to create the
   sealing ridge 28 on the lid 20, it is understood that the process can be used to provide a
   second material overmoulded on a surface of the lid that provides a seal at the surface,
   such as the previously discussed sealing ridge 28, a plug seal 23 to assist in sealing the
25 plug 32 with the opening 22, or a cap seal 27 between the beverage cup 15 and the lid
   20 to assist in sealing the lid 20 with the beverage cup 15.
           It is understood that a second material overmoulded on a surface of the lid that
   provides a seal at the surface would not require all of the above-mentioned features of
30 the preferred embodiment to function. For example, a plug seal 23 would improve the
   sealing abilities of the opening 22 whether the cam surface 62 was present or not.

                                                 13
           In order to increase the insulating capacity of the beverage cup 15 a boot 40,140
   may be removably attached to the beverage cup 15. Referring to Figures la, lb, 7a and
   7b, two versions of a boot are illustrated, namely the 'long boot' 40 and the 'short boot'
   140, which are discussed in more detail below.
 5
           The boot 40,140 has an annular body 42,142 that surrounds an exterior surface
   16 of the beverage cup 15. The body 42,142 of the boot 40,140 has resilient segments,
   which appear as tabs 44,144 in the figures, spaced around the beverage cup 15. In
   addition, the tabs 44,144 also have a lip 45,145 at ends of the tabs that is adapted to
10 locate into a corresponding groove 17, or undercut, on the beverage cup 15. The boot
   40,140 is made of a resilient material, such as polypropylene, polypropylene
   copolymer, polyethylene (LDPE or HDPE), acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) or a
   polyamide (e.g. Nylon). Alternatively, the boot may be made of a metal having resilient
   properties, for example an aluminium boot.
15
           The boot 40,140 is sized such that there is an air gap between the internal
   surface 48 of the boot body 42 and the exterior surface 16 of the beverage cup 15. The
   boot 140 may have spacers 146 on an internal surface148 of the boot body 142 that
   maintain a consistent air gap between the internal surface 148 of the boot bodyl42 and
20 the exterior surface 16 of the beverage cup 15. The spacers 146 are illustrated on the
   short boot 140 but are not present in the illustrated embodiment of the long boot 40.
   Spacers 146 are equally spaced around the circumference of the boot to space the boot
   140 away from the cup's exterior surface to create an air gap between an internal
   surface 48 of the boot 40 and the exterior surface 16 of the beverage cup 15 for an
25 insulating effect. This is achieved by having a substantially closed air gap (as with the
   long boot) or an open air gap (as with the short boot) to allow airflow through the air
   gap to cool the surface of the cup. Insulation works to either retain the heat from the
   beverage inside the cup, and/or to reduce the transfer of heat from the cup through
   conduction to a user's hand. For added insulation the cup may be lined with a reflective
30 film to reduce transmission of radiant heat to the cup's exterior surface 16.

                                                  14
            A flexible band 50 is annular and overlies the boot body 42,142 and compresses
   against the boot body to retain the tabs 44,144 against the beverage cup 15, further
   securing the lip 45,145 in the groove 17. The flexible band also provides and enhanced
   gripping area for the user and may be made out of an elastomeric material such as
 5 silicon or rubber, so that the band is able to repeatedly stretch over the boot body
   42,142 and provide a compression force against the boot body 42,142. The band 50
   may also have a lip 52 adapted to locate into the groove 17 in the beverage cup 15.
            Referring to Figures 7a and 7b, the boot 140 may take the form of a band itself
10 lying under band 50 and be open at the bottom 147 of the boot 140 ('short boot').The
   result is that the hand of the user will be insulated from the temperature of the beverage
   cup 15, as the air is freely able to circulate around the beverage cup 15 and under the
   boot 140. If the boot 140 is open at the bottom 47 of the boot 140 the spacers 146 are
   required to maintain the air gap between the internal surface 148 of the boot body 142
15 and the exterior surface 16 of the beverage cup 15.The spacers 146 also help to ensure
   minimal contact between the boot 40,140 and the beverage cup 15, helping to reduce
   the transmission of heat from the beverage cup 15 to the boot 40,140 through
   conduction. In addition, the spacers are tapered down the cup to provide a smoother fit
   on the cup. The short boot 140 may also have relief structures 149, allowing the boot 40
20 to stretch to accommodate manufacturing variations in the beverage cup 15, such as
   those that may occur if the beverage cup 15 were made from glass.
            In contrast, the boot 40 may entirely encompass the base of the cup and
   therefore the bottom 47 of the boot 40 is closed ('long boot'). In this way, hot beverage
25 is insulated from the outside conditions as the air gap between the beverage cup 15 and
   the boot 40 is enclosed. The air gap significantly reduces heat loss that occurs via
   conduction but radiant heat can still travel through the air barrier. A reflective material
   lining the internal surface 48 of the boot body 42 and/or the exterior surface 16 of the
   beverage cup 15 will reduce heat transfer through radiation. The reflective characteristic
30 in the reflective material may be inherent in the material itself or may be a coating (e.g.
   foil) on a base substrate. Reflective surfaces can significantly reduce the transmission of
   radiant heat through either reflectivity and/or emissivity.

                                                 15
           It is understood that a boot 140 with an open bottom, and a boot 40 with a
   closed bottom, are desirable embodiments, depending on the relative temperature
   difference between the beverage and the ambient surrounding air temperature.
 5
           In one form the beverage cup 15 is made of a polymer material, such as
   polypropylene, polyethylene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) or a polyamide (e.g.
   Nylon). However, in another form the cup 15 can be formed from glass, including all
   exterior grooves 17. Glass is more desirable to drink from by some users. Furthermore,
10 glass is 100% recyclable and can be recycled indefinitely without loss of quality or
   performance. Preferably the glass would be tempered, reducing shard formation if the
   glass is ever broken. In yet another embodiment the cup 15 could be made from metal,
   such as aluminium.
15         Additionally, the band 50 may take the form of a band of cork, where cork
   provides excellent insulating properties. The cork band would be moulded to take the
   form of the exterior profile of the cup, and in particular the glass cup. If the beverage
   cup 15 has a groove 17, the cork band 50 would include a lip 52. The cork band could
   include a plasticizer and may be made from recycled cork.
20
           It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the invention that many
   modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the
   invention.
25         In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
   preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
30 invention.

                                                 16
   CLAIMS
   1.       A closure for a beverage cup, the closure comprising: a lid having a drinking
   opening; a rotatable member in rotatable engagement with the lid, wherein the rotatable
 5 member swivels laterally of the lid between an open and a closed position, the rotatable
   member being adapted to close the opening in the lid when the rotatable member is in a
   closed position; and a vent in the lid that vents there-through and into a void located
   under the rotatable member; wherein when the rotatable member is in the closed
   position the void is sealed to an outside of the closure and when the rotatable member is
10 in the open position the void is open to the outside.
   2.       The closure of claim 1, wherein the void is sealed to an outside of the closure
   by being located on one side of a barrier and when the rotatable member is in the open
   position an access path moves to bridge the barrier to open the void to the outside.
15
   3.       The closure of claim 2, wherein in the closed position the access path is
   located on one or the other side of the barrier.
   4.       The closure of claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the access path is defined by a
20 recess on an underside of the rotatable member.
   5.       The closure of claim 4, wherein the recess is a dome.
   6.       The closure of claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the barrier is a sealing ridge and the
25 access path bridges the sealing ridge when the rotatable member is in the open position.
   7.       The closure of claim 6, wherein the sealing ridge is a continuous loop that
   extends around the vent when the rotatable member is in the closed position.
30 8.       The closure of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the sealing ridge is overmoulded
   onto the lid.

                                               17
   9.        The closure of any one of the preceding claims wherein the vent is provided at
   an engagement between the lid and rotatable member.
   10.       The closure of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the rotatable member
 5 is engaged with the lid at a cam engagement so that when the rotatable member is
   rotated to the closed position the cam engagement causes the rotatable member to urge
   against the lid.
10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/13

