                                  ABSTRACT
A disconnector device for a surge arrester, the disconnector device comprising: a housing
encompassing a cavity; a disconnector unit provided inside the cavity, having a first terminal
that is connectable to the surge arrester, a second terminal that is connectable to ground
potential, a member provided at the second terminal and being fitted to the housing, and a
disconnector cartridge provided in the cavity; wherein the housing forms an inner housing of
a housing unit, the housing unit comprising further an outer housing, and wherein the inner
housing comprises at least one ventilation opening connecting the cavity to an outside of the
inner housing, and wherein the outer housing comprises at least one further ventilation
opening connecting the outside of the inner housing to an outside of the disconnector device
for releasing gases from the operating disconnector cartridge, and wherein the at least one
ventilation opening and the at least one further ventilation opening are displaced against one
another such that a labyrinth with a gas escape path for the gases from the operating
disconnector cartridge is formed. An overload protection assembly, comprising a high voltage
surge arrester and the disconnector device.

                                                     1
       DISCONNECTOR DEVICE FORA SURGE ARRESTER AND A PROTECTION
        ASSEMBLY COMPRISING A SURGE ARRESTER CONNECTED TO SUCH A
                                     DISCONNECTOR DEVICE
   Aspects of the present disclosure relate to a disconnector               device for permanently
 5 disconnecting the current flow in a surge arrester in case of a temporary overvoltage in the
   electric line lasting longer than a few tenths of milliseconds, e.g. longer than lOOms extending
   over a few cycles up to several seconds or more. More particularly, they relate to a
   disconnector device providing for fire hazard protection.
   Technical background
 0 Metal oxide surge arresters are electrical devices installed in electrical grids in order to protect
   other electrical apparatuses from the consequences arising of destructive over voltages. Such
   consequences may result in damages of the electrical system as well as of its components. The
   working principle is based on a strongly nonlinear characteristic of the resistivity of metal
   oxide resistors as a function of the applied voltage. This allows a surge arrester to limit the
 5 damaging effects of a lightning-effected over voltage by draining currents of many kA to
   ground for a short time. In comparison, a surge arrester has, under normal service conditions,
   a leakage current of parts of mA over years of operation.
   The maximum continuous voltage Uc defines the condition under which the arrester can work
   indefinitely. An elevated voltage higher than Uc can be applied for a limited time, which is
 0 specified by the manufacturer. Exceeding this specified time will cause an overload, which
   causes the Metal Oxide surge arrester to reach a thermal limit and to fail, resulting in a short
   circuit fault and in a permanent damage of the surge arrester.
   This failure case is recognized by the international standards IEC 60099-4 and IEEE C62. 11 a
   by specification of a short circuit test. According to the test procedure, in order to prevent
25 damages on the equipment installed close to the surge arrester in the substation, the surge
   arrester has to provide a failure mode without violent shattering of the housing, and shall be
   able to self-extinguish open flames within 2 minutes after the end of the test.
   The problem of conventional assemblies for protecting an electrical grid line against
   temporary overvoltages resides in that the surge arrester suffers irreversible damage in case of
30 a temporary overvoltage in the electric line lasting longer than a few tenths of milliseconds,
   e.g. longer than 100ms extending over a few cycles up to several seconds or more, because
   the surge arrester suffers a thermal overload. The temporary overvoltage is referred to as TOV

                                                     2
   hereinafter such as known of IEC 60099-4:2014; edition 3.0, for example. The same standard
   defines impulse voltages with times lasting shorter than a few milliseconds e.g. shorter than
   1OOms.
   In regions having high fire hazards like Australia and some arid areas of the United States,
 5 additional technical specifications have set more severe requirements for reducing the risk of
   ignition of a fire: Additional to the normal requirements stated by IEC or IEEE, a surge
   arrester has to fail without spreading hot particles having enough energy to cause a fire in its
   surroundings.
   This is proven by carrying out a short circuit test with the arrester mounted at a defined height
 0 to ground, wherein the ground has been previously covered with a thermal sensitive material
   that is easily inflammable. For example, Australia standard AS 1307.2 specifies many thin
   calibrated paper layers on the ground, while USA (Cal fire) specifies a fuel bed comprising
   dry grass, prepared with fuel.
   Previous technical solutions for the protection from fire promotion by a surge arrester are
 5 mainly based on the concept of limiting the effect of the arc burning between upper and lower
   terminals of the surge arrester in case of a fault current. The consequence is that while the
   surge arrester is overloaded during testing (and later in the field), the overload causes a short
   circuit failure, and an arc is subsequently burning between the surge arrester terminals. The
   terminals are equipped with especially developed electrodes, which shall force the arc to
 0 move, thereby limiting the size of the melted metal droplets falling to ground.
   For example, EP1566869 BI discloses a shaped-electrode-concept for arc guiding in a surge
   arrester.
   In view of the above problems the protection of the environment against unintended fire
   caused by a current overload shall be improved.
25 Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been
   included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these
   matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
   relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
   claims.
30

                                                   3
   Summary
   Embodiments of the present disclosure may provide a protection assembly of a high voltage
   surge arrester and a disconnector device, whose first terminal is electrically connected to the
   high voltage surge arrester and whose second terminal is electrically connected to ground
 5 potential. The actual fire prevention is achieved by way of the design of the disconnector
   device.
   A disconnector device according to embodiments of the present disclosure may provide
   highly effective protection against fire hazard from surge arresters. In case of an overload, a
   disconnector unit inside a housing operates and interrupts the current in that it separates the
 0 two terminals of the disconnector unit device in a fast and reliable manner from each other
   during operation by a high acceleration of the one terminal.
   In one aspect, there is provided a disconnector device for a surge arrester, the disconnector
   device comprising:
   - a housing encompassing a cavity;
 5 - a disconnector unit provided inside the cavity, having a first terminal that is connectable to
   the surge arrester, a second terminal that is connectable to ground potential, a member
   provided at the second terminal and being fitted to the housing, and a disconnector cartridge
   provided in the cavity;
   wherein the housing forms an inner housing of a housing unit, the housing unit comprising
,0 further an outer housing, and
   wherein the inner housing comprises at least one ventilation opening connecting the cavity to
   an outside of the inner housing, and
   wherein the outer housing comprises at least one further ventilation opening connecting the
   outside of the inner housing to an outside of the disconnector device for releasing gases from
25 the operating disconnector cartridge, and
   wherein the at least one ventilation opening and the at least one further ventilation opening
   are displaced against one another such that a labyrinth with a gas escape path for the gases
   from the operating disconnector cartridge is formed.
   In another aspect, there is provided an overload protection assembly, comprising a high
30 voltage surge arrester and a disconnector device disclosed here,

                                                    4
   wherein a first terminal of the surge arrester is electrically connectable to an electrical grid
   line; and
   wherein the first terminal of the disconnector device is electrically connected to a second
   terminal of the high voltage surge arrester; and
 5 wherein the second terminal of the disconnector device is electrically connectable to ground
   potential.
   In a basic embodiment, the inventive disconnector device comprises:
   - a housing encompassing a cavity;
   - a disconnector unit provided inside the cavity, having a first terminal that is connectable to
 0 the surge arrester, a second terminal that is connectable to ground potential, and a member
   that is provided at the second terminal and is fitted to the housing. Moreover, the disconnector
   unit has a disconnector cartridge provided in the cavity for electrically separating the first
   terminal from the second terminal.
   The cartridge is a charge comprising a varistor element that is designed such that it superheats
 5 before the dedicated surge arrester forming a further varistor superheats such that it reaches its
   thermal limit and fails. Expressed in simplified terms, the disconnector device acts as a fuse
   for saving the search arrester from suffering substantive damage from a TOV.
   The aforementioned housing forms an inner housing of a housing unit. The housing unit
   comprises further an outer housing. The inner housing comprises at least one ventilation
20 opening connecting the cavity to an outside of the inner housing. The outer housing comprises
   at least one further ventilation opening connecting the outside of the inner housing to an
   outside of the disconnector device for releasing gases from the operating disconnector
   cartridge. The at least one ventilation opening and the at least one further ventilation opening
   are displaced against one another such that a labyrinth for the gases from the operating
25 disconnector cartridge is formed.
   Depending on the embodiment, the cavity has a circular cross section or a polygonal cross
   section, in particular a hexagonal cross section when seen in an axial direction along a
   longitudinal axis defined by the overall cylindrical shape of the cavity and the moving
   direction of the movable member once the disconnector unit operates.
30 The technical effect of the labyrinth resides in that is allows the gas generated by the
   disconnector cartridge to escape to the environment via a gas escape path but at the same time

                                                    5
   prevents sparks     and hot particles having       enough energy to ignite a fire in the
   environment/surroundings of the disconnector device from leaving the labyrinth and setting
   environment on fire. In other words, the labyrinth serves as a containment means for all
   matter except gas in an operating state of the disconnector device.
 5 Where desired, the disconnector cartridge and the movable member, optionally also the
   second terminal, may be provided as an integral part.
   The labyrinth is designed such that no particle originating from the cavity can leave the cavity
   to the outside of the disconnector device unimpededly. The term unimpededly is understood
   as follows. The path for the hot gas escaping from the cavity leads through the at least one
 0 ventilation opening, the space in between the inner housing and the outer housing and the at
   least one further ventilation opening. Since said path forms at the same time the only potential
   travel path of a potentially hazardous hot particle or spark, said path cannot lead straight, i.e.
   linearly from the cavity to the environment of the disconnector device but leads in a zig-zag
   manner from the cavity to the environment of the disconnector device. That way, a potentially
 5 hazardous hot particle or spark will fly and hit the walls of the labyrinth, i.e. it will be
   impeded by the labyrinth until all its kinetic energy is consumed and the spark extinguishes or
   the hot particle remains in the labyrinth.
   Depending on the embodiment, said zig-zag-shaped path of the labyrinth can be formed by a
   displacement of the at least one ventilation opening and the at least one further ventilation
 0 opening in a circumferential direction with respect to the longitudinal axis axial direction, by
   a displacement of the at least one ventilation opening and the at least one further ventilation
   opening in an axial direction with respect to the longitudinal axis axial direction, or by a
   combination of a circumferential and an axial displacement of the at least one ventilation
   opening and the at least one further ventilation opening.
25 The labyrinth effect and thus the particle trap effect may be enhanced by additional rib
   structures provided on the inner wall surface of the outer housing, on the outer wall surface of
   the inner housing or on both wall surfaces, where required.
   As an optional further safeguard measure, the at least one further ventilation opening is
   designed such that no particles of harmful size that are potentially capable of igniting a fire
30 can pass through them.
   The inventive disconnector device differs to known disconnector devices, in that its member
   is arranged in the housing in a movable manner such that it is guided by the housing and

                                                     6
   propelled from an initial position to an end position at an end of the cavity by gas from the
   disconnector cartridge in an operating state of the disconnector unit. This movement entails a
   mechanical disconnection of the surge arrester from ground potential and eventually a reliable
   interruption of the electric path in between the grid and the ground potential. Owing to the
 5 linear movement of the movable member, the cavity has an elongated, cylindrical overall
   shape. The term initial position is understood as the position of the second terminal before the
   disconnector unit gets into its operating state. The term end position at an end of the cavity is
   understood as the position of the second terminal has once the disconnector unit concluded its
   operating state. The movable member can move inside the cavity and is running in the cavity
 0 like a piston in a piston housing or in a cylinder.
   That way it is possible to establish an insulation distance between the first and the second
   terminal of the disconnector device that is several times larger than in known devices and thus
   prevents a reliable interruption of the current in case of an overload.
   The cavity, as defined by the inner wall of the housing, may have different cross sections such
 5 as a circle, a triangle, a square, a rectangle, a pentagon, a hexagon, heptagon, octagon, in
   general referred to as a polygon in this document. Embodiments of the disconnector device
   having a cross-section of the movable member and of the cavity of polygonal shape are
   advantageous because the second terminal is prevented from rotating about the longitudinal
   axis. As a result, such a set-up protects a ground cable connected in between ground potential
 0 and the second terminal of the disconnector device from being torn apart unintentionally by
   mechanical torsion.
   Where required, a circumferential seal (not shown) may be provided between the movable
   member and the inner wall of the inner housing for enhancing the gas tightness.
   Owing to the high speed and thus the high inertia of the movable member in the operating
25 state of the disconnector unit, there is a danger that said movable member hits the housing
   unit at its end position and bounces back towards its initial position. Such a behaviour is
   undesired since it bears the risk that the insulation distance between the first and the second
   terminal of the disconnector device becomes that small that an undesired re-arcing and a re
   establishment of the electric path between the first and the second terminal of the
30 disconnector device is formed. That undesired effect can be prevented best in that the housing
   unit has a retaining section for retaining the movable member at the retaining section once the
   movable member was propelled towards the end of the cavity. That way, the two separated

                                                     7
   terminals of the device remain spaced from one another in a secure fashion after operation of
   the disconnector device.
   In a basic embodiment of the retaining section of the housing unit, said retaining section is
   formed in that the inner housing has at least one protrusion protruding into the cavity.
 5 Depending on the embodiment of the at least one protrusion, it may be shaped as a lobe, a
   plurality of lobes, an annular rim or segments of an annular rim, for example. Those retaining
   means may form a form fit or a force fit connection with a dedicated portion of the movable
   member.
   For closing the cavity in the axial direction with respect to the longitudinal axis, it is
 0 advantageous if the housing unit has an opening at the end of the cavity, wherein the movable
   member and the opening are adjusted to each other such that a portion of the movable
   member fits into that opening and thereby closes it such that no sparks and no particles of
   harmful size that are potentially capable of igniting a fire generated at the operating state of
   the disconnector cartridge can leave the cavity through that opening. In other words, it is
 5 advantageous if the movable member seals off the second end of the cavity in the axial
   direction. In an advantageous embodiment, the movable member is retained in an operating
   state of the disconnector in the disconnected state of the disconnector by retaining means as
   mentioned in the section above.
   Where required, the guiding of the movable member by the inner housing may not
 0 exclusively be done by a contact geometry of the movable member within the wall of the
   inner housing delimiting the cavity but also by way of an additional guiding means. In an
   exemplary embodiment, said additional guiding means is achieved in that the movable
   member has a tubular section with a diameter fitting to the opening such that a movement of
   the movable member during operation of the disconnector unit is guided by the opening.
25 Where it is desirable that an observer, for example a staff member can tell from a distance to
   the housing on whether the disconnector unit already operated or whether it is still in its
   pristine state, the following embodiment of the disconnector device might be useful. In such a
   disconnector device, a portion of the movable member protrudes through the opening and
   such that it is visible from an outside of the housing after an operation of the disconnector unit.
30 The term pristine state is understood hereinafter as the initial state of the disconnector device
   before operation, i.e. before the disconnector cartridge get into action. That effect can be

                                                     8
   enhanced if the portion of the movable member that is protruding through the opening is
   formed by the tubular section.
   The detectability of the state of the disconnector device for an observer can be even more
   improved, for example the "operated" status, if the portion of the movable member protruding
 5 through the opening after operation of the disconnector unit has a signal colour for indicating
   visually better on whether the disconnector unit already operated or whether it is still in its
   pristine state.
   Having a tubular section of the movable member of a certain substantial length is also
   advantageous in that it contributes substantially to protecting a ground cable connected to the
 0 second terminal of the disconnector device from buckling at the time of operating the
   disconnector device in a mounted state of the disconnector device. In an exemplary
   embodiment, the tubular section measures about 100 millimetres.
   Test proved that satisfactory labyrinths are achievable if the at least one ventilation opening is
   not just a single opening but a plurality of openings in the inner housing. The same holds true
 5 accordingly for the at least one further ventilation opening accordingly.
   In an exemplary embodiment, the ventilation openings are evenly distributed in the
   circumferential direction on the inner housing.
   In an exemplary embodiment of the disconnector device the at least one ventilation opening
   has a slot-like shape extending in the direction of a longitudinal axis defined by the overall
 0 shape of the cavity and a moving direction of the movable member, i.e. along the longitudinal
   axis. Such a set up is advantageous since the cross-section of the ventilation opening is small
   at the beginning of the movement of the movable member from its initial position. As a result,
   the gas pressure is available for propelling the movable member from the initial position
   towards an end position at the end of the cavity. The closer the piston-like movable member
25 comes to the end position at the end of the cavity, the larger the overall cross-section of the
   ventilation opening becomes such that the gas pressure no longer contributes to propelling the
   movable member towards the second end to an extent as at the beginning of the operation.
   Where required, the shape of the at least one ventilation opening as well as the shape of the at
   least one further ventilation opening may be tuned to meet specific speed requirements of the
30 movable member.

                                                      9
   If the disconnector device shall be particularly compact in overall size, it is advantageous if at
   least a part of the movable member has a cup shaped portion, wherein the cup portion
   encompasses the disconnector cartridge at least partly.
   Since the first terminal of the disconnector unit is dedicated to be mechanically fixed to a
 5 bracket or the surge arrester, it is advantageous if the housing unit is mechanically connected
   to the first terminal of the disconnector unit in a substantially rigid manner.
   Where required, the at least one further ventilation opening may be covered by a polymeric
   material, preferably by a thin polymeric foil, in a pristine state of the disconnector device.
   Once the disconnector unit operates and the gas pressure in the cavity builds up quickly, the
 0 thin film will be torn apart such that the further ventilation opening works as intended. The
   foil can contribute to a protection of the interior of the disconnector device against
   environmental impacts such as rain, dust, insects and the like that might affect a proper
   function of the disconnector device negatively.
   The aforementioned advantageous effects apply likewise to an overload protection assembly,
 5 comprising a high voltage surge arrester and a disconnector device as explained above. In this
   case, a first terminal of the surge arrester is electrically connectable to an electrical grid, i.e. to
   an electrical grid line, whereas the first terminal of the disconnector device is electrically
   connected to a second terminal of the high voltage surge arrester, while the second terminal of
   the disconnector device is electrically connectable to ground potential.
 0 More aspects are disclosed in the attached drawings and the following remainder of the
   description.
   Brief description of the Figures
   Fig. 1        shows a schematic cross-sectional view of a disconnector device according to a
                 first embodiment in a pristine state, i.e. before operation;
25 Fig. 2        shows the disconnector device of Fig. 1 after operation;
   Fig. 3        shows a cross-sectional view of a disconnector device according to the first
                 embodiment without disconnector elements like the first terminal, the second
                 terminal, the disconnector cartridge, the movable member and the like;
   Fig. 4        shows an overload protection assembly with a surge arrester and a disconnector
30               device according to the first embodiment;

                                                    10
   Fig. 5       shows a simplified schematic cross-sectional view of a disconnector device
                according to a second embodiment in a pristine state, i.e. before operation; and
   Fig. 6       shows the disconnector device of Fig. 5 after operation;.
 5 Detailed Description of the Figures and Embodiments
   Fig. 1 shows together with fig. 3 a first embodiment of a disconnector device 10 for a surge
   arrester. The disconnector device 10 has a housing unit 14, comprising an inner housing 15
   and an outer housing 16 that extends about the inner housing 15. A gap 17 is provided
   between the inner housing 15 and the outer housing 16. Fig.1 shows just one halve of the
 0 housing unit 14. The halves of the housing unit 14 are connected to one another at a flange
   portion 18 by a bolt-nut connection, by fusion, riveting or other suitable connection means.
   The housing unit is made of an insulating material, such as a polymeric material.
   The inner housing 15 delimits a cavity 20 where a disconnector unit 25 is provided. The
   disconnector unit 25 has a first terminal 30, which protrudes out of the housing unit 14. The
 5 first terminal 30 is designed to be fastened to a surge arrester (not shown). A second terminal
   35 of the disconnector unit is connectable to ground potential 37, for example by way of an
   electrical cable 36 that is advantageous because of its flexibility. A disconnector cartridge 26
   is provided between the first terminal 30 and the second terminal 35 of the disconnector unit
   25 in a pristine state of the disconnector unit 25, i.e. before operation of the disconnector
 0 device. A movable member 40 is connected to the second terminal 35 of the disconnector unit
   25. The movable member is fitted to the cross section of the cavity 20 such that it is guided
   like a piston within the cylindrical cavity 20. This is achieved by a rim 50 of the movable
   member 40 matching the shape and the size of the cross-section of the cavity 20 such that it
   acts as a slider geometry such that the movable member 40 can move freely inside the cavity
25 20 along a longitudinal axis 19.
   When the disconnector unit 25 operates in case of a current overload in the conductive
   pathway between the first terminal 30 and the second terminal 35 connected to ground, the
   disconnector cartridge 26 rapidly heats up and causes the disconnector unit 25 to break apart
   due to the developing hot gas, which is produced by the disconnector cartridge 26 and
30 interrupt the current path between the first terminal 30 and the second terminal 35. The
   technology of disconnector cartridges is well known. The disconnector cartridge 26 is a
   charge comprising a varistor element formed by a SiC-block and a blank cartridge that is

                                                      11
   designed such that it superheats and operate by igniting the blank cartridge by temperature
   before the dedicated surge arrester 140 forming a further varistor superheats such that it
   reaches its thermal limit and fails.
   Consequently, the movable member 40 together with the second terminal 35 is propelled
 5 inside the cavity 20 by the developing gas from the cartridge 26 towards a lower end 45 of
   cavity 20 shown in fig.1.
   The cross-section of the movable member 40 and of the cavity 20 is hexagonal when seen in
   the direction of the longitudinal axis 19.
   Adjacent to the end 45 of cavity 20 there is a retaining section 60 provided for retaining the
 0 rim 50 of the movable member 40 in its end position at the lower end 45 of the cavity 20 is
   formed by an annular protrusion 48 on the inner wall of the inner housing. The cross-section
   of said annular protrusion 48 is slightly deformable and has a conical shoulder 21 that allows
   the rim 50 of the movable member 40 to slide over it from the initial position 31 to the end
   position 32 and a stop shoulder 22 that reliably and permanently prevents the rim 50 of the
 5 movable member 40 from moving back to its initial position.
   In fig. 1 the electric conduction path between the first terminal 30 and the second terminal 35
   is not yet interrupted and leads via the electrically conductive disconnector cartridge 26.
   In fig. 2, the status of the disconnector device 10 known from fig. 1 is shown in a state after
   operation of the disconnector device 10. The movable member 40 has been propelled by the
 0 developing gas pressure from the operating disconnector unit 25 together with the second
   terminal 35 towards the end 45 of the cavity 20. The first terminal 30 and the second terminal
   35 are displaced from one another by a predeterminable insulating distance such that the
   electric conduction path between the first terminal 30 and the second terminal 35 is
   interrupted. Since the disconnector cartridge 26 has vanished, i.e. its structure was dissolved
25 during the operation of the disconnector unit 25.
   In fig. 2, the movable member 40 is located at the end 45 of cavity 20 and secure against any
   movement back to its initial position by the stop shoulder 22 of the protrusion 48. At the same
   time, the cavity 20 is effectively closed, with the exception of ventilation openings described
   further below. Thus, hot solid particles from the operating disconnector unit 25 are kept inside
30 the cavity 20, and thus inside the housing 15.

                                                     12
   The housing is designed to achieve different functions: It defines together with the movable
   member 40 a confined variable volume of the cavity 20, that makes use of the blasting energy
   of the disconnector cartridge 26 to provide a pressure build-up, which is suitable to cause a
   parting speed of the first terminal 30 (fixed) and the second terminal 35 (connected to the
 5 propelled movable member and to ground potential 37) which is high enough to interrupt the
   overload current. Further, by the retaining of the movable member 40, a subsequent restrike
   after current zero is avoided. The insulation distance between the first terminal 30 and the
   second terminal 35 is sufficient to prevent an undesired re-arcing in case of an overload.
   In embodiments, the housing 15 has an opening 55 (see Fig. 1) located in the end 45 of the
 0 cavity 20. The movable member 40 and the opening 55 are adjusted to each other, such that
   after operation of the disconnector unit 25, a part of the movable member 40 fits into the
   opening 55 and thereby closes it. Exemplarily, this is shown in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, while in the
   latter, the closed status after operation of the disconnector unit is shown. Thereby, the part of
   the movable member 40 protruding through the opening 55 is visible from an outside of the
 5 housing 15 by a human observer. In order to make the "operated" status more easily
   detectable by an observer, at least the part of the movable member 40 protruding through the
   opening 55 (see Fig. 2) may have a signal color, for example red or orange. There is only a
   small circumferential gap between the opening 55 and the tubular section 42, for example
   having a size from 0.1 mm to 5 mm, more typically from 0.5 mm to 3.5 mm.
 0 As shown in fig. 1 and fig. 2 along with fig. 3, the inner housing 15 has a plurality of
   ventilation openings 65 connecting the cavity 20 to the gap 17 outside the inner housing 15.
   The outer housing 16 has a plurality of further ventilation openings 66 connecting the gap 17
   to an outside of the disconnector device 10. The ventilation openings 65 and the further
   ventilation openings 66 are displaced against one another such that a labyrinth for the gases
25 from the operating disconnector cartridge 26 is formed on their way out of the cavity 20, i.e.
   on their gas escape path 67. Fig. 3 is a simplified cross-sectional view through the housing
   unit 14 without the movable member 40 such that the opening 55 at the bottom of the housing
   unit 14 is visible.
   The ventilation openings 65 as well as the further ventilation openings 66 are slots having a
30 slot-like shape extending in the direction of the longitudinal axis 19. The effect of the
   ventilation openings 65 is that the decrease of the gas pressure inside cavity 20 is promoted,
   while the movable member 40 moves towards the end 45 of the cavity 20.

                                                      13
   In the embodiments depicted in fig. 1 and 2, the movable member 40 has the shape of a cup
   with a protruding rim 50, having a hexagonal cross section at least at a portion with the largest
   diameter. Fig. 1 discloses that the disconnector device 10 encompasses the disconnector
   cartridge 26 at least partly. In this manner, the volume between the first terminal 30 and the
 5 movable member 40 is designed such that is forms a significant part taken up by the
   disconnector cartridge 26. This ensures a very high acceleration when the movable member
   40.
   The first terminal 30 of the disconnector unit 25 is in some embodiments mounted to the
   housing 15 by screwing. That is, where the first terminal extends through the housing unit 14,
 0 the housing has an inner thread fitting an outer thread on the first terminal 30.
   Fig. 4 shows an overload protection assembly 11 with a disconnector device 10 that is
   electrically connected to a high voltage surge arrester 140. A first terminal 141 of the surge
   arrester 140 is electrically connectable to an electrical grid line 139. The first terminal 30 of
   the disconnector device 10 is electrically connected to a second terminal 142 of the high
 5 voltage surge arrester 140. The second terminal 35 of the disconnector device 10 is
   electrically connectable to ground potential 37 via a flexible ground cable 36. A bracket 143 is
   provided for mechanically fastening the overload protection assembly 11 to a structure such
   as a mast or pylon in an electrically insulated manner.
   The overload protection assembly 11 works as follows. When the surge arrester 140 enters its
 0 conductive state once a predetermined threshold current is exceeded due to an over voltage
   fault, the resulting high current flows from the electrical grid line 139 through the surge
   arrester 140 and the disconnector device 10 towards ground. While it flows through
   disconnector unit 25 in an initial state of the overload, the disconnector cartridge 26 operates
   after a predetermined time span that is determined by the current flowing and the
25 characteristics of the disconnector cartridge 26. Next, the disconnector unit 25 operates, while
   producing a volume of hot gas as well as some solid residues that are typically very hot. The
   resulting fast rise of the pressure in the cavity 20 propels the movable member 40 towards the
   end 45 of the cavity. At the same time, the current flow between the surge arrester 140 and
   ground connected via the second terminal 35 to the disconnector device 10 is interrupted. By
30 safely retaining the movable member 40 at the end of the cavity 20, and thus in a position
   distant to the first terminal, the risk of an undesired secondary arc ignition is eliminated and
   the overload problem is dissolved. Once the disconnector device 10 was operated, it has to be
   replaced because its disconnector cartridge 26 was consumed in the operating state.

                                                    14
   A second embodiment of a disconnector device 100 is shown and described with respect to fig.
   5 and fig. 6. Said second embodiment of a disconnector device 100 has basically the same
   working principle as the one described with respect to figures 1 and 2. Hence, only the
   differences of the second embodiment compared to the first embodiment shall be discussed
 5 hereinafter whereas identical or at least functionally identical elements are provided with the
   same reference characters. Fig. 5 shows the disconnector device 100 in its pristine state, i.e.
   before operation whereas fig. 6 shows it in its state after operation.
   Please note that in the second embodiment of the disconnector device, the display of the outer
   housing 16 is there and arranged in the same fashion as shown in fig. 3 but is not displayed in
 0 figures 5 and 6 to keep the figures as simple as possible.
   In the second embodiment, the cavity 20 in the inner housing 15 as well as the movable
   member 41 have a circular cross section. The rim 50 of the movable member 41 is longer in
   the direction of the longitudinal axis for easing the travel from the first position to an end
   position. The movable member 41 is again cup shaped and encompasses the disconnector
 5 cartridge 26 laterally and axially towards the lower end 45 of the cavity 20.
   The tubular section 42 has a smaller diameter than the cup-shaped portion of the movable
   member 41. The diameter of the tubular section 42 and the diameter of the opening 55 are
   adjusted to each other such that the tubular section 42 can move freely in the opening 55.
   Again, there is only a small circumferential gap between the opening 55 and the tubular
 0 section 42, for example having a size from 0.1 mm to 5 mm, more typically from 0.5 mm to
   3.5 mm. Once the disconnector cartridge 26 operates and the movable member 41 is propelled
   towards the end 45 of cavity 20, the movement of the movable member 41 is guided twofold,
   once by the rim 50 and the inner wall of the inner housing 15 and once by the diameter of the
   tubular section 42 and the opening 55.
25 In yet another embodiment of the disconnector device (not shown) forming a variation to the
   second embodiment 100, the cylindrical wall of the inner housing 15 has no ventilation
   openings 65. The gas escape path 67 leads through a first annular gap between the rim 50 of
   the movable member 41 and through a second annular gap between the tubular section 42 of
   the movable member 41 and the opening 55 of the housing unit 14. Thus, hot particles from
30 the operating disconnector unit 25 are again kept inside the cavity 20, and thus inside the
   housing unit 14 as the first annular gap and the second annular gap form the labyrinth.

                                                   15
  This written description uses examples to disclose the invention, including the best mode, and
  to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention, including making and using
  any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. While various specific
  embodiments have been disclosed in the foregoing, those skilled in the art will recognize that
5 the spirit and scope of the claims allows for equally effective modifications. Especially,
  mutually non-exclusive features of the embodiments described above may be combined with
  each other. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims, and may include
  other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be
  within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the
0 literal language of the claims, or if they include equivalent structural elements with
  insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

                                                   16
   Claims
       1. A disconnector device for a surge arrester, the disconnector device comprising:
          -   a housing encompassing a cavity;
 5        -    a disconnector unit provided inside the cavity, having a first terminal that is
          connectable to the surge arrester, a second terminal that is connectable to ground
          potential, a member provided at the second terminal and being fitted to the housing,
          and a disconnector cartridge provided in the cavity;
          wherein the housing forms an inner housing of a housing unit, the housing unit
 0        comprising further an outer housing, and
          wherein the inner housing comprises at least one ventilation opening connecting the
          cavity to an outside of the inner housing, and
          wherein the outer housing comprises at least one further ventilation opening
          connecting the outside of the inner housing to an outside of the disconnector device
 5        for releasing gases from the operating disconnector cartridge, and
          wherein the at least one ventilation opening and the at least one further ventilation
          opening are displaced against one another such that a labyrinth with a gas escape path
          for the gases from the operating disconnector cartridge is formed.
20    2. A disconnector device according to claim 1, wherein the labyrinth is designed such
          that no particle originating from the cavity can leave the cavity to the outside of the
          disconnector device unimpededly.
      3. A disconnector device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the at least one further
25        ventilation opening is designed such that no particles of harmful size that are

                                                17
      potentially capable of igniting a fire can pass through them.
   4. A disconnector device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
      movable member is arranged in the housing in a movable manner such that it is guided
 5    by the inner housing from an initial position to an end position at an end of the cavity
      by gas from the disconnector cartridge in an operating state of the disconnector unit.
   5. The disconnector device of claim 4, wherein the housing unit has a retaining section
      for retaining the movable member at the retaining section once the movable member
 0    was propelled towards the end of the cavity.
   6.  The disconnector device of claim 5, wherein the retaining section of the housing unit
      is formed in that the inner housing has at least one protrusion protruding into the
      cavity.
 5
   7.  The disconnector device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the housing unit
      has an opening at the end of the cavity, and wherein the movable member and the
      opening are adjusted to each other such that a portion of the movable member fits into
      that opening and thereby closes it.
20
   8. The disconnector device of claim 7, wherein the movable member has a tubular
      section with a diameter fitting to the opening such that a movement of the movable
      member during operation of the disconnector unit is guided by the opening.

                                                  18
   9. The disconnector device of claim 7, wherein after operation of the disconnector unit, a
       portion of the movable member protrudes through the opening such that it is visible
       from an outside of the housing to an observer.
 5 10. The disconnector device of claim 9, wherein the portion of the movable member that
       is protruding through the opening is formed by the tubular section.
   11. The disconnector device of claim 9, wherein the tubular section of the movable
       member is that long that it protects a ground cable from buckling at the time of
 0     operating the disconnector device once the ground cable is connected to the second
       terminal.
   12. The disconnector device of any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein at least the portion of
       the movable member protruding through the opening after operation of the
 5     disconnector unit has a signal color for indicating on whether the disconnector unit
       already operated or whether it is still in its pristine state.
   13. The disconnector device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
       ventilation opening is formed as a plurality of openings in the inner housing.
20
   14. The disconnector device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
       ventilation opening has a slot-like shape extending in the direction of a longitudinal
       axis defined by the overall shape of the cavity and a moving direction of the movable
       member.
25

                                               19
  15. The disconnector device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a part of
      the movable member has a cup shaped portion, and wherein the cup portion
      encompasses the disconnector cartridge at least partly.
5 16. The disconnector device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the housing unit
      is mechanically connected to the first terminal of the disconnector unit.
  17. The disconnector device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein a cross-section
      of the movable member and of the cavity is of polygonal shape.
0
  18. An overload protection assembly, comprising a high voltage surge arrester and a
      disconnector device according to any one of claims 1 to 17,
      wherein a first terminal of the surge arrester is electrically connectable to an electrical
      grid line; and
5     wherein the first terminal of the disconnector device is electrically connected to a
      second terminal of the high voltage surge arrester; and
      wherein the second terminal of the disconnector device is electrically connectable to
      ground potential.




