                                   ABSTRACT
       A fine fiber can be made having a structure with an axial core and a coating
layer. The fiber can have a polymer core and one or two layers surrounding the
core. The fine fiber can be made from a polymer material and a resinous aldehyde
(e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition such that the general structure of the fiber
has a polymer core surrounded by at least a layer of the resinous aldehyde
composition.

WO 2013/043987               PCT/US2012/056511
                  1/16
                       E
                         At' 4
               AA
      c4i                    y

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
               FINE FIBERS MADE FROM POLYMER CROSSLINKED WITH
                             RESINOUS ALDEHYDE COMPOSITION
                               Cross-reference to Related Applications
 5          The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
   61/620,251, filed on April 4, 2012, and U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/537,171,
   filed on September 21, 2011, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
   entirety.
10                                  Background of the Disclosure
            Recent technologies have been used to form layers of fine fiber. Fine fiber
   technologies that contemplate polymeric materials mixed or blended with a variety of other
   substances are disclosed in, for example Chung et al., U.S. Pat. No. 6,743,273. These fibers
   have found commercial acceptance in certain filtration applications in which a layer of fine
15 fiber is formed on a filtration substrate. Certain of the disclosed fibers comprise an axial core
   comprising a phase comprising polymer materials. Surrounding the axial core can be found a
   layer of a coating material such as a phenolic oligomer or a fluoropolymer component. In the
   formation of these fibers, a solution of the polymer and additive is formed by melt processes
   or electrospun to form the fiber.
20
                                               Summary
            A unique fine fiber material is formed by mixing or blending a polymer material with
   a resinous aldehyde composition. In certain embodiments, the aldehyde composition is a
   melamine-aldehyde composition. When formed into a fiber, the mixture or blend of polymer
25 material and resinous aldehyde composition, at appropriate ratios, forms at least two (e.g.,
   concentric or coaxial) phases. The first phase is an internal core or axial polymer phase that
   includes the polymer material. Herein, "internal core," "core phase," "first phase," and
   "axial phase" are used interchangeably. The first core phase is surrounded by a second
   (coating) phase that includes the resinous aldehyde composition.
30          Depending on the polymer material chosen and the type and amount of resinous
   aldehyde composition selected, some proportion of the resinous aldehyde can crosslink
                                                    I

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
   adjacent polymer chains residing in the core or axial polymer phase. In other words, some
   proportion of the resinous aldehyde composition causes some degree of crosslinking of
   available active hydrogen moieties (i.e., groups) that are pendent groups or groups in the
   polymer backbone present in the internal core or axial polymer phase. With the use of
 5 appropriate ratios of polymer material and resinous aldehyde composition in the fiber
   formation, in some embodiments, the resinous aldehyde composition can also form an
   additional outer coating phase surrounding the axial crosslinked polymer phase.
           Accordingly, in one embodiment of the disclosure, a fine fiber comprises an internal
   axial polymer phase comprising a mixture of the polymer material and a resinous aldehyde
10 composition, wherein the resinous aldehyde composition can crosslink available active
   hydrogen groups of the polymer material. In this embodiment the internal axial polymer
   phase is surrounded by a second coating phase including a layer of resinous aldehyde (e.g.,
   melamine-formaldehyde) composition with little or no polymer material in the second
   (coating) phase. In such embodiments, any polymer material in the second coating phase
15 may be present as a dispersed phase or minor phase.
           In a second embodiment of the disclosure, the fine fiber comprises three phases. In
   this embodiment, an internal axial polymer phase (or core phase) includes the polymer
   material, preferably, with little or no resinous aldehyde composition. Surrounding the
   internal axial polymer phase is a second coating phase (i.e., a transition layer or transition
20 phase) comprising a mixture or blend of the polymer material and a resinous aldehyde. The
   solid resinous aldehyde composition crosslinks available active hydrogen groups of the
   polymer material. The fiber additionally contains a third exterior phase (i.e., the outermost
   coating) comprising resinous aldehyde composition.
           In a third embodiment of the disclosure, the fine fiber of either the two-layer (i.e.,
25 two-phase) or three-layer (i.e., three-phase) embodiments disclosed above includes a polymer
   material that is a nylon polymer and a resinous aldehyde composition that is a melamine
   formaldehyde resin. In this embodiment, the nylon polymer contains reactive -NH- groups in
   the polymer backbone that are available for reaction with the melamine-formaldehyde
   material.
30         Thus, the present disclosure provides a fine fiber comprising a core phase and a
   coating phase, wherein the core phase comprises a polymer and the coating phase comprises
                                                    2

     WO 2013/043987                                                               PCT/US2012/056511
   a resinous aldehyde composition; wherein at least a portion of the polymer is crosslinked by
   the resinous aldehyde composition.
            Herein, a "fine" fiber has an average fiber diameter of no greater than 10 microns.
   Typically, this means that a sample of a plurality of fibers of the present disclosure has an
 5 average fiber diameter of no greater than 10 microns.
            The fine fiber of the present disclosure is preferably prepared from a resinous
   aldehyde composition comprising alkoxy groups and a polymer comprising active hydrogen
   groups, wherein the molar ratio of resinous aldehyde composition to polymer is such that the
   molar ratio of alkoxy groups to active hydrogen groups is greater than 10:100.
10          In certain embodiments, it was found that when using a weight ratio of resinous
   aldehyde composition to polymer of at least 20:100, and preferably greater than 20:100 (20
   parts by weight resinous aldehyde composition per 100 parts by weight of the polymer) that a
   useful exterior phase including resinous aldehyde composition forms around the core
   polymer. The exterior coating layer of resinous aldehyde composition (e.g., melamine
15 formaldehyde) provides improved properties, such as humidity resistance, to the fine fibers
   and fine fiber layers of the disclosure, relative to commercially available fibers and fiber
   layers.
            Thus, the present disclosure also provides a fine fiber comprising a core phase and a
   coating phase; wherein the core phase comprises nylon and the coating phase comprises a
20 resinous melamine-aldehyde composition; wherein at least a portion of the nylon is
   crosslinked by the resinous melamine-aldehyde composition; and further wherein the fine
   fiber is prepared from a resinous melamine-aldehyde composition in an amount of greater
   than 20 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the nylon.
            In these embodiments, a layer of fie fiber can be manufactured by forming a
25 plurality of fine fibers on a filtration substrate, thereby forming a filter media. The filter
   media (i.e., fine fiber layer plus filtration substrate) can then be manufactured into filter
   elements (i.e., filtration elements), including, e.g., flat-panel filters, cartridge filters, or other
   filtration components.
            The terms "comprises" and variations thereof do not have a limiting meaning where
30 these terms appear in the description and claims.
                                                      3

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
            The words "preferred" and "preferably" refer to embodiments of the disclosure that
   may afford certain benefits, under certain circumstances. However, other embodiments may
   also be preferred, under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore, the recitation of one
   or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not useful, and is
 5 not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the disclosure.
            In this application, terms such as "a," "an," and "the" are not intended to refer to only
   a singular entity, but include the general class of which a specific example may be used for
   illustration. The terms "a," "an," and "the" are used interchangeably with the term "at least
   one."
10          The phrases "at least one of' and "comprises at least one of' followed by a list refers
   to any one of the items in the list and any combination of two or more items in the list.
            As used herein, the term "or" is generally employed in its usual sense including
   "and/or" unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. The term "and/or" means one or all of
   the listed elements or a combination of any two or more of the listed elements.
15          Also herein, all numbers are assumed to be modified by the term     "" and preferably by
   the term "exactly." As used herein in connection with a measured quantity, the term "" refers
   to that variation in the measured quantity as would be expected by the skilled artisan making
   the measurement and exercising a level of care commensurate with the objective of the
   measurement and the precision of the measuring equipment used.
20          Also herein, the recitations of numerical ranges by endpoints include all numbers
   subsumed within that range as well as the endpoints (e.g., 1 to 5 includes 1, 1.5, 2, 2.75, 3,
   3.80, 4, 5, etc.).
            The above summary of the present disclosure is not intended to describe each
   disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present disclosure. The description
25 that follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places
   throughout the application, guidance is provided through lists of examples, which examples
   can be used in various combinations. In each instance, the recited list serves only as a
   representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.
30
                                                     4

      WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
                                                 Drawings
             The disclosure may be more completely understood in connection with the following
    drawings, in which Figures 1 through 16 comprise test data and results that demonstrate the
    structure and nature of fine fiber materials made from a mixture or blend of polymer material
  5 and resinous aldehyde composition.
             Figure 1 compares the SEM images of the fibers obtained from Reference Example 2
    and a fiber of Example 9 ("polyamide:melamine=1:1" or nylon:melamine-formaldehyde
    weight ratio of 1:1).
            Figure 2 graphically shows the filtration efficiency (LEFS) for the fine fibers of
10  Examples 1-3 and Reference Example 2.
            Figure 3 compares the crosslinking kinetics of the fiber of Reference Example 2 (a
    methoxy-methyl nylon-6) with fine fibers of the present disclosure by comparing the amount
    of fine fiber layer efficiency retained after an ethanol soak test (for 1 min). Dwell time refers
    to the exposure time at an elevated temperature to which the samples were subjected after
15  fiber formation.
            Figures 4A and 4B show the fine fiber layer efficiency retained following ethanol
    and hot water soak tests for the fibers of Examples 9-11 compared to Reference Example 2.
            Figure 5 graphically represents the fine fiber layer efficiency retained as a function of
    exposure time in a temperature-humidity chamber (THC) for the fine fibers of Examples 9
20  11 (melamine-fonnaldehyde:nylon weight ratio of 1:1) compared to Reference Examples 1
    and 2.
            Figures 6-10 display surface analysis results of certain fine fibers of the disclosure.
            Figures 11A and 11B are representations of a cross-section of exemplary fine fibers
    of the disclosure showing, respectively, a three-phase and a two-phase structure.
25          Figures 12-14 display surface analysis results of certain fine fibers of the disclosure.
            Figure 15 shows the fine fiber layer efficiency retained for the fine fibers of
    Examples 2 and 13-15.
            Figure 16 graphically shows the filtration efficiency (LEFS) for the fine fibers of
    Examples 16-19.
30
                                                     5

     WO 2013/043987                                                              PCT/US2012/056511
                           Detailed Description of Illustrative Embodiments
            Polymer webs have been made by electrospinning, melt spinning, extrusion melt
    spinning, air laid processing or wet laid processing. The filtration efficiency of such filters is
    characteristic of the filtration media and is related to the fraction of the particulate removed
 5 from the mobile fluid stream. Efficiency is typically measured by a set test protocol, an
    example of which is defined in the patents listed below. Fine fiber technologies that
   contemplate polymeric materials mixed or blended with a variety of other substances is
   disclosed in Chung et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,743,273; Chung et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,924,028;
   Chung et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,955,775; Chung et al., U.S. Patent No. 7,070,640; Chung et
10 al., U.S. Patent No. 7,090,715; Chung et al., U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003/0106294;
   Barris et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,800,117; and Gillingham et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,673,136.
   Additionally, in Ferrer et al., U.S. Patent No. 7,641,055, a water-insoluble, high-strength
   polymer material is made by mixing or blending a polysulfone polymer with a polyvinyl
   pyrrolidone polymer resulting in a single phase polymer alloy used in electrospinning fine
15 fiber materials. While the fine fiber materials discussed above have adequate performance
   for a number of filtration end uses, in applications with extremes of temperature ranges,
   where mechanical stability is required, improvements in fiber properties can always be
   made.
            The present disclosure provides a simpler fiber-forming composition using an
20 additive that performs the dual function of a surface-forming protective layer and crosslinker
   without resorting to mixtures of exotic, specialty polymers. Mixtures (i.e., blends of certain
   resinous aldehyde compositions with polymer materials can produce the desired protective
   layer structure. Significantly, the fine fibers of the present disclosure have a unique polymer
   composition using crosslinkers that result in a high degree of chemical/environmental
25 resistance. Preferably and significantly, this unique polymer composition is suitable for
   electrospinning using a relatively safe solvent of alcohol-water mixture.
            The fine fibers of the present disclosure are made by combining a fiber-forming
   polymer material and a resinous aldehyde composition that includes alkoxy groups, such as a
   reactive melamine-formaldehyde resin. Herein, "resin" or "resinous" refers to monomers,
30 oligomers, and/or polymers, particularly of a nature that can migrate to the surface of a fine
   fiber during fiber formation. Herein, the term "resinous aldehyde composition" refers to the
                                                        6

     WO 2013/043987                                                             PCT/US2012/056511
   starting material as well as the material in the final fibers. It will be understood that in the
   final fibers, at least a portion of the resinous aldehyde composition will be involved in
   crosslinking the polymer and optionally can be involved in self-crosslinking.
            The fiber-forming polymer material also includes reactive groups. In this context,
 5 "reactive" means that the polymer includes one or more functional groups (e.g., active
   hydrogen groups) capable of being crosslinked by the alkoxy groups of the resinous aldehyde
   composition used in making the fine fibers.
            These components can be combined in solution or melt form. In certain
   embodiments, the fine fibers are electrospun from a solution or dispersion. Thus, the
10 polymer materials and resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) compositions are
   dispersible or soluble in at least one common solvent or solvent blend suitable for
   electrospinning.
            Referring to Figures 11A and 11B, as the fiber 100/102 forms, the resinous aldehyde
   composition preferably forms at least one exterior concentric (coaxial) layer (i.e., phase),
15 such as a second coating phase 22 (Figure 1IB) comprising predominantly the resinous
   aldehyde composition (e.g., melamine-aldehyde composition), or two exterior concentric
   layers (i.e., phases) such as a second coating phase 20 (Figure 11A) comprising a mixture of
   the polymer material and a resinous aldehyde composition, and a third exterior phase
   (outermost phase) 30 (Figure 11 A) comprising predominantly the resinous aldehyde
20 composition. That is, the resinous aldehyde composition can migrate to the surface to form a
   two-phase fiber (Figure 11 B) or a three-phase fiber (Figure 11 A), in which the core 10
   (Figure 11 A) or 12 (Figure 1IB) comprises primarily the polymer material (e.g., nylon).
   Generally, the more resinous aldehyde content relative to polymer, the greater the tendency
   to form a three-phase fiber.
25          Preferably, the fine fiber of the present disclosure is prepared from a resinous
   aldehyde composition comprising alkoxy groups and a polymer comprising active hydrogen
   groups, wherein the molar ratio of resinous aldehyde composition to polymer is such that the
   molar ratio of alkoxy groups of the resinous aldehyde composition to active hydrogen groups
   of the polymer is greater than 10:100 (more preferably, greater than 20:100, and even more
30 preferably, greater than 40:100). Preferably, the molar ratio of resinous aldehyde
   composition to polymer is such that the molar ratio of alkoxy groups in the resinous aldehyde
                                                      7

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
   composition to active hydrogen groups in the polymer is no greater than 300:100 (more
   preferably, no greater than 250:100, and even more preferably, no greater than 210:100).
           In certain embodiments, using a weight ratio of resinous aldehyde composition to
   polymer of at least (preferably, greater than) 20:100 (20 parts by weight resinous aldehyde
 5 composition per 100 parts by weight of the polymer) results in a useful exterior phase
   including the resinous aldehyde composition surrounding the core polymer. The exterior
   coating layer of predominantly resinous aldehyde composition (e.g., melamine
   formaldehyde) provides improved properties, such as humidity resistance, to the fine fibers
   and fine fiber layers of the disclosure, relative to commercially available fibers and fiber
10 layers. In this context, "predominantly" means the referenced material is present in a
   particular region (e.g., coating, layer, or phase) in a major amount (i.e., greater than 50% by
   weight) of the material in that region.
           Suitable resinous aldehyde compositions include two or more alkoxy groups per
   molecule that are capable of crosslinking a polymer used in making the fine fibers as
15 described herein. Exemplary resinous aldehyde compositions are synthetic resins made by
   treating various aldehydes with a reactant under condensation reaction conditions. Useful
   such reactants include phenol, urea, aniline, benzoguanamine, glycoluril, and melamine.
   Useful resinous aldehyde compositions include aldehyde-based agents that can be used in
   crosslinking reactions. The resinous aldehyde compositions are typically nonvolatile. The
20 resinous aldehyde compositions (when combined with polymers such as nylon, as described
   in greater detail below) should also be soluble in a solvent chosen for the polymer material
   for processing, such as in electrospinning. Resinous aldehyde compositions useful as
   crosslinking agents include a condensation product of urea and an aldehyde, a condensation
   product of phenol and an aldehyde, or a condensation product of melamine and an aldehyde.
25 One useful class of crosslinking resins includes resins based on nitrogen compounds such as
   melamine, urea, benzoguanamine, glycoluril, and other similar resins manufactured by
   reacting an aldehyde with a nitrogen compound. Such amine-based crosslinking resins are
   soluble in process solvents and possess reactivity with a variety of polymer species.
           Useful resinous aldehyde compositions (e.g., melamine-aldehyde compositions)
30 include crosslinking agents, and optionally other nonreactive room-temperature-stable resin
                                                     8

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   components, that can be combined in solution or melt form with a variety of polymer
   materials. Melamine forms resinous compositions with a variety of other co-reactants.
           Useful melamine-aldehyde compositions include melamine-aldehyde products
   generally formed by the reaction between melamine and an aldehyde compound. Useful
 5 aldehyde compounds include C1 .6 alkanals including formaldehyde, acetaldehyde,
   butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and the like. Mixtures of such aldehydes can be used if
   desired. The melamine-aldehyde resins, and other suitable resinous aldehyde compositions,
   include components having at least two alkoxy groups per molecule. Typical partially and
   fully reacted melamine-aldehydes have from 3 to 6, or from 4 to 6, alkoxy groups per
10 molecule.
           In certain embodiments, the resinous aldehyde composition comprises a condensation
   product of urea and an aldehyde, a condensation product of phenol and an aldehyde, a
   condensation product of melamine and an aldehyde, or a mixture thereof. In certain
   embodiments, the resinous aldehyde composition comprises a condensation product of
15 benzoguanamine and an aldehyde, a condensation product of glycouril and an aldehyde, or a
   mixture thereof.
           Useful resinous aldehyde compositions (e.g., melamine-aldehyde compositions)
   include compounds and mixtures thereof including: highly methylated melamine; partially
   methylated melamine; methylated high imino melamine; highly alkylated mixed ether
20 melamine; highly alkylated carboxylated, high imino mixed ether melamine; highly n
   butylated melamine; n-butylated high imino and partially n-butylated melamine; partially iso
   butylated melamine; partially n-butylated urea; partially iso-butylated urea; glycoluril; highly
   alkylated mixed ether melamine-formaldehyde; highly alkylated mixed ether carboxylated
   melamine resin; hexa butoxy methyl melamine; butoxy methyl melamine; highly alkylated
25 mixed ether melamine; methoxymethyl methylol melamine, highly methylated melamine
   resins; melamine-formaldehyde resin co-etherified with methanol and n-butoxy ethanol/n
   butanol blend; melamine-formaldehyde resin co-etherified with methanol and n-butanol in n
   butanol; butylated melamine-formaldehyde resin dissolved in a blend of n-butanol and butyl
   glycol; hexa butoxy methyl melamine; partially n-butylated melamine; high solids, highly
30 methylated melamine resins; various resinous aldehyde compositions sold under the trade
   names CYMEL available from Cytec Industries of West Paterson, NJ, wherein such
                                                 9

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   compositions include, for example, CYMEL 301, CYMEL 303 LF, CYMEL 350, CYMEL
   3745, CYMEL MM-100, CYMEL 370, CYMEL 373, CYMEL 3749, CYMEL 323, CYMEL
   325, CYMEL 327, CYMEL 328, CYMEL 385, CYMEL 481, CYMEL 1116, CYMEL 1130,
    CYMEL 1133, CYMEL 1135, CYMEL 1161, CYMEL 1168, CYMEL 1125, CYMEL 1141,
 5 CYMEL 202, CYMEL 203, CYMEL 254, CYMEL 1156, CYMEL 1158, CYMEL 9370,
   CYMEL MB-98, CYMEL MB-11-B, CYMEL MB-14-B, CYMEL 615, CYMEL 651,
   CYMEL 683, CYMEL 688, CYMEL MI-12-I, CYMEL MI-97-IX, CYMEL UM-15,
   CYMEL U-80, CYMEL UB-24-BX, CYMEL UB-25-BE, CYMEL UB-26-BX, CYMEL
   UB-30-B, CYMEL UB-90-BX, CYMEL U-227-8, CYMEL U-610, CYMEL U-640,
10 CYMEL U-646, CYMEL U-662, CYMEL U-663, CYMEL U-665, CYMEL UI-19-I,
   CYMEL UI-19-IE, CYMEL UI-20-E, CYMEL UI-38-I, CYMEL 1123, CYMEL 659,
   CYMEL 1172, CYMEL 1170, and the like; and various resinous aldehyde compositions sold
   under the trade name LUWIPAL and available from the BASF AG of Ludwigshafen,
   Germany, wherein such compositions include, for example, LUWIPAL LR 8955, LUWIPAL
15 LR 8968, and LUWIPAL LR 8984. Such resins are also available from INEOS Melamines
   Inc., and sold under the trade names RESIMENE (e.g., RESIMENE HIM 2608),
   MAPRENAL, and MADURIT.             Various combinations of resinous aldehyde compositions
   can be used if desired.
            In many preferred embodiments, a melamine-formaldehyde resin (sometimes referred
20 to herein as simply a "melamine composition" or "melamine resin") is used. Reference to
   melamine-formaldehyde resins means a melamine-based resin that has two or more (at least
   two) alkoxy functional groups (methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, etc.) per melamine
   molecule. Besides the alkoxy functional groups, the melamine-formaldehyde resins may have
   NH, hydroxyl, or carboxylic acid functional groups. Uncrosslinked melamine-formaldehyde
25 is a thermosetting plastic (thermoset) additive used for crosslinking polymers that strengthens
   the crosslinked polymer as it is heated. Once set, it cannot be remolded or set to form a
   different shape. Crosslinked melamine-formaldehyde plastics retain their strength and shape,
   unlike other types of thermoplastics that soften with heat and harden when cooled (such as
   acetate, acrylic, and nylon). Crosslinked melamine-formaldehyde is stain-resistant and
30 resistant to strong solvents and water. Depending on the functional groups in the melamine
   formaldehyde resins, uncrosslinked resins can be both water soluble and water insoluble, or
                                                  10

     WO 2013/043987                                                        PCT/US2012/056511
   soluble in organic solvents such as alcohols, hydrocarbons (toluene, xylene, etc.) or others, or
   a mixture of these solvents.
           Melamine-formaldehyde resins are made from the reaction of formaldehyde with
   melamine. Melamine (chemical formula C3 H6N6) and formaldehyde (chemical formula
 5 CH 2 0) have the following structures:
              H2 N,   N     NH2
                         N
                             T                          H   H
                      NH2
                    Melamine                         Formaldehyde
   wherein melamine is 1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-triamine;or 2,4,6-triamino-s-triazine; or cyanuro
10 triamide. Representative structures for the melamine-formaldehyde resin are shown in
   structure I or II:
                                     x                       x
                                 X        N       N      N       X
                                             N        N
                                             rN
                                             x        X            I;
                                    RO)                     OR
                                RO        N      N      N       OR
                                            N>       N
                                                 N
                                            OR       OR            Il;
15
                                                  11

     WO 2013/043987                                                          PCT/US2012/056511
   wherein in compound I, X is H or alkoxy or hydroxyl and at least two X groups are alkoxy.
   Preferably, if the compound has two or three alkoxy groups, the alkoxy groups are not on the
   same nitrogen substituent. The melamine resin compound I needs at a minimum two reactive
   or crosslinkable alkoxy groups. Representative compound II is a fully reacted compound
 5 referred to as a hexa(alkoxymethyl)melamine type resin, wherein R is H or alkyl (methyl,
   ethyl, butyl, etc.) (such that OR is an alkoxy group (methoxy, ethoxy, butoxy, etc.)).
           Melamine resins are part of a larger class of amino resins. They are used as bonding
   agents in plywood and particle board and wrinkle-resistance agents in textiles. They are
   also molded for electrical devices and various commercial and home applications. They are
10 also used as crosslinkers in paper towels to increase water resistance. When we refer to
   melamine-formaldehyde resins we refer to uncrosslinked melamine resins. It is sold under
   various trade names, including CYMEL, LUWIPAL, RESIMENE, MAPRENAL, etc.
           An exemplary such melamine resin is hexa(methoxymethyl)melamine (HMMM) (e.g.,
   structure II above wherein R is methyl). As reaction partners for HMMM, polymers having
15 active hydrogen groups, predominantly amide, hydroxyl, carboxyl or anhydride functional
   groups, have been used for making films.
           If desired, and depending on the resinous aldehyde composition, for example, the
   crosslinking reaction described herein may need a strong acid catalyst such as a sulfonic acid,
   such as para-toluene sulfonic acid. In certain embodiments, a catalyst such as an acid
20 catalyst is preferably used in an amount of at least 4 wt-%, based on polymer solids, to
   enhance crosslinking speed. Typically, no more than 10 wt-% catalyst, such as an acid
   catalyst, is used in the crosslinking reaction of the present disclosure.
           If desired, fine fibers formed from the crosslinking reaction between a resinous
   aldehyde composition and a polymer material, as described herein, can be enhanced, e.g.,
25 with respect to speed and extent of crosslinking, by exposing the fine fibers to thermal
   treatment. Such thermal treatment typically includes a temperature of at least 80'C, at least
   100 0 C, or at least 120'C, and typically no greater than 150'C, for typically at least 5
   seconds, and typically no greater than 10 minutes.
            In the fibers of the disclosure, the resinous aldehyde composition of the disclosure is
30 combined with a polymer material that comprises a polymer or polymer mixture or blend.
   The polymer or polymer mixture or blend is selected such that it can be combined with the
                                                      12

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
    resinous aldehyde composition in a solution or dispersion or in the melt. The combination
    of polymer material and resinous aldehyde composition, in certain embodiments, should be
    substantially stable in the melt or in solution or dispersion form for sufficient time such that
   the fiber can be formed.
 5          The polymer or polymer mixture or blend should include at least one fiber-forming
   polymer that includes one or more active hydrogen groups capable of being crosslinked by
   the resinous aldehyde composition. Preferred such polymer materials include one or more
   active hydrogen groups capable of reacting with and crosslinking to the resinous aldehyde
   compositions. Active hydrogen groups include, but are not limited to, thiol (-SH), hydroxyl
10 (-OH), carboxylate (-CO2 H), amido (-C(O)-NH- or -C(O)-NH 2), amino (-NH 2), or imino
   (-NH-), and anhydride (-COO) 2 R groups (upon hydrolysis). These groups can be found in
   pendent polymer groups or in the polymer backbone.
            Polymer materials suitable for use in the polymeric compositions of the disclosure
   include both addition polymer and condensation polymer materials with active hydrogens.
15 Suitable examples include poly(meth)acrylic acids, polyamides, cellulose ethers and esters,
   poly(maleic anhydride), polyamines such as chitosan and mixtures, blends, alloys, and block,
   graft, or random copolymers thereof. Such copolymers can include one or more other
   moieties in addition to those listed in the previous sentence. Preferred materials that fall
   within these generic classes include poly(vinyl alcohol) in various degrees of hydrolysis
20 (e.g., 87% to 99.5%) in crosslinked and non-crosslinked forms. Preferred addition polymers
   tend to be glassy, that is, having a Tg (glass transition temperature) greater than room
   temperature. Additionally, polymer materials that have low crystallinity, such as poly(vinyl
   alcohol) materials, are also useful as the polymer materials of the disclosure.
            Other preferred examples of useful polymer materials include cellulose derivatives
25 selected from the group consisting of ethyl cellulose, hydroxyl ethyl cellulose, cellulose
   acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, cellulose acetate phthalate,
   and mixtures thereof; poly(meth)acrylic acid homopolymers and copolymers, including for
   example, styrene-(meth)acrylic acid copolymers and ethylene-(meth)acrylic acid copolymers;
   polyvinyl alcohol homopolymers or copolymers, including for example, a polyvinyl butyral
30 and an ethylene co-vinyl alcohol copolymer; poly(maleic anhydride) homopolymers or
   copolymers, including for example, a styrene-maleic anhydride copolymer; and
                                                    13

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
   polyurethanes. Herein, a poly(meth)acrylic acid refers to poly(acrylic acid) and
   poly(methacrylic acid) polymers.
            Many types of polyamides are also useful as the polymer materials in the fibers of the
   disclosure. One useful class of polyamide condensation polymers are nylon materials. The
 5 term "nylon" is a generic name for all long chain synthetic polyamides. Typically, nylon
   nomenclature includes a series of numbers such as in nylon-6,6 which indicates that the
   starting materials are a C6 diamine and a C6 diacid (the first digit indicating a C6 diamine and
   the second digit indicating a C6 dicarboxylic acid compound). Another nylon can be made
   by the polycondensation of s-caprolactam in the presence of a small amount of water. This
10 reaction forms a nylon-6 (made from a cyclic lactam, also known as s-aminocaproic acid)
   that is a linear polyamide. Further, nylon copolymers are also contemplated. Exemplary
   nylon materials include nylon-6, nylon-6,6, nylon-6,10, mixtures or copolymers thereof.
            Copolymers can be made by combining various diamine compounds, various diacid
   compounds and various cyclic lactam structures in a reaction mixture and then forming the
15 nylon with randomly positioned monomeric materials in a polyamide structure. For example,
   a nylon-6,6-6,10 material is a nylon manufactured from hexamethylene diamine and a C6 and
   a C10 blend of diacids. A nylon-6-6,6-6,10 is a nylon manufactured by copolymerization of
   c-aminocaproic acid, hexamethylene diamine and ablend of a C6 and a C10 diacid material.
   Herein, the term "copolymer" includes polymers made from two or more different monomers
20 and include terpolymers, etc.
            Block copolymers are also useful as the polymer materials in the fibers of the
   disclosure. With such copolymers, where fibers will be electrospun, the choice of solvent or
   solvent blend is important. The selected solvent or solvent blend is selected such that both
   blocks are soluble in the solvent. Examples of useful block copolymers include PEBAX r
25 caprolactam-b-ethylene oxide, available from Arkema Inc. of Philadelphia, PA; and
   polyurethanes of ethylene oxide and isocyanates.
            Addition polymers like polyvinyl alcohol, and amorphous addition polymers such as
   poly(acrylonitrile) copolymers with acrylic acid are also useful. They can be solution spun
   with relative ease because they are soluble or dispersible in a variety of solvents and solvent
30 blends at low pressures and temperatures. A poly(vinyl alcohol) having a hydrolysis degree
                                                  14

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   of, for example, from 87 to 99.9+% can be used as the polymer material in the fibers of the
   disclosure.
            Preferred polymers within this embodiment include a polyamides (particularly nylon),
   polyester amides, a polyvinyl alcohol, an ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol polymer, a polyvinyl
 5 butyral, and poly(maleic anhydride). Preferred active hydrogen groups include hydroxyl,
   amino, and amido groups. Various combinations of polymer materials can be used if
   desired.
            Optionally, in addition to the polymers with reactive hydrogen groups, the polymer
   material used in the fibers of the disclosure can include one or more nonreactive polymers.
10 In this context, "nonreactive" is defined as being unable to crosslink with melamine
   formaldehyde resins or other resinous aldehyde composition used. For example, polymer
   materials such as many polyolefins, polyvinyl chloride and other such materials may be used,
   wherein such polymers have no groups that can crosslink with the resinous aldehyde
   composition. Other nonreactive polymers include polyacetals, polyesters, polyalkylene
15 sulfides, polyarylene oxides, polysulfones, modified (e.g., polyether) polysulfone polymers,
   poly(vinylpyridine) such as poly(4-vinylpyridine), and the like. Preferred materials that fall
   within these generic classes include polyethylene, polypropylene, poly(vinyl chloride),
   poly(methylmethacrylate), (and other acrylic resins), polystyrene, and copolymers thereof
   (including ABA type block copolymers), poly(vinylidene fluoride), poly(vinylidene
20 chloride), mixtures, blends, or alloys. Examples of useful block copolymers include ABA
   type copolymers (e.g, styrene-EP-styrene) (wherein "EP" refers to ethylene-propylene) or
   AB (e.g., styrene-EP) polymers, KRATON styrene-b-butadiene and styrene-b-hydrogenated
   butadiene(ethylene propylene), available from Kraton Polymers U.S. LLC of Houston, TX;
   and SYMPATEX polyester-b-ethylene oxide, available from SympaTex Technologies Inc. of
25 Hampton, NH. Various combinations of nonreactive polymers can be used if desired.
            If desired, a nonreactive polymer can be used in an amount that does not adversely
   impact the positive effects of the crosslinking that occurs upon use of a polymer having
   active hydrogens.
            Addition nonreactive polymers like poly(vinylidene fluoride), syndiotactic
30 polystyrene, copolymers of vinylidene fluoride and hexafluoropropylene, polyvinyl acetate,
   amorphous addition polymers such as polystyrene, poly(vinyl chloride) and its various
                                                   15

     WO 2013/043987                                                             PCT/US2012/056511
   copolymers, and poly(methyl methacrylate) and its various copolymers can be solution spun
   with relative ease because they are soluble or dispersible in a variety of solvents and solvent
   blends at low pressures and temperatures. However, highly crystalline polymers like
   polyethylene and polypropylene typically require high temperature, high pressure solvents or
 5 solvent blends if they are to be solution spun. Therefore, solution spinning of the
   polyethylene and polypropylene is very difficult
            One aspect of the disclosure is the utility of such fine fiber materials as they are
   formed into a filter structure such as filter media. In such a structure, the fine fiber materials
   of the disclosure are formed on and adhered to a filter substrate (i.e., filtration substrate).
10 Natural fiber and synthetic fiber substrates can be used as the filter substrate. Examples
   include spunbonded or melt-blown supports or fabrics, wovens and nonwovens of synthetic
   fibers, cellulosic materials, and glass fibers. Plastic screen-like materials both extruded and
   hole punched, are other examples of filter substrates, as are ultra-filtration (UF) and micro
   filtration (MF) membranes of organic polymers. Examples of synthetic nonwovens include
15 polyester nonwovens, polyolefin (e.g., polypropylene) nonwovens, or blended nonwovens
   thereof. Sheet-like substrates (e.g., cellulosic or synthetic nonwoven webs) are the typical
   form of the filter substrates. The shape and structure of the filter material, however, is
   typically selected by the design engineer and depends on the particular filtration application.
            A filter media construction according to the present disclosure can include a layer of
20 permeable coarse fibrous material (i.e., media or substrate) having a first surface. A first
   layer of fine fiber media is preferably disposed on the first surface of the layer of permeable
   coarse fibrous media.
            Preferably, the layer of permeable coarse fibrous material comprises fibers having an
   average diameter of at least 5 microns, and more preferably at least 12 microns, and even
25 more preferably at least 14 microns. Preferably, the coarse fibers have an average diameter
   of no greater than 50 microns.
            Also, preferably, the permeable coarse fibrous material comprises a media having a
   basis weight of no greater than 260 grams/meter 2 (g/m 2), and more preferably no greater than
   150 g/m 2 . Preferably, the permeable coarse fibrous material comprises a media having a
30 basis weight of at least 0.5 g/m 2 , and more preferably at least 8 g/m 2 . Preferably, the first
   layer of permeable coarse fibrous media is at least 0.0005 inch (12 microns) thick, and more
                                                     16

    WO 2013/043987                                                             PCT/US2012/056511
   preferably at least 0.001 inch thick. Preferably, the first layer of permeable coarse fibrous
   media is no greater than 0.030 inch thick. Typically and preferably, the first layer of
   permeable coarse fibrous media is 0.001 inch to 0.030 inch (25-800 microns) thick.
   Preferably, the first layer of permeable coarse fibrous media has a Frazier permeability
 5 (differential pressure set at 0.5 inch of water) of at least 2 meters/minute (m/min).
   Preferably, the first layer of permeable coarse fibrous media has a Frazier permeability
   (differential pressure set at 0.5 inch of water) of no greater than 900 m/min.
            In preferred arrangements, the first layer of permeable coarse fibrous material
   comprises a material which, if evaluated separately from a remainder of the construction by
10 the Frazier permeability test, would exhibit a permeability of at least 1 m/min, and preferably
   at least 2 m/min. In preferred arrangements, the first layer of permeable coarse fibrous
   material comprises a material which, if evaluated separately from a remainder of the
   construction by the Frazier permeability test, would exhibit a permeability of no greater than
   900 m/min, and typically and preferably 2-900 m/min. Herein, when reference is made to
15 efficiency, unless otherwise specified, reference is meant to efficiency when measured
   according to ASTM-1215-89, with 0.78 micron (p) monodisperse polystyrene spherical
   particles, at 20 fpm (feet per minute, 6.1 m/min) as described herein.
            Fine fibers of the disclosure can be made using a variety of techniques including
   electrostatic spinning, wet spinning, dry spinning, melt spinning, extrusion spinning, direct
20 spinning, gel spinning, etc.
            Herein, a "fine" fiber has an average fiber diameter of no greater than 10 microns.
   Typically, this means that a sample of a plurality of fibers of the present disclosure has an
   average fiber diameter of no greater than 10 microns. Preferably, such fibers have an
   average diameter of no greater than 5 microns, more preferably no greater than 2 microns,
25 even more preferably no greater than 1 micron, and even more preferably no greater than 0.5
   micron. Preferably, such fibers have an average diameter of at least 0.005 micron, more
   preferably at least 0.01 micron, and even more preferably at least 0.05 micron.
            The fine fibers are collected on a support layer during, for example, electrostatic or
   melt spinning formation, and are often heat treated after fiber making. Preferably, the layer
30 of fine fiber material is disposed on a first surface of a layer of permeable coarse fibrous
   media (i.e., support layer) as a layer of fiber. Also, preferably the first layer of fine fiber
                                                    17

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
   material disposed on the first surface of the first layer of permeable coarse fibrous material
   has an overall thickness that is no greater than 50 microns, more preferably no greater than
   30 microns, even more preferably no more than 20 microns, and most preferably no greater
   than 10 microns. Typically and preferably, the thickness of the fine fiber layer is within a
 5 thickness of 1-20 times (often 1-8 times, and more preferably no more than 5 times) the fine
   fiber average diameter used to make the layer. In certain embodiments, the fine fiber layer
   has a thickness of at least 0.05 p1.
            In a fiber spinning process for making fine fibers of the disclosure, the polymer being
   spun is typically converted into a fluid state (e.g., by dissolution in solvent or melting). The
10 fluid polymer is then forced through the spinneret, where the polymer cools to a rubbery
   state, and then a solidified state. The aldehyde composition can migrate to the surface as the
   fluid polymer transitions to a solid state. Wet spinning is typically used for polymers that
   need to be dissolved in a solvent to be spun. The spinneret is submerged in a chemical bath
   that causes the fiber to precipitate, and then solidify, as it emerges. The process gets its name
15 from this "wet" bath. Acrylic, rayon, aramid, modacrylic, and spandex are produced via this
   process. Dry spinning is also used for polymers that are dissolved in solvent. It differs in that
   the solidification is achieved through evaporation of the solvent. This is usually achieved by
   a stream of air or inert gas. Because there is no precipitating liquid involved, the fiber does
   not need to be dried, and the solvent is more easily recovered. Melt spinning is used for
20 polymers that can be melted. The polymer solidifies by cooling after being extruded from the
   spinneret.
            In a typical process, pellets or granules of the solid polymer are fed into an extruder.
   The pellets are compressed, heated and melted by an extrusion screw, then fed to a spinning
   pump and into the spinneret. A direct spinning process avoids the stage of solid polymer
25 pellets. The polymer melt is produced from the raw materials, and then from the polymer
   finisher directly pumped to the spinning mill. Direct spinning is mainly applied during
   production of polyester fibers and filaments and is dedicated to high production capacity
   (>100 tons/day). Gel spinning, also known as dry-wet spinning, is used to obtain high
   strength or other special properties in the fibers. The polymer is in a "gel" state, only partially
30 liquid, which keeps the polymer chains somewhat bound together. These bonds produce
   strong inter-chain forces in the fiber, which increase its tensile strength. The polymer chains
                                                    18

       WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
     within the fibers also have a large degree of orientation, which increases strength. The fibers
     are first air dried, then cooled further in a liquid bath. Some high strength polyethylene and
     aramid fibers are produced via this process.
              An alternative for making fine fibers of the disclosure is a melt-blowing process.
  5  Melt-blowing (MB) is a process for producing fibrous webs or articles directly from
     polymers or resins using high-velocity air or another appropriate force to attenuate the
     filaments. This process is unique because it is used almost exclusively to produce
     microfibers rather than fibers the size of normal textile fibers. MB microfibers generally
     have diameters in the range of 2 to 4 pLm (micrometers or microns or pt), although they may
10   be as small as 0.1 pm and as large as 10 to 15 pm. Differences between MB nonwoven
     fabrics and other nonwoven fabrics, such as degree of softness, cover or opacity, and porosity
     can generally be traced to differences in filament size. As soon as the molten polymer is
     extruded from the die holes, high velocity hot air streams (exiting from the top and bottom
     sides of the die nosepiece) attenuate the polymer streams to form microfibers. As the hot air
15   stream containing the microfibers progresses toward the collector screen, it entrains a large
    amount of surrounding air (also called secondary air) that cools and solidifies the fibers. The
     solidified fibers subsequently get laid randomly onto the collecting screen, forming a self
    bonded nonwoven web. The fibers are generally laid randomly (and also highly entangled)
    because of the turbulence in the air stream, but there is a small bias in the machine direction
20  due to some directionality imparted by the moving collector. The collector speed and the
    collector distance from the die nosepiece can be varied to produce a variety of melt-blown
    webs. Usually, a vacuum is applied to the inside of the collector screen to withdraw the hot
    air and enhance the fiber laying process.
             Any of the above-listed processes for making the fine fiber of the disclosure can be
25  used to make the permeable course fibrous material for the filtration substrate. Spunbond
    techniques can also be used for making the permeable course fibrous material for the
    filtration substrate. Spunbond fabrics are produced by depositing extruded, spun filaments
    onto a collecting belt in a uniform random manner followed by bonding the fibers. The fibers
    are separated during the web laying process by air jets or electrostatic charges. The collecting
30  surface is usually perforated to prevent the air stream from deflecting and carrying the fibers
    in an uncontrolled manner. Bonding imparts strength and integrity to the web by applying
                                                       19

     WO 2013/043987                                                          PCT/US2012/056511
   heated rolls or hot needles to partially melt the polymer and fuse the fibers together. Since
   molecular orientation increases the melting point, fibers that are not highly drawn can be
   used as thermal binding fibers. Polyethylene or random ethylene-propylene copolymers are
   used as low melting bonding sites. Spunbond products are employed in carpet backing,
 5 geotextiles, and disposable medical/hygiene products. Since the fabric production is
   combined with fiber production, the process is generally more economical than when using
   staple fiber to make nonwoven fabrics. The spinning process is similar to the production of
   continuous filament yarns and utilizes similar extruder conditions for a given polymer.
   Fibers are formed as the molten polymer exits the spinnerets and is quenched by cool air.
10 The objective of the process is to produce a wide web and, therefore, many spinnerets are
   placed side by side to generate sufficient fibers across the total width. The grouping of
   spinnerets is often called a block or bank. In commercial production two or more blocks are
   used in tandem in order to increase the coverage of fibers.
           In a spunbond process, before deposition on a moving belt or screen, the output of a
15 spinneret usually consists of a hundred or more individual filaments which must be
   attenuated to orient molecular chains within the fibers to increase fiber strength and decrease
   extensibility. This is accomplished by rapidly stretching the plastic fibers immediately after
   exiting the spinneret. In practice the fibers are accelerated either mechanically or
   pneumatically. In most processes the fibers are pneumatically accelerated in multiple
20 filament bundles; however, other arrangements have been described where a linearly aligned
   row or rows of individual filaments is pneumatically accelerated.
           In a traditional textile spunbond process some orientation of fibers is achieved by
   winding the filaments at a rate of approximately 3,200 m/min to produce partially oriented
   yams (POY). The POYs can be mechanically drawn in a separate step for enhancing
25 strength. In spunbond production filament bundles are partially oriented by pneumatic
   acceleration speeds of 6,000 m/min or higher. Such high speeds result in partial orientation
   and high rates of web formation, particularly for lightweight structures (17 g/m 2). The
   formation of wide webs at high speeds is a highly productive operation.
           For many applications, partial orientation of the course fibers of the filter substrate
30 sufficiently increases strength and decreases extensibility to give a functional fabric
   (examples: diaper cover stock). However, some applications, such as primary carpet
                                                   20

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
   backing, require filaments with very high tensile strength and low degree of extension. For
   such application, the filaments are drawn over heated rolls with a typical draw ratio of 3.5:1.
   The filaments are then pneumatically accelerated onto a moving belt or screen. This process
   is slower, but gives stronger webs.
 5          The spunbond web is formed by the pneumatic deposition of the filament bundles
   onto the moving belt. A pneumatic gun uses high-pressure air to move the filaments through
   a constricted area of lower pressure, but higher velocity as in a venturi tube. In order for the
   web to achieve maximum uniformity and cover, individual filaments can be separated before
   reaching the belt. This is accomplished by inducing an electrostatic charge onto the bundle
10 while under tension and before deposition. The charge may be induced triboelectrically or
   by applying a high voltage charge. The former is a result of rubbing the filaments against a
   grounded, conductive surface. The electrostatic charge on the filaments can be at least
   30,000 electrostatic units per square meter (esu/ m2 ).
            Fine fibers of the disclosure can be made preferably using the electrostatic spinning
15 process. A suitable electrospinning apparatus for forming the fine fibers includes a reservoir
   in which the fine fiber forming solution is contained, and an emitting device, which generally
   consists of a rotating portion including a plurality of offset holes. As it rotates in the
   electrostatic field, a droplet of the solution on the emitting device is accelerated by the
   electrostatic field toward the collecting media. Facing the emitter, but spaced apart
20 therefrom, is a grid upon which the collecting media (i.e., a substrate or combined substrate)
   is positioned. Air can be drawn through the grid. A high voltage electrostatic potential is
   maintained between emitter and grid by means of a suitable electrostatic voltage source. The
   substrate is positioned in between the emitter and grid to collect the fiber.
            Specifically, the electrostatic potential between grid and the emitter imparts a charge
25 to the material which cause liquid to be emitted therefrom as thin fibers which are drawn
   toward grid where they arrive and are collected on substrate. In the case of the polymer in
   solution, a portion of the solvent is evaporated off the fibers during their flight to the
   substrate. The fine fibers bond to the substrate fibers as the solvent continues to evaporate
   and the fiber cools. Electrostatic field strength is selected to ensure that as the polymer
30 material is accelerated from the emitter to the collecting media, the acceleration is sufficient
   to render the polymer material into a very thin microfiber or nanofiber structure. Increasing
                                                     21

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
   or slowing the advance rate of the collecting media can deposit more or less emitted fibers on
   the forming media, thereby allowing control of the thickness of each layer deposited thereon.
   Electrospinning processes usually use polymer solutions with 5-20% solids (on polymer)
   concentration. Solvents that are safe and easy to use are desired in industrial applications.
 5 On the other hand, fibers formed with such solvents often need to survive and perform in a
   wide variety of environments.
            Filter media with high removal efficiency can be manufactured utilizing the polymers
   and fibers from this disclosure. Typical properties of the filter media are shown in Table 1.
   In Table 1, LEFS efficiency (Low Efficiency Flat Sheet) refers to the removal efficiency for
10 0.78 micron latex particles at a face velocity of 20 feet/minute (ft/min) when tested according
   to ASTM-1215-89.
                                                  Table 1
                                        Typical Fiber Parameters
15
   Fiber (size) diameter         0.01-2          0.05-0.8           0.1-0.5          (
   Layer thickness               0.1-8           0.4-5              0.8-4            (p)
   Efficiency                   At least 75%     75-90%             80-85%           (LEFS)
            The fine fibers of the present disclosure in the form of a layer disposed on a filtration
   substrate can then be manufactured into filter elements, including flat-panel filters, cartridge
20 filters, or other filtration components. Examples of such filter elements are described in U.S.
   Patent Nos. 6,746,517; 6,673,136; 6,800,117; 6,875,256; 6,716,274; and 7,316,723.
            Filter elements meeting a MERV 15 or higher rating can be manufactured using filter
   media (i.e., fine fiber layer on a substrate) of the present disclosure with a LEFS efficiency of
   90% or higher (according to ASTM-1215-89). MERV is an acronym for Minimum
25 Efficiency Reporting Value; it is a rating for filter elements for pressure drop and removal
   efficiency performance under ASHRAE Standard 52.2. Efficiency and pressure drop
   measurements associated with individual MERV ratings are given in Table 2 (wherein           "<"
   means less than, and ">" means greater than or equal; "in. W.G." means inch water guage or
   simply "inches H2 0").
                                                     22

  WO 2013/043987                                                                 PCT/US2012/056511
                                                  Table 2
                    Minimum Efficiency Reporting Values (MERV)
                                     ASHRAE Standard 52.2
           RaiiIt      PiNtIcmCibalI ICr~                      1ciccy
                                                                   I     (AA\ cru'U      N1I tII 1,111
      MERV 2                -                   -(SI      -,' 1                                 0
   Gi 'MERV ~ '~V~'~Q
               V           -       ~      1j~o ~-10
                                                -          <iz20I~0J)~
                                                           -3   4
                                                                    V  : A<65%ane            0.3
                  -   N-TI~KIcrnis       -Allcrmnl'--+Mhcronls--------
    MIERV    1                                             < 20%       < 65%                 0.3
   1MvIERV   2                                             < 20%       65-69.9%             0.3
    MERV     3                                             < 20%       70-74.9%              0.3
    MERV     4                                             < 20%       > 75%                 0.3
                                               -        20%    34.9%           -             0.6
       MERV 9
                           -                   -        35%-49.9%              -            0.6
    2 MERV
                           -                   -        50%- 69.9%             -             0.6
       MERV
       MERV                -                   -        70% 84.9%              -             0.6
     -MERV      8
    MERV9                  -              <5 0%           > 85%                -             1.0
   3MERV 10                -           50%    -64.9%      >!85%               -              1.0
    MERVIlI                -           65%-79.9%          > 85%               -              1.0
    MERV 12                -           80% -89.9%         >90%                -              1.0
      IMERV 13         < 75%              > 90%           >90%
                                                          >                    -1.4
       MERV 14      75%.-84.9% ,          >90%            >90%                 -             1.4
       MERV 15      85%-94.9%               > 90%           > 90%             -              1.4
       MERV 16         > 95%         .        95%         > 95%,              -              1.4
5
                                                     23

     WO 2013/043987                                                        PCT/US2012/056511
                                      Exemplary Embodiments
           1.      A fine fiber comprising a core phase and a coating phase; wherein the core
   phase comprises a polymer and the coating phase comprises a resinous aldehyde
   composition; and further wherein at least a portion of the polymer is crosslinked by the
 5 resinous aldehyde composition.
           2.      The fine fiber of embodiment 1 which is prepared from a resinous aldehyde
   composition comprising reactive alkoxy groups and a polymer comprising active hydrogen
   groups, wherein the molar ratio of resinous aldehyde composition to polymer is such that the
   molar ratio of reactive alkoxy groups to active hydrogen groups is greater than 10:100.
10         3.      The fine fiber of embodiment 2 which is prepared from the resinous aldehyde
   composition and the polymer in amounts such that the resinous aldehyde composition is
   present in an amount of greater than 20 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the
   polymer.
           4.      The fine fiber of embodiment 2 wherein the active hydrogen groups comprise
15 amido or amino groups.
           5.      The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 4 comprising two phases,
   wherein the core phase comprises a mixture of the polymer and the resinous aldehyde
   composition.
           6.      The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 4 comprising three
20 phases, wherein the core phase comprises the polymer, the coating phase comprises the
   resinous aldehyde composition, and a transition phase comprises a mixture of the polymer
   and the resinous aldehyde composition.
           7.      The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 6 wherein the polymer
   comprises a nylon.
25         8.      The fine fiber of embodiment 7 wherein the nylon comprises nylon-6, nylon
   6,6, nylon-6,10, mixtures or copolymers thereof.
           9.      The fine fiber of embodiment 8 wherein the nylon comprises nylon-6-6,6
   6,10.
           10.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 9 wherein the polymer
30 comprises a polyvinyl butyral, an ethylene co-vinyl alcohol co-polymer, or a mixture thereof.
                                                  24

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
          11.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 9 wherein the polymer
   comprises a cellulose derivative selected from the group consisting of ethyl cellulose,
   hydroxyl ethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate
   propionate, cellulose acetate phthalate, and mixtures thereof.
 5        12.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 9 wherein the polymer
   comprises a poly(meth)acrylic acid homopolymer or copolymer.
          13.     The fine fiber of claim 12 wherein the polymer comprises a styrene
   (meth)acrylic acid copolymer.
          14.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 9 wherein the polymer
10 comprises a poly(maleic anhydride) homopolymer or copolymer.
          15.     The fine fiber of claim 14 wherein the polymer comprises a styrene-maleic
   anhydride copolymer.
          16.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 15 wherein the resinous
   aldehyde composition comprises a resinous formaldehyde composition.
15        17.     The fine fiber of claim 16 wherein the resinous formaldehyde composition
   comprises a resinous melamine-formaldehyde composition.
          18.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 15 wherein the resinous
   aldehyde composition comprises a melamine-aldehyde composition; and wherein the
   aldehyde comprises formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, or
20 mixtures thereof.
          19.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 15 wherein the resinous
   aldehyde composition comprises a condensation product of urea and an aldehyde, a
   condensation product of phenol and an aldehyde, a condensation product of melamine and an
   aldehyde, or a mixture thereof.
25        20.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 15 wherein the resinous
   aldehyde composition comprises a condensation product of benzoguanamine and an
   aldehyde, a condensation product of glycoluril and an aldehyde, or a mixture thereof.
          21.     A fine fiber comprising a core phase and a coating phase; wherein the core
   phase comprises nylon and the coating phase comprises a resinous melamine-aldehyde
30 composition; wherein at least a portion of the nylon is crosslinked by the resinous melamine
   aldehyde composition; and further wherein the fine fiber is prepared from a resinous
                                                  25

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
   melamine-aldehyde composition in an amount of greater than 20 parts by weight per 100
   parts by weight of the nylon.
            22.     The fine fiber of any one of embodiments 1 through 21 wherein the core phase
   further comprises a nonreactive polymer.
 5          23.     A filter media comprising a filtration substrate and a layer comprising a
   plurality of fine fibers of any one of embodiments 1 through 22 disposed on the substrate.
            24.     The filter media of embodiment 23 wherein the fine fiber layer has a thickness
   of 0.05 pt to 30 p.
            25.     The filter media of embodiment 23 or embodiment 24 wherein the filtration
10 substrate is a non-woven substrate.
            26.     The filter media of any one of embodiments 23 through 25 wherein the fine
   fiber layer is an electrospun layer and the filtration substrate comprises a cellulosic or
   synthetic nonwoven.
            27.     The fine fiber media of embodiment 26 wherein the filtration substrate
15 comprises a polyester nonwoven, a polyolefm nonwoven, or a blended nonwoven thereof.
            28.     The fine fiber media of embodiment 27 wherein the filtration substrate
   comprises polypropylene nonwoven.
            29.     The fine fiber media of any one f of embodiments 23 through 28 wherein the
   filtration substrate comprises a spunbonded or melt-blown support.
20          30.     A filter element comprising a fine fiber media of any one of embodiments 23
   through 29.
                                                    26

     WO 2013/043987                                                             PCT/US2012/056511
                                                Examples
            Objects and advantages of this disclosure are further illustrated by the following
   examples, but the particular materials and amounts thereof recited in these examples, as well as
 5 other conditions and details, should not be construed to unduly limit this disclosure.
   Test Procedures
   ESCA
10         Electron spectroscopy or chemical analysis (ESCA, also known as x-ray
   photoelectron spectroscopy or XIS) is a surface analysis technique used for obtaining
   chemical information about the surfaces of solid materials. The materials characterization
   method utilizes an x-ray beam to excite a solid sample resulting in the emission of
   photoelectrons. An energy analysis of these photoelectrons provides both elemental and
15 chemical bonding information about a sample surface. The relatively low kinetic energy of
   the photoelectrons gives ESCA a sampling depth of approximately 3          A.  ESCA can detect all
   elements from lithium to uranium with detection limits of approximately 0.1 atomic percent.
   The principal advantage of ESCA is its ability to look at a broad range of materials
   (polymers, glasses, fibers, metals, semi-conductors, paper, etc.) and to identify surface
20 constituents as well as their chemical state. This test can be used as an indicator of migration
   of the aldehyde compound to the surface of the fiber.
   Ethanol Soak Test
           A sample of fine fibers in the form of a layer disposed on a substrate is submerged in
25 ethanol (190 proof) under ambient conditions. After 1 minute, the sample is removed, dried,
   and evaluated for the amount of fine fiber layer efficiency retained as determined according
   to the procedure described in U.S. Patent No. 6,743,273 ("Fine fiber layer efficiency
   retained"). The amount of fine fiber retained is reported as a percentage of the initial amount
   of fine fibers and referred to as "fine fiber layer efficiency retained." This gives a good
30 indication of whether the degree of crosslinking achieved was sufficient to protect the bulk
   material from attack/dissolution to ethanol.
                                                    27

      WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
     Hot Water Soak Test
             A sample of fine fibers in the form of a layer disposed on a substrate is submerged in
    water previously heated to a temperature of 140'F. After 5 minutes, the sample is removed,
  5  dried, and evaluated for the amount of fine fiber layer efficiency retained as determined
    according to the procedure described in U.S. Patent No. 6,743,273 ("Fine fiber layer
    efficiency retained").   The amount of fine fiber retained is reported as a percentage of the
    initial amount of fine fibers and referred to as "fine fiber layer efficiency retained." This
    gives a good indication of whether the degree of crosslinking achieved was sufficient to
10  protect the bulk material from attack/dissolution to hot water.
    Preparation of Fine Fibers
    Reference Examples
15           Reference Example 1 (Example 5 of Chung et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,743,273)
    utilizes the formation of a surface coating layer by incorporating oligomers ofp-tert-butyl
    phenol, an additive that protects fine fibers from wet environments.
             An alternate method to improve environmental resistance involves blending a self
    crosslinkable polymer and a non-self-crosslinkable polymer, resulting in the formation of a
20  structure that is analogous to an IPN (interpenetrating network) or semi-IPN (semi
    interpenetrating network) wherein the non-crosslinkable polymer does not redissolve after
    electrospinning and heat treatment. Reference Example 2 (Example 6 of Chung et al., U.S.
    Patent No. 6,743,273) describes how such a structure can be achieved.
             Finally, Reference Example 3 (Example 6B of Chung et al., U.S. Patent No.
25  6,743,273) combines the surface coating and crosslinking methodologies described in
    Reference Examples 1 and 2, wherein a significant improvement is made in the
    environmental resistance of the fine fiber. In this method there are three important
    components: a non-self-crosslinkable fiber-forming polymer, a self-crosslinkable fiber
    forming polymer, and a non-crosslinkable surface-forming additive.
30
                                                    28

     WO 2013/043987                                                          PCT/US2012/056511
   Example 1
            Nylon copolymer resin (SVP 651 obtained from Shakespeare Co., Columbia, SC, a
   terpolymer having a number average molecular weight of 21,500-24,800 comprising 45%
   nylon-6, 20% nylon-6,6 and 25% nylon-6, 10) solutions were prepared by dissolving the
 5 polymer in alcohol (ethanol, 190 proof) and heating to 60'C to produce a 9% solids solution.
   After cooling, to the solution was added a melamine-formaldehyde resin (i.e., crosslinking
   agent) (CYMEL 1133 obtained from Cytec Industries of West Paterson, NJ). The weight
   ratio of melamine-formaldehyde resin to nylon was 20:100 parts by weight. Additionally, to
   the solution was added para-toluene sulfonic acid (7%, based on polymer solids). The
10 solution was agitated until uniform and was then electrospun to form a layer of fine fiber on a
   filtration substrate. For this example a voltage of 50 kV was used to form the fine fiber layer
   on a substrate material moving at a line speed of 9 ft/min at a distance 4 inches from the
   emitter. The substrate material was a wetlaid cellulose media from Hollingsworth and Vose
   (Grade FA 448) with an average basis weight of 68.6 lbs/3000 ft2 , average thickness of 0.011
15 inch (in), and average Frazier permeability of 16 ft/min. The fine fibers disposed on the
   substrate were thermally treated at 140'C for 10 minutes. The media layer formed had an
   initial LEFS efficiency of 76.5% and an initial pressure drop of 0.87 in of water. In this
   context, "initial" means prior to any ethanol or water soak testing. See Figure 2 for test
   results.
20
   Example 2 and 3
            Example 1 was repeated except using weight ratios of 40:100 (Example 2) and
   60:100 (Example 3) of the melamine-formaldehyde resin:nylon. Example 2 had an initial
   LEFS efficiency of 78.1% and an initial pressure drop of 0.90 in of water. Example 3 had an
25 initial LEFS efficiency of 80.3% and an initial pressure drop of 0.91 in of water. In this
   context, "initial" means prior to any ethanol or water soak testing. See Figure 2 for test
   results.
   Examples 4-8
30          Example 1 was repeated except using weight ratios of 20:100 (Example 4), 40:100
   (Example 5), 60:100 (Example 6), 80:100 (Example 7), or 100:100 (Example 8) of a
                                                  29

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   melamine-formaldehyde resin (CYMEL 1135):nylon. Also, the fine fibers disposed on the
    substrate described in Example 1 were thermally treated at 140*C for dwell times at 0
   seconds, 10 seconds, 15 seconds, 20 seconds, or 10 minutes. See Figure 3 for test results.
   Additional data for the media samples from Examples 4-8 are in Table 3.
 5
                                                 Table 3
           Fine Fiber Polymer              LEFS Efficiency               Pressure Drop
                                             (composite)                   (inch H20)
        Ex 4 (heat treated 10 min)   78.6
       Ex 5 (heat treated  10 min)   77.8
       Ex 6 (heat treated  10 min)   89.8                           0.8
       Ex 7 (heat treated  10 min)   87.8                           0.81
       Ex 8 (heat treated  10 min)   85.2                           0.77
       Ref Ex 2                      78.1                           0.84
   Examples 9-11
10         Example 1 was repeated except using equal weights of the nylon copolymer and the
   melamine-formaldehyde resin. Example 9 was formed on a wetlaid cellulose media from
   Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA 448) with an average basis weight of 68.6 lbs/3000 ft 2 ,
   average thickness of 0.011 inch, and average Frazier permeability of 16 ft/min. Example 10
   was formed on a wetlaid polyester/cellulose media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA
15 352) with an average basis weight of 70 lbs/3000 ft2 , average thickness of 0.012 inch, and
   average Frazier permeability of 14 ft/min, and Example 11 was formed on a wetlaid
   polyester/glass media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA 316) with an average basis
   weight of 70 lbs/3000 ft2, average thickness of 0.021 inch, and average Frazier permeability
   of 31 ft/min. See Figures 1, 4A/B, and 5 for test results.
20
   Example 12
           Example 1 was repeated except using a different melamine-formaldehyde resin (sold
   as RESIMENE HMv 2608 by 1NEOS Melamines) and a weight ratio of nylon:melamine
   formaldehyde of 100:40. The fine fiber sample was formed on a wetlaid cellulose media
25 from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA 448) with an average basis weight of 68.6 lbs/3000
                                                 30

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   ft2 , average thickness of 0.011 inch, and average Frazier permeability of 16 ft/min. See
   Figure 15 for test results.
   Example 13-15
 5           Example 12 was repeated except using a blend of the nylon copolymer and a
   nonreactive polymer (poly(4-vinyl pyridine) (P4VP)) using a nylon solution of 6% solids in
   ethanol. The weight ratio of nylon:P4VP was 100:50. The melamine-formaldehyde resins
   from Examples 1 and 12 were used. For Examples 13 and 14, the weight ratios of
   nylon:melamine-formaldehyde resin (SVP 651:CYMEL 1133) were 100:40 and 100:100,
10 respectively. For Example 15, the weight ratio of nylon:melamine-formaldehyde resin (SVP
   651:RESIMENE HMV 2608) was 100:40. The samples were formed on a wetlaid cellulose
   media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA 448) with an average basis weight of 68.6
   lbs/3000 ft2, average thickness of 0.011 inch, and average Frazier permeability of 16 ft/min.
   See Figure 15 for test results.
15
   Examples 16-17
             Fine fiber samples were prepared using poly(vinyl butyral) ("PVB") 60T and 60HH
   donated by Kuraray America, Inc. of Houston, TX. According to Kuraray, the percent of
   reactive OH groups for 60T=24-27% and for the 60HH=12-16%. For the 60T (Example 16),
20 a 7% solution, and for the 60HH (Example 17) a 6% solution, in 190 proof ethanol was
   prepared (solutions were not heated). The solutions employed for preparing the fine fiber
   samples also contained melamine-formaldehyde resin (herein "ME" or simply "melamine
   resin") (CYMEL 1133), such that the weight ratio of ME:PVB was 40:100. An acid catalyst
   was used as in Example 1. Once spun (using the procedure of Example 1), the fine fiber
25 samples were subsequently subjected to thermal treatment (as in Example 1) to facilitate the
   crosslinking reaction between OH groups present in PVB and the alkoxy (methoxy and
   butoxy in this case) groups of the melamine resin. The samples were formed (as in Example
    1) on a wetlaid cellulose media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA 448) with an
   average basis weight of 68.6 lbs/3000 ft2, average thickness of 0.011 inch, and average
30 Frazier permeability of 16 ft/min. See Figure 16 for test results.
                                                   31

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   Examples 18-19
             Fine fiber samples were prepared using poly(vinyl butyral) ("PVB") 60T and 60HH
   donated by Kuraray America, Inc. of Houston, TX. The percent of reactive OH groups for
   60T=24-27% and for the 60HH=12-16%. For the 60T (Example 18), a 7% solution, and for
 5 the 60HH (Example 19), a 6% solution, in 190 proof ethanol, were prepared (solutions were
   not heated). The solutions employed for preparing the fine fiber samples also contained
   melamine resin (RESIMENE HMA 2608) in an amount such that the weight ratio of ME:PVB
   was 40:100. An acid catalyst was used as in Example 1. Once spun (using the procedure of
   Example 1), the fine fiber samples were subsequently subjected to thermal treatment (as in
10 Example 1) to facilitate the crosslinking reaction between OH groups present in PVB and the
   alkoxy (methoxy and butoxy in this case) groups of the melamine resin. The samples were
   formed (as in Example 1) on a wetlaid cellulose media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade
   FA 448) with an average basis weight of 68.6 lbs/3000 ft2 , average thickness of 0.011 inch,
   and average Frazier permeability of 16 ft/min. See Figure 16 for test results.
15
   Example 20
             Fine fiber samples were prepared using polyacrylic acid (PAA) obtained from
   Aldrich Chemicals (Mw approximately 450,000; Tg approximately 106*C). The solutions
   employed (in 190 proof ethanol) for preparing the fine fiber samples also contained
20 melamine resin (ME) (PAA:ME of 100:60) (CYMEL 1133). The solutions were not heated
   but an acid catalyst was used as in Example 1. Once spun (using the procedure of Example
    1), the fine fiber samples were subsequently subjected to thermal treatment (as in Example 1)
   to facilitate the crosslinking reaction between the COOH groups present in PAA and the
   alkoxy (methoxy and butoxy in this case) groups of the melamine resin. The samples were
25 formed (as in Example 1) on the cellulose media of Example 1. The measured fiber diameter
   ranged from 200 nm to 300 nm. See Figures 12 and 13 for test results.
   Example 21
             Fine fiber samples were prepared using poly(vinyl butyral) (PVB) 60T donated by
30 Kuraray America, Inc. of Houston, TX. The solutions employed for preparing the fine fiber
   samples also contained melamine (ME) resin (PVB:ME 100:60) (CYMEL 1133). The
                                                   32

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   solutions were not heated but an acid catalyst was used as in Example 1. Once spun (using
   the procedure of Example 1), the fine fiber samples were subsequently subjected to thermal
   treatment (as in Example 1) to facilitate the crosslinking reaction between OH groups present
   in PVB and the alkoxy (methoxy and butoxy in this case) groups of the melamine resin. The
 5 samples were formed (as in Example 1) on the cellulose media of Example 1. The measured
   fiber diameter ranged from 200 nm to 300 nm. See Figure 14 for test results.
   Examples 22-24
            Fine fiber samples were prepared as in Examples 4-8 using CYMEL 1135 except
10 using weight ratios of 20:100 (Example 22), 40:100 (Example 23), and 100:100 (Example
   24) of the melamine-formaldehyde resin:nylon. Also, the substrate material on which the
   fine fibers were collected was stationary and samples were collected for 5 minutes. These
   samples were thermally treated at 140*C for 10 minutes. See Table 4 for test results.
15 Examples 25-29
            Fine fiber samples were prepared as in Example 1 using CYMEL 1133 except using
   weight ratios of 0:100 (Example 25 or "Pure PA" (nylon with no melamine-formaldehyde
   resin)), 5:100 (Example 26), 10:100 (Example 27), 20:100 (Example 28), and 60:100
   (Example 29) of the melamine-formaldehyde resin:nylon. Also, the substrate material on
20 which the fine fibers were collected was stationary and samples were collected for 5 minutes.
   And, a portion of each sample was thermally treated at 140*C for 10 minutes, and a portion
   was not. See Table 6 for test results.
   Examples 30-33
25          Fine fiber samples were prepared as in Example 1 using CYMEL 1133 except using
   weight ratios of 60:100 (Examples 30-32) and 40:100 (Example 33) of the melamine
   formaldehyde resin:nylon. Also, the substrate material on which the fine fibers were
   collected was moving at a line speed of 5 ft/min. See Table 7 for test results.
30
                                                   33

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
   Results: Bulk Properties of the Fine Fibers
           The fine fiber samples produced in Examples 1-33 had an average fiber diameter of
   no greater than 10 microns. Typically, they possessed average fiber diameters ranging from
   200 nm to 400 num, as measured by Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). Certain of the
 5 samples were evaluated for fiber morphology, particle capture efficiency (LEFS -- particle
   capture efficiency at 0.8 ptm latex particles, bench operating at 20 ft/min per ASTM Standard
   F1215-89), humidity resistance, and crosslinking efficiency.
   Fiber Morphology
10         A key feature of the fine fibers of the present disclosure is the absence of any adverse
   effect of the resinous aldehyde composition on the fiber formation properties of the polymer
   used. Figure 1 compares the SEM images of the fibers obtained from Reference Example 2
   and a fiber of Example 9 ("polyamide:melamine= 1:1" or nylon:melamine-formaldehyde
   weight ratio of 1:1). Both fiber layers were formed on the same substrate material. Clearly
15 both fiber formation and the resulting fiber diameters are very similar. The absence of an
   adverse effect of the resinous aldehyde composition (melamine-formaldehyde resin in this
   example) on the fiber forming ability of the polymer (nylon in this example) suggests that
   particle capture efficiency would be largely unaffected as well. Figure 2 confirms this
   assertion with respect to the fine fibers of Examples 1-3.
20
   Crosslinking Kinetics
           In addition, the crosslinking reaction can be carried out as fast as Reference Example
   2 (see Figure 3). The figure compares the crosslinking kinetics of the fiber of Reference
   Example 2 (a methoxy-methyl nylon-6) with fine fibers of the present disclosure (Examples
25 4-8) by comparing the amount of fine fiber layer efficiency retained after an ethanol soak test
   (for 1 min). Soaking an electrospun fine fiber sample in ethanol gives a good indication of
   whether the degree of crosslinking achieved was sufficient to protect the bulk material from
   attack/dissolution. All fiber layers were formed on the same substrate. Dwell time refers to
   the exposure time at an elevated temperature to which the samples were subjected after fiber
30 formation. Fine fiber efficiency retained on samples subjected to the ethanol soak indicate
   that crosslinking was sufficient to provide the desired protection.
                                                   34

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
   Effect of Melamine-Formaldehyde Content on Wetting Behavior
           The aqueous contact angle on the fiber webs of Examples 22-24 was measured for the
 5 various melamine-fonnaldehyde resin to nylon weight ratios). Table 4 shows an increase in
   wetting angle (compared to Reference Example 2), as expected, but the trend relative to
   melamine-formaldehyde content was not what was expected.
                                                     Table 4
10                                      Composition vs. Contact Angle
           Composition                     Initial         After 5 sec.            After 30 sec.
           Ref. Ex 2                       69.4            68.7                    67.4
           Ex 22                           88.8            88.7                    88.4
           Ex 23                           81.3            81.1                    81.0
15         Ex 24                           78.0            77.5                    77.0
           On Reference Example 2 fiber mats, droplets were absorbed into substrate after 100
   seconds. On the fine fiber mats of Examples 22-24, droplets did not disappear after 100
   seconds.
20
   Effect of Catalyst Level
           The recommended catalyst level of melamine-formaldehyde resin is usually less than
   2% of solids (for typical three-dimensional products such as films). In the case of one
   dimensional fibers, a higher level of catalyst is desired to obtain sufficiently fast crosslinking
25 speed. It is believed that the active catalyst species has to travel along the fiber axis, instead
   of along usual three dimensional directions. Thus, preferred catalyst concentrations are at
   least 4 wt-%, based on polymer solids for preferred crosslinking rates.
   Environmental Resistance
30         Adding the melamine-formaldehyde resin results in both crosslinking and fiber
   surface protection due to the migration of the melamine-formaldehyde resin. The contact
                                                    35

     WO 2013/043987                                                         PCT/US2012/056511
   angle data described in Table 4 suggests that while melamine-formaldehyde resin is on the
   surface, the presence of melamine-formaldehyde resin does not necessarily lead to a higher
   contact angle. From an environmental-resistance perspective, the effects of ethanol and
   humidity were tested on different filter media (flat sheet) of Reference Example 2 fiber
 5 versus the fine fibers of Examples 9-11 (melamine-formaldehyde:nylon weight ratio of 1:1).
   Figures 4A and 4B show that following ethanol and hot water soak both materials
   demonstrate similar levels of fine fiber layer efficiency retained.
           To test the longer term impact of humid environments the filter media were tested in
   a temperature-humidity chamber (THC) (exposure times are on the x-axis; test procedure as
10 described in U.S. Patent No. 6,743,273 wherein T=140" F, 100% RH, and flow rate of 10
   ft/min). In Figure 5, the fibers of Examples 9-11 clearly exhibit better humidity resistance at
    100% RH (Relative Humidity) and 140'F due to the surface migration and crosslinking
   ability of the melamine-formaldehyde additive. Also included in the plot are results for
   Reference Example. Three different substrates were used as described in Table 5).
15         Additional data for the filter media samples used in Figures 4-5 are shown in Table
   5. In Table 5, "initial" means prior to any ethanol or water soak testing.
                                                Table 5
           Fine Fiber Polymer             Substrate      LEFS Efficiency     Pressure Drop
                                                            (composite)       (inch H20)
      Figure 4A
      Ex 9                              1               84.6 (initial)        0.86 (initial)
      Ref Ex 2                          1               83.8 (initial)       0.87 (initial)
      Ex 10                             2               76 (initial)          0.88 (initial)
      Ref Ex 2                          2               74.5 (initial)        0.88 (initial)
      Ex 11                             3               74.8 (initial)        0.5 (initial)
      Ref Ex 2                          3               71.3 (initial)        0.52 (initial)
      Figure 4B
      Ex 9                              1               81.6  (initial)      0.84   (initial)
      Ref Ex 2                          1               77.6  (initial)       0.79  (initial)
      Ex 10                             2               72.7  (initial)      0.84   (initial)
      Ref Ex 2                          2               66.8  (initial)      0.77   (initial)
      Ex 11                             3               76.7  (initial)      0.49   (initial)
      Ref Ex 2                          3               69.6  (initial)      0.54   (initial)
                                                   36

      WO 2013/043987                                                          PCT/US2012/056511
       Figure 5
       Ex 9                              1              84.1 (initial)         0.83 (initial)
       Ref Ex 2                          1              83.4 (initial)         0.82 (initial)
       Ex 10                             2              81.3 (initial)         0.92 (initial)
       Ref Ex 2                          2              80.5 (initial)         0.86 (initial)
       Ex 11                             3              73 (initial)           0.46 (initial)
       Ref Ex 2                          3              73.4 (initial)         0.53 (initial)
            Substrate 1: wetlaid cellulose media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA 448)
    with an average basis weight of 68.6 lbs/3000 ft2, average thickness of 0.011 inch, and
    average Frazier permeability of 16 ft/min.
  5         Substrate 2: .wetland polyester/cellulose media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade
    FA 352) with an average basis weight of 70 lbs/3000 ft2, average thickness of 0.012 inch, and
    average Frazier permeability of 14 ft/min.
            Substrate 3: wetlaid polyester/glass media from Hollingsworth and Vose (Grade FA
    316) with an average basis weight of 70 lbs/3000 ft 2 , average thickness of 0.021 inch, and
10  average Frazier permeability of 31 ft/min.
    Effect of Different Melamine-Formaldehyde Resins
            Figure 15 shows the fine fiber layer efficiency retention data (after exposure to the
    alcohol soak test) for the fine fibers of Examples 2 and 12-13. This data demonstrates that
15  fine fibers of the disclosure can be formed using different types of melamine-formaldehyde
    resin (Example 2 using CYMEL 1133 and Example 12 using RESIMENE HMIv 2608).
    CYMEL 1133 does not self-crosslink whereas RESIMENE HM2608 does self-crosslink.
    The fine fibers of Examples 13-15 demonstrate that the fine fiber layer efficiency retention
    can be controlled by the amount and type of melamine-formaldehyde resin.
20
    Effect of Number of Active Hydrogen Groups on LEFS
            Figure 16 demonstrates that even with low percentages of active hydrogen groups
    (12-16% OH groups) good fiber crosslinking was achieved (as demonstrated by post-ethanol
    soak LEFS results) in Examples 16-19.
25
                                                   37

     WO 2013/043987                                                        PCT/US2012/056511
   Results: Surface Properties of the Fine Fibers
   Surface Analysis of Fine Fibers from Polyamide and Melamine Resin
           XPS Data
 5         The wetting results (contact angle; Table 4) clearly suggest that fiber surface
   undergoes some sort of modification. In order to better understand the surface phenomena,
   ESCA analysis was conducted at Evans Analytical Group, Chaska, MN. By looking at
   binding energy level 533 eV (reflects C-O from melamine) and 531 eV (reflects C=O of
   amide linkage), the relative composition on the surface to a depth of 5 nm was evaluated.
10 Because pure polyamide fiber mat (without the melamine-formaldehyde crosslinker) also
   shows some presence of C-O linkage, it is difficult to perform a detailed quantitative
   analysis. The results of the ESCA analysis are shown in Table 6. A consistent trend of an
   increase of the C-O area in the surface layer with increasing melamine-formaldehyde resin
   content was observed. This clearly confirms surface migration of the melamine
15 formaldehyde resin with increasing melamine-formaldehyde resin content. "Pure ME" refers
   to the melamine-formaldehyde composition used tested received (in liquid form) and
   thermally treated at 140'C for 10 minutes.
                                               Table 6
20                           Oxygen Chemical States (in % of total 0)
   Composition            Thermal Treatment         C=O % area          C-O % area
   Pure ME                        Yes                    -                      100
25
   Ex 25 (Pure PA)               No                      84                      16
   Ex 26                         No                      89                      11
                                  Yes                    84                      16
30
   Ex 27                         No                      76                      24
                                  Yes                    73                      27
   Ex 29                         No                      26                      74
35                                Yes                    41                      59
                                                  38

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
            C60 ion gun sputtering
            Additionally, systematic depth profiling experiments were conducted on the pure
   polyamide fibers of Reference Example 1 and the Example 29 fine fibers using a C60
   (buckminsterfullerene or buckyball) ion gun. This technique results in surface layer-by-layer
 5 removal due to the sputtering; with negligible overall sample damage. For the pure
   polyamide fibers of Reference Example 1 there is negligible change in the C, N, and 0 (C Is,
   NIs, and Ols) concentration with sputtering time (see Figure 6). In addition, negligible
   changes in the Cl s spectrum are observed (see Figure 7) for Reference Example 1.
            In contrast, the depth profiling experiments on the Example 29 fine finger shows
10 significant changes taking place. Spectral changes are quite dramatic in the beginning and
   slower for higher sputtering times (see Figure 8).
            Figure 9 upper shows that the surface composition of a fiber of the disclosure
   (Example 29) is different than the bulk fiber composition. The surface composition is higher
   in nitrogen and oxygen and lower in carbon than the bulk of the fiber. The C1s profile is
15 separated into two components: 1) contribution from melamine and 2) from the nylon
   (Figure 9 lower). Separating the CIs profile one sees an increase in the contribution from the
   nylon component with sputtering time until it becomes constant. Correspondingly, one
   observes a decrease in the Cls contribution from the coating component. Based on the
   results shown in the figure, three regions can be identified: (1) the top initial layer (5 nm or
20 so) corresponding up to 1 min sputter time is the melamine-formaldehyde resin layer; (2) a
   large middle region (1 min to 40 min sputter time) where the layer consists of a mixture of
   melamine-formaldehyde resin and nylon and (3) the bottom regions (40-60 min sputter time)
   indicating a dominant presence of the polyamide (nylon). Thus, in contrast to Reference
   Examples 2 and 3, the addition of melamine-formaldehyde resin at a level of 60:100 (i.e., 60
25 parts resinous aldehyde composition to 100 parts polymer) (Example 29) confers a three
   level structure: a very high concentration of melamine-formaldehyde resin on the surface, a
   varying ratio in the middle layer, and, finally, a dominance of polyamide (nylon) in the
   interior (see Figure 11A).
           It is expected that lowering the melamine-formaldehyde content (e.g., below a weight
30 ratio of 20:100) would affect the three-level structure, which would eventually lead to a more
   homogenous distribution of the melamine-formaldehyde resin through the fiber cross-section.
                                                   39

     WO 2013/043987                                                          PCT/US2012/056511
   In contrast to the data in Figure 9 lower (fibers of Example 29), the melamine CIs
   concentration decreases in a steady manner (Figure 10, fibers of Example 28), after an initial
   drop, but then does not level off as it does in Figure 9 lower. This suggests that the
   melamine-formaldehyde resin coating is significantly thinner and a majority of the melamine
 5 is distributed throughout the cross-section of the fiber (see Figure 11B). This clearly gives
   credence to the hypothesis that a large increase in resinous aldehyde resin beyond (i.e.,
   greater than) a weight ratio of resinous aldehyde composition to polymer material of the fine
   fibers of Example 28 (20:100, i.e., 20 parts resinous aldehyde composition to 100 parts
   polymer) results in both surface migration (altering fiber surface properties) and traditional
10 crosslinking, thereby improving bulk properties.
   Surface Analysis of Fine Fiber from Polyacrylic Acid and Melamine Resin
            The surface of the fine fiber of Example 20 was analyzed by Evans Analytical Groups
   using ESCA. As expected from the polyamide results, melamine-formaldehye clearly
15 migrates to the surface as indicated by the high concentration of atomic N (Figure 12). The
   CIs spectrum in Figure 13 shows the most dramatic changes in the depth profile occurred
   within the first 3 to 5 minutes of sputtering (C60). The sputtering data shows that CIs
   spectrum changed from the one consistent with the melamine based coating to the one
   resembling that of PAA Control fibers (prepared as the fibers of Example 20 without the
20 melamine-formaldehyde resin).
            The spectrum shows that there was still a significant concentration in the middle of
   the spectrum, around 287eV, between hydrocarbon and O-C=O lines. This intensity is
   probably consistent with residual melamine-formaldehyde resin. Interestingly, it drops and
   then remains at the 10 atom %level throughout the rest of the profile. The fact that this
25 residual coating was not removed by the sputter beam may be associated with the surface
   roughness of the material. Unlike the polyamide samples, the PAA samples (both PAA
   Control and Example 20 samples) show tremendous adhesion to the cellulose substrate and
   thereby could not be separated from the substrate without leaving adhered fine fiber, thereby
   explaining the surface roughness phenomenon.
30
                                                   40

     WO 2013/043987                                                          PCT/US2012/056511
    Surface Analysis of Fine Fibers from Poly(vinyl butyral) and Melamine Resin
            The surface of the fibers of Example 21 was analyzed by Evans Analytical Groups
   using ESCA with results shown in Figure 14. PVB appeared to have a melamine
   formaldehyde resin coating based on the presence of high level N and the shape of C1s
 5  spectra (Figure 14). As anticipated, both N and 0 concentrations decreased gradually over
   the course of the depth profile, while the C content increased. However, the changes
   observed in the depth profile of fibers of Example 21 (and PVB Control fibers, which were
   prepared as the fibers of Example 21 without the melamine-formaldehyde resin) possibly
   reflect the deterioration (under the ion beam) of the material and as such no interface was
10 observed in this profile.
   High Efficiency Filter Media
            Filter media with high particle removal efficiency was manufactured using the
   polymers and fibers from this disclosure. The materials tested for filtration efficiency as
15 shown in Table 7 were manufactured as described above for Examples 30-33.
                                                 Table 7
            Example No.           LEFS Efficiency (composite)       Pressure Drop (in H2O)
                 Ex 30                         93.6                             0.83
                 Ex 31                         94.1                             0.77
                 Ex 32                         92.6                             0.78
                 Ex 33                         94.3                             0.79
   Discussion of Results
20          Phenolic resin, epoxy resin, and melamine resin can be used as a crosslinker of
   polyamide resin. Use of melamine resin as one possible crosslinker among others has been
   disclosed in Lodhi et al., US Patent Publication No. 2007/0082393A1 and Chen et al.,
   International Patent Publication WO 2009/064767A2. Additionally, Ballard, U.S. Patent No.
   4,992,515 discloses the uses of melamine-formaldehyde resin to obtain crosslinked nylon
25 terpolymer for use as coatings in sewing applications. However, in all cases, the use of the
   melamine resin is limited to its potential as a crosslinker for polyamide terpolymer. In
   conventional crosslinking applications, the crosslinker is employed in amounts sufficient
                                                    41

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
   (typically less than 15 wt-% base on polymer) to crosslink the polymer to a degree that
   comports with the desired end properties. For example, in fiber formation, excess
   crosslinking of the polymer material leads to brittleness and loss of elasticity.
           Nevertheless, in the present disclosure, it has been found'that a relatively large
 5 amount of a resinous aldehyde composition in the fiber formation, e.g., an amount of
   melamine-aldehyde composition, that is higher than 20 weight percent unexpectedly results
   in drastic improvements in both bulk and surface properties when employed with a polymer
   material that is crosslinkable with the resinous aldehyde composition. These properties arise
   without sacrificing the fiber-forming ability of the polymer solution. In contrast, the other
10 types of crosslinkers (phenolic and epoxy) can have an adverse impact on the bulk properties,
   and do not affect surface properties (e.g., contact angle).
            When the polymer material is a polyamide/nylon blend, for example, use of an excess
   or a resinous aldehyde composition, such as a melamine-aldehyde composition, results in
   increased tensile strength relative to the polyamide fibers (without the melamine-aldehyde)
15 composition. Further, the surface properties of the fibers of the disclosure are improved, as
   evidenced by an increase in the contact angle of polar liquids on the fine fiber webs of the
   disclosure relative to polyamide fine fibers in the absence of the resinous aldehyde
   composition.
            The ratios of polymer material to aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition
20 employed in conventional mixtures or blends where the aldehyde composition is employed as
   a crosslinker, the weight ratios of aldehyde composition to polymer material, typically range,
   for example, from 0.1:100 to 5:100. In the case of polyamide mixtures or blends with
   resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition, as high as 15:100 or even 18:100
   (aldehyde composition:polymer material) have been used. Such ratios lead to mixtures or
25 blends of polyamide and resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) that are either simply
   crosslinking in nature or are substantially uniform in composition throughout the fibers
   formed therefrom.
            However, the weight ratios of polymer material to aldehyde composition employed to
   form the fibers of the disclosure preferably range from 100:20 to 100:200, for example, in
30 some embodiments 100:200 to 100:100, in other embodiments 100:175 to 100:25, in other
   embodiments 100:175 to 100:125, in other embodiments 100:150 to 100:30, in other
                                                   42

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
    embodiments 100:150 to 100:75, in other embodiments 100:125 to 100:40, in other
    embodiments 100:125 to 100:60, in other embodiments 100:125 to 100:50, in other
    embodiments 100:100 to 100:50, and in other embodiments 100:100 to 100:60.
   Unexpectedly, such ratios lead to formation of the exterior resinous aldehyde (e.g.,
 5 melamine-aldehyde) layer and the dramatic improvements in bulk and surface properties.
            Without being limited as to theory, it is believed that the reason these benefits occur
   is that once the polymer material is crosslinked, the remaining aldehyde composition forms a
   shell and coats the surface of the fiber as the fiber is formed. The coating is compositionally
   different from the interior of the fiber, wherein a core-shell type morphology results. Thus,
10 when formed into a fiber, the blend of polymer material and resinous aldehyde (e.g.,
   melamine-aldehyde) composition, at appropriate mixing or blending ratios, forms at least two
   concentric phases. The fibers of the disclosure have an inner or core phase that includes the
   polymer material, and at least one concentric phase surrounding the inner phase that includes
   the resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition. The presence of the resinous
15 aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition phase at the outer surface of the fibers of
   the disclosure, in turn, gives rise to enhanced performance parameters when a fibrous web of
   the disclosure is formed on a substrate and subsequently employed in a filtration application.
            Turning to Figure 11A/B, two observed embodiments of the concentric phase fiber
   formation is shown. Figure 11A represents a first embodiment, wherein a cross-sectional
20 representation of a single fine fiber 100 of the disclosure and its layered structure is shown.
   The first phase 10 is an internal axial polymer phase that includes the polymer material,
   wherein the polymer material is the only material in the phase, or it is at least 50 wt-%
   (weight percent) of the material in the phase, and preferably the predominant material
   (greater than 50 wt-% of the material in that phase). The first phase includes, in various
25 embodiments of fiber 100, between 50 wt-% and 100 wt-% polymer material, or in some
   embodiments between 75 wt-% and 95 wt-% of the polymer material. The balance of the
   first phase 10 is, in some embodiments, the aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition.
   The first phase is surrounded by a second coating phase 20 that includes both the polymer
   material and the resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition, wherein the
30 weight ratio of polymer material to resinous aldehyde composition is less than that of the first
   phase 10 and wherein the second phase includes between 10 wt-% and 75 wt-% polymer
                                                    43

     WO 2013/043987                                                           PCT/US2012/056511
   material, or in some embodiments between 25 wt-% and 50 wt-% polymer material.
   Depending on the particular polymer material chosen and the amount of reactive aldehyde
   composition selected, some proportion of the resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde)
   composition of the second phase 20 can crosslink polymer chains contiguous the internal
 5 axial polymer phase 10. In other words, some proportion of the resinous aldehyde (e.g.,
   melamine-aldehyde) composition causes some degree of crosslinking of available reactive
   moieties of the polymer material in the first phase 10, including active hydrogen moieties,
   pendant to the polymer backbone and contiguous to second phase 20.         The fine fiber 100
   additionally contains a third exterior phase 30 that includes a majority, that is, greater than 50
10 wt-% or more of the resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition, wherein the
   weight ratio of polymer material to resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-aldehyde) composition
   is less than that of the second phase 20 and wherein the third phase includes between 0 wt-%
   and 50 wt-% polymer material, or in some embodiments between 5 wt-% and 25 wt-%
   polymer material.
15          The three phase embodiment of the disclosure as shown in Figure 11A is formed, in
   some embodiments, where the polymer material is a polyamide and the resinous aldehyde
   composition is a melamine-formaldehyde composition, further wherein the fiber is
   electrospun from a blend of polyamide:melamine-formaldehyde weight ratio of 100:100 to
   100:25, or 100:75: to 100:50, or 100:60. While it is known to crosslink a polyamide with a
20 melamine-formaldehyde composition, the weight ratios employed to form the fine fibers of
   the disclosure are not reflective of the ratios conventionally used to incur crosslinking of a
   polyamide with a melamine composition. Conventional weight ratios of polymer to
   crosslinker are, for example, 100:0.1 to 100:5 (or, alternatively stated, resinous aldehyde
   composition:polymer of 0.1:100 to 5:100). However, it is advantageous to use significantly
25 higher amounts of resinous aldehyde composition, as mentioned above, to form the fiber of
   the disclosure, because of the unexpected and surprising result that the phase separation and
   concomitant core-shell type morphology formed translates to significant performance
   improvements, as will be discussed further below.
             Figure 11 B represents a second embodiment of the disclosure, wherein a cross
30 sectional representation of a single fine fiber 102 of the disclosure is shown. The first phase
    12 is an internal axial polymer phase that typically includes a mixture of the polymer
                                                    44

     WO 2013/043987                                                        PCT/US2012/056511
   material and the resinous aldehyde composition. The first phase includes, in various
   embodiments of fiber 102, between 25 wt-% and 100 wt-% polymer material, or in some
   embodiments between 50 wt-% and 75 wt-% polymer material. The balance of the first
   phase 12 is, in some embodiments, the resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-formaldehyde)
 5 composition. The first phase 12 is surrounded by a second coating phase 22 that includes a
   majority, that is, greater than 50 wt-% or more, of the resinous aldehyde composition, and
   wherein the weight ratio of polymer material to resinous aldehyde composition is less than
   that of the first phase 12. Depending on the particular polymer material chosen and the
   amount of reactive melamine composition selected, some proportion of the reactive
10 melamine composition of the second phase 22 can crosslink polymer chains contiguous the
   internal axial polymer phase 12. In other words, some proportion of the resinous aldehyde
   composition causes some degree of crosslinking of available reactive moieties of the polymer
   material in the first phase 12, including active hydrogen moieties, pendant to the polymer
   backbone and contiguous to second phase 22.
15          In three-phase embodiments of the disclosure, the outer coating phase can be
   characterized as a region wherein the resinous aldehyde comprises greater than 50 molar %
   of the coating composition and the core phase comprises a region where the polymer material
   comprises greater than 50 molar % of the core composition. In addition, the crosslinked
   transition phase between the outer coating phase and the core phase is characterized by a
20 non-homogenous composition wherein the molar % of the resinous aldehyde decreases from
   the coating phase to the core phase. In some embodiments, the core phase is a homogenous
   composition with a relatively high percentage of polymer material and a relatively low
   percentage of resinous aldehyde and the coating phase is a homogenous composition with a
   relatively low percentage of polymer material and a relatively high percentage of resinous
25 aldehyde. In some embodiments, the polymer material comprises greater than 75 molar % of
   the composition of the core phase. In some embodiments, the resinous aldehyde comprises
   greater than 75 molar % of the coating phase.
            The two phase embodiment shown in Figure I1B is formed, in some embodiments,
   where the polymer material is a polyamide and the resinous aldehyde composition is a
30 melamine-formaldehyde composition, further wherein the fiber is electrospun from a blend
   of polyamide:melamine-formaldehyde weight ratio of 100:50 to 100:10, or 100:25: to
                                                   45

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
    100:15, or 100:20. While it is known to crosslink a polyamide with a melamine
   formaldehyde composition, the weight ratios employed to form the fine fibers of the
   disclosure are not reflective of the ratios conventionally used to incur crosslinking of a
   polyamide with a melamine-formaldehyde composition. Conventional weight ratios of
 5 polymer to crosslinker are, for example, 100:0.1 to 100:5 (or, alternatively stated, resinous
   aldehyde composition:polymer of 0.1:100 to 5:100). However, we have found it
   advantageous to use significantly higher amounts of resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine
   formaldehyde) composition, as mentioned above, to form the fiber of the disclosure, because
   of the unexpected and surprising result that the phase separation and concomitant core-shell
10 type morphology formed translates to significant performance improvements, as will be
   discussed further below.
            The two- or three-phase embodiments shown in Figure 11AIB as well as other
   morphologies are envisioned and are within the scope of the disclosure. Such morphologies
   arise by varying the type and amount of polymer material and resinous aldehyde
15 composition, and further by varying the method employed to form the fine fibers of the
   disclosure (electrospinning, melt-blowing, rotary spinning and the like). The fine fibers are
   made with a ratio of resinous aldehyde (e.g., melamine-formaldehyde) composition to
   polymer material that includes a surprisingly large amount of resinous aldehyde (e.g.,
   melamine-aldehyde) composition, that is, an amount that is substantially greater than the
20 amount required for the resinous aldehyde composition to crosslink available reactive
   polymer moieties in a conventional blend. The excess amount is available to form one or
   more coating phases, and/or exterior phases similar to the morphologies shown in Figure
   11A/B. The exterior coating layer, e.g., of melamine-formaldehyde, results in improved
   filtration properties, including heat and humidity resistance of the fine fibers and fine fiber
25 layers of the disclosure. The exterior coating layer also affects the surface properties of the
   fine fiber layer. It has been observed that the presence of a high proportion of aldehyde resin
   in the outer layer of the fine fibers results in an increase of the observed contact angle for
   water of a web of the fine fibers of the disclosure. Without being limited by theory, it is
   believed that the melamine resin (or other resinous aldehyde) migrates faster to the surface of
30 the fine fibers due to the small diameter of the fine fibers. This faster migration allows the
   coating to form faster on the fine fiber than it does on larger fibers manufactured by other
                                                     46

     WO 2013/043987                                                            PCT/US2012/056511
   manufacturing processes. Regarding the fiber morphologies of the fine fibers of the
   disclosure, it is surprising that the excess aldehyde composition would phase separate from
   the polymer material in the manner observed, wherein the aldehyde composition forms a
   coating phase on the exterior of the fiber, yet interacts to crosslink sufficient polymer chains
 5 in the contiguous phase. As a result, the fine fibers of the disclosure present the
   advantageous characteristics of flexibility of the polyamide with added strength and
   environmental stability associated with, e.g., melamine-aldehyde resins.
           The complete disclosures of the patents, patent documents, and publications cited
   herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each were individually
10 incorporated. While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative
   forms, specifics thereof have been shown by way of example and drawings, and will be
   described in detail. It should be understood, however, that the disclosure is not limited to the
   particular embodiments described. On the contrary, the intention is to cover modifications,
   equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure.
15
                                                    47

                                                CLAIMS
   1.      A filter media comprising a filtration substrate and a layer comprising a plurality of
   fine fibers, the fine fibers comprising a core phase and a coating phase; wherein the core
 5 phase comprises a polymer and the coating phase comprises a resinous aldehyde
   composition; wherein at least a portion of the polymer is crosslinked by the resinous aldehyde
   composition; and further wherein the fine fiber does not include polyvinyl alcohol
   crosslinked with melamine-formaldehyde.
 0 2.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the fine fibers are prepared from a resinous
   aldehyde composition comprising reactive alkoxy groups and a polymer comprising active
   hydrogen groups, wherein the molar ratio of resinous aldehyde composition to polymer is
   such that the molar ratio of reactive alkoxy groups to active hydrogen groups is greater than
   10:100.
 5
   3.      The filter media of claim 2 wherein the active hydrogen groups comprise amido or
   amino groups.
   4.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the fine fibers are prepared from the resinous
 0 aldehyde composition and the polymer in amounts such that the resinous aldehyde
   composition is present in an amount of greater than 20 parts by weight per 100 parts by
   weight of the polymer.
   5.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the core phase comprises a mixture of the
25 polymer and the resinous aldehyde composition.
   6.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the fine fibers comprise three phases, wherein the
   core phase comprises the polymer, the coating phase comprises the resinous aldehyde
   composition, and a transition phase comprises a mixture of the polymer and the resinous
30 aldehyde composition.
   7.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises a nylon.
                                                   48

   8.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the nylon comprises nylon-6, nylon-6,6, nylon
   6,10, mixtures or copolymers thereof.
   9.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the nylon comprises nylon-6-6,6-6,10.
 5
   10.     The filter media of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises a polyvinyl butyral, an
   ethylene co-vinyl alcohol co-polymer, or a mixture thereof.
   11.     The filter media of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises a cellulose derivative
 0 selected from the group consisting of ethyl cellulose, hydroxyl ethyl cellulose, cellulose
   acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, cellulose acetate phthalate,
   and mixtures thereof.
   12.     The filter media of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises a poly(meth)acrylic acid
 5 homopolymer or copolymer.
   13.     The filter media of claim 12 wherein the polymer comprises a styrene-(meth)acrylic
   acid copolymer.
 0 14.     The filter media of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises a poly(maleic anhydride)
   homopolymer or copolymer.
   15.     The filter media of claim 14 wherein the polymer comprises a styrene-maleic
   anhydride copolymer.
25
   16.     The filter media of claim 1 wherein the resinous aldehyde composition comprises a
   resinous formaldehyde composition.
   17.     The filter media of claim 16 wherein the resinous formaldehyde composition
30 comprises a resinous melamine-formaldehyde composition.
   18.     The filter media of claim 1 wherein the resinous aldehyde composition comprises a
   melamine-aldehyde composition; and wherein the aldehyde comprises formaldehyde,
   acetaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, or mixtures thereof.
                                                   49

   19.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the resinous aldehyde composition comprises a
   condensation product of urea and an aldehyde, a condensation product of phenol and an
   aldehyde, a condensation product of melamine and an aldehyde, or a mixture thereof.
 5
   20.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the resinous aldehyde composition comprises a
   condensation product of benzoguanamine and an aldehyde, a condensation product of
   glycoluril and an aldehyde, or a mixture thereof.
 0 21.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the resinous aldehyde composition is present in an
   amount of greater than or equal to 40 parts per weight per 100 parts per weight of the
   polymer.
   22.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the resinous aldehyde composition is present in an
 5 amount less than or equal to 100 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the polymer.
   23.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the fine fiber layer has a thickness of 0.05 p to 30
 0 24.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the filtration substrate is a non-woven substrate.
   25.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the fine fiber layer is an electrospun layer and the
   filtration substrate comprises a cellulosic or synthetic nonwoven.
25 26.      The filter media of claim 25 wherein the filtration substrate comprises a polyester
   nonwoven, a polyolefin nonwoven, or a blended nonwoven thereof.
   27.      The filter media of claim 26 wherein the filtration substrate comprises polypropylene
   nonwoven.
30
   28.      The filter media of claim 1 wherein the filtration substrate comprises a spunbonded or
   melt-blown support.
   29.      A filter element comprising the filter media of claim 1.
                                                   50

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
