ABSTRACT
A rotodynamic fluid machine such as a pump (10) comprising a pump casing (11) defining a
pumpchamber (13) in which a pump impeller (15) is rotatably supported on a pump shaft
(19). The pumpshaft (19) is rotatably supported on a bearing assembly (21). A seal
assembly (31) is provided between the pump casing (11) and the bearing assembly (21).
The seal assembly (31) comprises a seal casing (33) attached to the bearing housing (21). A
shaft sleeve (61) is mounted on the end section of the pump shaft (19) adjacent the impeller
(15) for rotation therewith. The seal assembly (31) comprises a first seal (91), a second seal
(92) and a seal chamber (93) therebetween. The first seal (91) is at the atmospheric end of
the seal chamber (93) and the second seal (92) is at the fluid end of the seal chamber so as
to be exposed to the pump chamber (13). The first seal (91) is in the form of a mechanical
seal comprising a stationary seal element configured as a stationary seal ring (95) and a
rotatable seal element configured as a rotatable seal ring (97). The second seal (92)
comprises a lip seal (121) having a tip (25) for contact with the outer surface of the shaft
sleeve (61). An inlet (141) is provided in the seal casing (33) to deliver flush fluid into the
seal chamber (93). The flush fluid establishes a fluid pressure within the seal chamber (93)
at a level slightly higher than the fluid pressure within the pump chamber (13), creating a
pressure differential across the lip seal (121). As aconsequence of the fluid pressure
differential, there is restricted fluid flow (leakage) past the lip seal (121) from the seal
chamber (93) into the pump chamber (13). The flush fluid serves to isolate the lipseal (12)1
from pumpage material being pumped within the pump chamber (13).
Fig 1

           1/5
               (3)
                             CO
00
                                      04
                                      (Y)
                                    CY)
                                CY)
   CY)
                     C4
       C14
                         CY)
                      cq
                         N
                         co
                   LO
                   cq

                                             1
   Seal Assembly
    Field of the Invention
[0001]     The present invention relates to a seal assembly, and more particularly to a
   seal assembly for rotodynamic fluid machinery, such as pumps and compressors.
    Further, the invention relates to a rotodynamic fluid machine incorporation such a
   seal assembly.
[0002]     The invention has been devised particularly, although not necessarily solely,
   as a seal assembly for rotodynamic fluid machinery used for pumping operations in
   the slurry, waste, pulp, paper and chemical industries. A centrifugal slurry pump is a
   typical example of a rotating fluid machine to which the invention has particular
   application.
    Background Art
[0003]     A rotodynamic fluid machine, such as for example centrifugal slurry pump,
    requires fluid sealing around the rotating shaft against fluid pressure in the machine.
[0004]     Various sealing arrangements are provided to establish fluid seals, including
   gland packing, expellers, lip seals and mechanical seals.
[0005]     Gland packing is oldest of the sealing technologies. It has two main
   deficiencies, one being that leakage is required from the gland to provide longevity to
   the packing, and the other being that compression of the gland on to the shaft or an
   associated shaft sleeve can cause wear or damage. Further, gland packing is
   deemed to be an inappropriate sealing arrangement for a number of installations
    because of environmental and safety concerns.
[0006]      Expellers are common in many pumps used in corrosive and abrasive
   services as they reduce the load on packing or lip seals through centrifugal force.
   The problem with expellers is that they do not necessarily work sufficiently with
    increased chamber pressure and usually require a secondary seal as gland packing

                                              2
   which may result in leakage. Further, expellers do not seal when the machinery is not
   operating and can create major leakage in such circumstances.
[0007]       Lip seals are usually used where there is a low pressure differential across
   them. Lip seals cannot be adjusted to compensate for wear and are more expensive
   to maintain than gland packing.
[0008]       Mechanical seals are favoured in rotodynamic fluid machinery for
   environmental and safety reasons. They are typically able to cope with a greater
    range of pressures than the other sealing arrangements referred to above. Further,
    mechanical seals do not require an external fluid flush in circumstances where a
   clean fluid is being pumped.
[0009]       Mechanical seals are well proven and reliable for sealing rotating fluid
    machinery pumping water and hydrocarbons. However, mechanical seals used in
    rotodynamic machinery for pumping aggressive fluids have often required exotic
    materials to establish an effective sealing arrangement and can be unreliable in
   circumstances where solids are present in the fluid, particularly for pumping slurry or
    pulp and paper.
[0010]       Further, all of the sealing arrangements referred to above are susceptible to
   catastrophic failures in circumstances where the rotating fluid machine "runs dry", as
   the seals would not be sufficiently lubricated.
[0011]       It is against this background, and problems and difficulties associated
   therewith, that the present invention has been developed.
[0012]       The preceding discussion of the background to the invention is intended only
   to facilitate an understanding of the present invention. However, it should be noted
   appreciated that the discussion is not an acknowledgement or an admission that any
   of the material referred to was or is part of the common general knowledge in
   Australia as at the priority date of the application.

                                              3
    Disclosure of the Invention
[0013]       According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a seal assembly
   for a rotodynamic fluid machine having a rotatable shaft and a fluid chamber, the seal
   assembly comprising a seal chamber, a first seal and a second seal, the first and
   second seals being spaced axially along the rotatable shaft and the seal chamber
    being disposed between the first and second seals, the second seal being exposed
   to the fluid chamber, wherein the first seal comprises a mechanical seal and the
   second seal comprises a hydraulic seal.
[0014]       Preferably, the hydraulic seal comprises a lip seal.
[0015]       Preferably, the seal assembly further comprises means for delivering a flush
   fluid to the seal chamber. Flush fluid in the seal chamber may establish a fluid
    pressure therein.
[0016]       Preferably, the hydraulic seal is adapted to permit passage of fluid (such a
   flush fluid) from the seal chamber to the fluid chamber in circumstances where there
    is a sufficient pressure differential therebetween arising through the fluid pressure in
   the seal chamber exceeding the fluid pressure in the fluid chamber.
[0017]       Typically, the passage of fluid comprises fluid leakage.
[0018]       Preferably, the lip seal is adapted to close in the absence of the pressure
   differential, thereby isolating the seal chamber from the fluid chamber to thereby
    inhibit ingress of material into the seal chamber from the fluid chamber.
[0019]       Where the rotodynamic fluid machine comprises a pump having a pumping
   chamber defining the fluid chamber and a pump impeller rotatable within the pumping
   chamber operable to deliver fluid at a discharged pressure, the fluid pressure in the
   seal chamber would slightly exceed the fluid pressure in the pumping chamber.
[0020]       The flush fluid may comprise water or other fluid compatible with the fluid with
   which the rotodynamic fluid machine is working. Where the rotating fluid machine

                                             4
   comprises a pump, the flush fluid would thus be compatible with the pumpage
    material.
[0021]      Preferably, the leakage of flush fluid is at a flow rate sufficient to isolate the
    hydraulic seal from the fluid with which the rotodynamic fluid machine is operating. In
   circumstances where the rotodynamic fluid machine operates to pump an aggressive
    pumpage material such as abrasive or corrosive slurry, the second seal is isolated
   from that aggressive pumpage material by the effect of the leakage of flush fluid.
[0022]      Preferably, the rotodynamic fluid machine comprises a portion confronting the
   fluid chamber, the second seal being located between said portion and the rotatable
   shaft. With such an arrangement, only said portion confronting the fluid chamber
    need be of a material that is compatible or otherwise substantially unaffected by the
   fluid with which the machine is operating.
[0023]      The portion of the rotodynamic fluid machine confronting the fluid chamber
    may have a seat for accommodating the hydraulic seal. The seat may have an axial
   face and a radial face, and a restrictor may be provided for confining the hydraulic
   seal between the two seat faces and the restrictor.
[0024]      Where the hydraulic seal comprises a lip seal, the latter may comprise a base
    portion and a lip portion, the base portion being adapted to be received on the seat
   and confined thereon by the restrictor, and the lip portion having a radially inner edge
   for contact with the shaft or an associated shaft sleeve on the shaft.
[0025]      Means may be provided for monitoring the presence of flush fluid in the seal
   chamber. Such means may comprise an alarm adapted to actuate in response to an
   absence of fluid flow into the seal chamber. A detection means may be provided for
   detecting fluid flow, the arrangement being that the alarm is actuated in response to
   the absence of fluid flow as detected by the detection means.
[0026]      Preferably, the seal chamber is so configured that any particulate matter
   gaining entry into the seal chamber is conveyed away from the seal faces of the
    mechanical seal under the influence of centrifugal force.

                                             5
[0027]      Preferably, the seal assembly further comprises a shaft sleeve for mounting
   on the rotatable shaft for rotation therewith, the first and second seals being in
   sealing engagement with the shaft sleeve.
[0028]      Typically, the shaft sleeve presents a cylindrical outer surface for sealing
   engagement with the first and second seals, and an interior in which the rotatable
   shaft is received.
[0029]      With this arrangement, the rotating seal of the mechanical seal is mounted on
   the shaft sleeve and the lip portion of the lip seal is in contact with the outer surface.
[0030]      Preferably, the mechanical seal comprises a stationary seal element, a
    rotatable seal element and a seal spring for biasing the two seal elements into
    intimate sealing contact, the shaft sleeve incorporating an abutment against which a
    locating element is positioned, the seal spring being accommodated between the
    locating element and the rotatable seal element.
[0031]      Typically, the locating element is configured as a ring.
[0032]      According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a seal
   assembly for a rotodynamic fluid machine having a rotatable shaft and a fluid
   chamber, the seal assembly comprising a seal chamber, a first seal and a second
   seal, the first and second seals being spaced axially along the rotatable shaft and the
   seal chamber being disposed between the first and second seals, the second seal
    being exposed to the fluid chamber, the second seal being adapted to permit
    passage of fluid from the seal chamber to the fluid chamber in circumstances where
   there is a sufficient pressure differential therebetween arising through fluid pressure
    in the seal chamber exceeding fluid pressure in the fluid chamber.
[0033]      According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a seal assembly
   for a rotodynamic fluid machine having a rotatable shaft and a fluid chamber, the seal
   assembly comprising a seal chamber, a mechanical seal and a hydraulic seal, the
   two seals being spaced axially along the rotatable shaft and the seal chamber being
   disposed between the two seals, the hydraulic seal being exposed to the fluid

                                            6
   chamber, means for delivering a flush fluid to the seal chamber to establish fluid
    pressure therein which in use is at a level exceeding the fluid pressure in the fluid
   chamber to establish a pressure differential between the seal chamber and the fluid
   chamber, the hydraulic seal being adapted to permit flow of flush fluid from the seal
   chamber to the fluid chamber in response to a sufficient pressure differential
   therebetween to establish a fluid flow in the fluid chamber away from the hydraulic
   seal.
[0034]      According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a rotodynamic
    machine having a seal assembly according to any one of the first, second and third
   aspects of the invention.
[0035]      According to a fifth embodiment there is provided a pump comprising a pump
   casing defining a pump chamber in which a pump impeller is rotatably supported on
   a pump shaft, the pump shaft being rotatably supported by a bearing assembly, and
   a seal assembly provided between the pump casing and the bearing assembly, the
   seal assembly being in accordance with any one of the first, second and third
   aspects of the invention.
[0036]      According to a sixth aspect of the invention there is provided a rotodynamic
   fluid machine comprising a rotatable shaft, a fluid chamber and a seal assembly, the
   seal assembly comprising a seal chamber, a first seal and a second seal, the first
   and second seals being spaced axially along the rotatable shaft and the seal
   chamber being disposed between the first and second seals, the second seal being
   exposed to the fluid chamber, the second seal being adapted to permit passage of
   fluid from the seal chamber to the fluid chamber in circumstances where there is a
   sufficient pressure differential therebetween arising through fluid pressure in the seal
   chamber exceeding fluid pressure in the fluid chamber.
[0037]      According to a seventh aspect of the invention there is provided a seal
   assembly for a rotodynamic fluid machine having a rotatable shaft and a fluid
   chamber, the seal assembly comprising a seal chamber, a first seal and a second
   seal, the first and second seals being spaced axially along the rotatable shaft and the
   seal chamber being disposed between the first and second seals, the second seal
    being exposed to the fluid chamber, wherein the seal chamber is so configured that

                                              7
    particulate matter gaining entry into the seal chamber is conveyed away from the
   seal faces of the first seal under the influence of centrifugal force applied to the
    particulate matter by the rotatable shaft.
[0038]      Preferably, the seal chamber comprises a wall configured to define an area
   within the seal chamber away from the first seal, the area being adapted to receive
   the particulate matter.
[0039]      Preferably, the wall comprises a portion around the first seal, the portion
   comprising an outwardly directed taper to convey the particular matter to the area
   away from the seal chamber.
[0040]
    Brief Description of the Drawings
[0041]      The invention would be better understood by reference to the following
   description by one specific embodiment thereof as shown in the accompanying
   drawings in which:
            Figure 1 is a cross-sectional view of a centrifugal pump fitted with a seal
            assembly according to the embodiment;
            Figure 2 is a fragmentary view, on an enlarged scale, of that part of the
            centrifugal pump incorporating the seal assembly;
            Figure 3 is a detailed view illustrating in particular a first seal of the seal
            assembly; Figure 4 is a detailed view illustrating in particular a second seal of
            the seal assembly;
            Figure 5 is a cross-sectional view of a seal casing forming part of the seal
            assembly; and

                                             8
            Figure 6 is a cross-sectional view of a mechanical seal adaptor forming part
            of the seal assembly.
    Best Mode(s) for Carrying Out the Invention
[0042]      The embodiment shown in the drawings is directed to a rotodynamic fluid
    machine in the form of a centrifugal pump 10 for pumping aggressive materials such
   as, for example, slurry, waste, pulp, paper and chemicals.
[0043]      The pump 10 comprises a pump casing 11 defining a pump chamber 13 in
   which a pump impeller 15 is rotatably supported. The pump casing 11 incorporates a
    pump suction inlet 17 and a discharge outlet 18, both communicating with the pump
   chamber 13. The impeller 15 is rotatably supported within the pump chamber 13 on a
    pump shaft 19. The impeller 15 is mounted on one end 19a of the pump shaft 19, the
   other end 19b of which is adapted to be coupled to a motor (not shown) for operating
   the pump. The pump shaft 19 is rotatably supported on a bearing assembly 21
   comprising a bearing housing 23 supporting bearings 25. The bearing housing 23 is
   closed at each end by an end cover 27. A seal assembly 31 is provided between the
    pump casing 11 and the bearing assembly 21.
[0044]      The seal assembly 31 comprises a seal casing 33 having a mounting flange
   35 at one end for attachment to the bearing housing 21. In the arrangement shown,
   the mounting flange 35 is attached to the bearing housing 21 by bolted connections
   37. The other end of the seal casing 33 presents an annular rim 39 having a
   circumferential outer face 41 incorporating a circumferential recess 43
   accommodating an 0-ring 45. The annular rim 39 receives and supports a
    mechanical seal adapter 47 disposed about the shaft 19. The mechanical seal
   adapter 47 is located between a frame plate 48 forming part of the casing 11 and a
   frame plate liner insert 49 which defines a boundary surface of the pump chamber
    13. The frame plate liner insert 49 has a central boss 50 defining an aperture 51
   through which a hub portion 52 of the impeller 15 extends for mounting on the end
    19a of the shaft 19. A threaded connection 53 is provided between the hub portion 52
   and the end 19a of the shaft 19.

                                              9
[0045]      The mechanical seal adapter 47 has a radially inner portion 54 surrounding
   the pump shaft 19. The radially inner portion 54 has two wall sections 55, 56 defining
   a central opening 58, and a shoulder 59 between the two wall sections 55, 56.
[0046]      A shaft sleeve 61 is mounted on the end section of the shaft 19 adjacent the
    impeller 15. The shaft sleeve 61 is secured to the shaft 19 for rotation therewith. The
   shaft sleeve 61 has an end section 63 at one end thereof presenting an end face 65
    in abutting engagement with the adjacent face of the impeller hub 52. The end face
   65 incorporates a circumferential recess which accommodates an O-ring 69 for
    providing a fluid seal between the abutting faces. The other end section 70 of the
   shaft sleeve 61 has an end face 71 in engagement with a spacer 73 disposed
    between the shaft sleeve 71 and the adjacent bearing 25. The end section 70
    incorporates an inner recess accommodating an O-ring 77 for establishing a fluid
   seal between the shaft sleeve 61 and the shaft 19. The shaft 19 has a section 81
   thereof adjacent the end 19a, the section being of reduced diameter to accommodate
   the shaft sleeve 61. With this arrangement, a shoulder 83 is defined in the pump
   shaft 19 adjacent the shaft section 81.
[0047]      The seal assembly 31 comprises a first seal 91 , a second seal 92 and a seal
   chamber 93 therebetween. The first seal 91 is at the atmospheric end of the seal
   chamber 93 and the second seal 92 is at the fluid end of the seal chamber. In other
   words, the second seal 92 is exposed to the pump chamber 13.
[0048]      The seal chamber 93 is defined by the seal casing 33 and the mechanical
   seal adapter 47.
[0049]      The first seal 91 is in the form of a mechanical seal comprising a stationary
   seal element configured as a stationary seal ring 95 and a rotatable seal element
   configured as a rotatable seal ring 97, as is well known with mechanical seals. The
   stationary seal ring 95 is fixed with respect to the seal casing 33 and the rotatable
   seal ring 97 which is mounted on the shaft sleeve 61 for rotation therewith. The
   stationary seal ring 95 is accommodated within a seat 99 defined by a rebate formed
    in the seal casing 33.

                                             10
[0050]      The stationary seal ring 95 presents a stationary seal face and the rotatable
   seal ring 97 presents a rotatable seal face. The two sealing rings 95, 97 are in
    intimate contact, with the seal face of the rotatable ring 97 in sliding and sealing
   contact with the seal face of the stationary seal ring 95. The rotatable seal ring 97 is
   fixed for rotation in unison with the shaft sleeve 61 (and thus the pump shaft 19 on
   which the shaft sleeve is mounted) but is also moveable axially along the sleeve
   shaft for intimate contact with the stationary seal ring 95. A biasing means 105 is
    provided for biasing the rotatable seal ring 97 into sealing engagement with the
   stationary seal ring 95. In the arrangement shown, the biasing means 105 comprises
   a compression spring 109 acting between an abutment 111 associated with the
    rotatable seal ring 97 and a spring locating ring 113 mounted on the shaft sleeve 61.
   The spring locating ring 113 locates against an abutment 115 provided on the shaft
   sleeve 61.
[0051]      The second seal 92 comprises a lip seal 121. The lip seal 121 comprises a
    radially outer base portion 123 which locates against the inner portion 54 of the
    mechanical seal adapter 47 and a radially inner lip portion 124 extending inwardly to
   terminate at a tip 125 for contact with the outer surface of the shaft sleeve 61.
[0052]      The base portion 123 of the lip seal 121 is accommodated in a seat 126
    provided on the mechanical seal adapter 47. The seat 126 has an axial face 127a
   defined by wall section 55 and a radial face 127b defined by shoulder 59.
[0053]      A restrictor 128 is provided for retaining the lip seal 121 in position.
   Specifically, the restrictor 128 is comprises a ring 129 adapted for location as an
    interference fit within the central opening 58 of the mechanical seal adapter 47 to
   confine the base portion 123 of the lip seal 121 in position in the seat 126. The
    restrictor 128 surrounds the shaft sleeve 61 but is sized so as to not impede rotation
   of the pump shaft 19.
[0054]      The lip portion 124 is inclined so as to extend inwardly and also towards the
   end 19a of the pump shaft 19, as shown in the drawings. The lip portion 124 has two
    inclined faces, being a first face 131 confronting the pump chamber 13 and a second
   face 132 confronting the seal chamber 93. With this arrangement, fluid pressure
   within the pump chamber 13 acting upon the first face 131 biases the lip portion 124

                                               11
    into sealing contact with the shaft sleeve 61. In contrast, fluid pressure in the seal
   chamber 93 biases the lip portion 124 away from sealing contact with the shaft
   sleeve 61 to provide a small clearance space therebetween through which leakage
   can occur. The purpose of such an arrangement will become apparent later.
[0055]      The restrictor 128 acts to retain the lip seal 121 in position while also limited
   flow of fluid within the seal chamber 93 past the restrictor to the lip seal 121.
[0056]      An inlet 141 is provided in the seal casing 33 to deliver flush fluid into the seal
   chamber 93. The inlet 131 is adapted for connection to a supply line (not shown).
   The flush fluid establishes a fluid pressure within the seal chamber 93 at a level
   slightly higher than the fluid pressure within the pump chamber 13, creating a
    pressure differential across the lip seal 121. As a consequence of the fluid pressure
   differential, there is restricted fluid flow (leakage) past the lip seal 121 from the seal
   chamber 93 into the pump chamber 13.
[0057]      Typically, the flush fluid comprises water or another fluid compatible with the
    material being pumped, such that the pumpage material is not contaminated or
   otherwise adversely affected by the flush fluid.
[0058]      The flush fluid serves the purpose of isolating the lip seal 121 from the
    pumpage material being pumped within the pump chamber 13. The flow of flush fluid
   does this by diverting the pumpage material away from the lip portion 124 of the lip
   seal 121. In this way, the likelihood of the lip seal 121 being damaged by the
   aggressive pumpage material is reduced. The flow of flush fluid also inhibits ingress
   of the pumpage material into the seal chamber 93, so avoiding or at least reducing
   the possibility of the pumpage material contacting the mechanical seal 91.
[0059]      The fluid flow also serves to carry away heat generated by friction between
   the stationary and rotatable seal rings 95, 97 of the mechanical seal 91. The
   generated heat is extracted by the flush fluid and is conveyed from the seal chamber
   93 by the flush fluid flow.

                                               12
[0060]      The presence of flush fluid within the seal chamber 93 can be monitored and
   an alarm actuated in the event of any loss of fluid. In this embodiment, such an
   arrangement comprises a reed switch alarm (not shown) incorporated in a flow
   delivery line (also not shown) connected to the seal chamber inlet.
[0061]      It is a particular feature of the seal assembly that the lip seal 121 can close to
   sealingly engage the shaft sleeve 61 in circumstances where there is a loss of flush
   fluid pressure within the seal chamber 93, thereby sealing the seal chamber 93
   against entry of pumpage material from the pump chamber 13. In this way, the
    mechanical seal 91 is protected from the pumpage material.
[0062]      The seal chamber 93 is configured to direct any contaminant particulate
    matter therein away from the stationary and rotatable seal rings 95, 97 during
   operation of the pump 10. In the arrangement shown, this is achieved by configuring
   that portion 142 of the wall of the seal chamber 93 around the mechanical seal 91 to
    incorporate an outwardly directed taper. This configuration serves to cause any
    particular matter conveyed outwardly under the influence of centrifugal forces to
    move along the tapering portion 142 to an area within the seal chamber 93 away
   from the interacting seal rings 95, 97. Contaminant material can possibly enter the
   seal chamber either within the flush fluid or through pumpage material leaking past
   the lip seal 121.
[0063]      It is a feature of the embodiment that the "working length" of the mechanical
   seal 91 can be adjusted according to the requirements of the specific application.
   This is done by positioning the shaft sleeve 61 of the end 19a of the shaft 19 at a
    location to establish the necessary spring force in the spring 109. The spring force is
   established by the initial loading of the spring 109 as determined by the position of
   the spring loading plate 113 retained in position in relation to the sleeve shaft 61 by
   the abutment 115. The axial position of the spring loading plate 113 can be
   selectively varied by adjusting the position of the shaft sleeve 61 on the pump shaft
    19.
[0064]      From the foregoing, it is evident that the present embodiment provides a
    relatively simple yet highly effective seal assembly for rotodynamic fluid machines
   that can be used in a variety of applications, including in particular in relation to

                                            13
    pumps capable of handling aggressive materials such as corrosive slurries without
   the need to use for exotic materials for most of the seal components. In relation to
   the embodiment, the frame plate liner insert 49 is the only component of the seal
   assembly likely to be in prolonged contact with the pumpage material and
   accordingly is the only component that need be compatible with the pumpage
    material.
[0065]      It should be appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to the
   scope of the embodiment described.
[0066]      Modifications and improvements can be made without departing from the
   scope of the invention.
[0067]     Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will
    be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not
   the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.

                                        14
1. A seal assembly for a rotodynamic fluid machine having a rotatable shaft and
   a fluid chamber, the seal assembly comprising a seal chamber, a first seal
   and a second seal, the first and second seals being spaced axially along the
   rotatable shaft and the seal chamber being disposed between the first and
   second seals, the second seal being exposed to the fluid chamber, wherein
   the seal chamber is so configured that particulate matter gaining entry into the
   seal chamber is conveyed away from the seal faces of the first seal under the
   influence of centrifugal force applied to the particulate matter by the rotatable
   shaft.
2. A seal assembly according to claim 1 wherein the seal chamber comprises a
   wall configured to define an area within the seal chamber away from the first
   seal, the area being adapted to receive the particulate matter.
3. A seal assembly according to claim 2 wherein the wall comprises a portion
   around the first seal, the portion comprising an outwardly directed taper to
   convey the particular matter to the area away from the seal chamber.
4. A seal assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   first seal comprises a mechanical seal and the second seal comprises a
   hydraulic seal.
5. A seal assembly according to claim 4 wherein the hydraulic seal comprises a
   lip seal.
6. A seal assembly according to any one of the preceding claims further
   comprising means for delivering a flush fluid to the seal chamber.
7. A seal assembly according to any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein the hydraulic
   seal is adapted to permit passage of fluid from the seal chamber to the fluid
   chamber in circumstances where there is a sufficient pressure differential
   therebetween arising through the fluid pressure in the seal chamber
   exceeding the fluid pressure in the fluid chamber.
8. A seal assembly according to claim 7 wherein the passage of fluid comprises
   fluid leakage.

                                          15
9. A seal assembly according to any one of claims 4 to 8 wherein the hydraulic
    seal is adapted to close in the absence of the pressure differential, thereby
    isolating the seal chamber from the fluid chamber to thereby inhibit ingress of
    material into the seal chamber from the fluid chamber.
10.         A seal assembly according to any one of claims 6 to 9, further
    comprising means for delivering a flush fluid to the seal chamber to establish
    fluid pressure therein which in use is at a level exceeding the fluid pressure in
    the fluid chamber to establish a pressure differential between the seal
    chamber and the fluid chamber, the hydraulic seal being adapted to permit
    flow of the flush fluid from the seal chamber to the fluid chamber in response
    to a sufficient pressure differential therebetween to establish a fluid flow in the
    fluid chamber away from the hydraulic seal.
11.         A seal assembly according to any one of the preceding claims,
    comprising a seal casing having a first end comprising a mounting flange for
    attachment to a bearing housing disposed around the shaft and a second end
    comprising an annular rim, and a seal adapter having an inner portion
    disposed around the shaft and an outer flange for mounting on the annular rim
    of the seal casing.
12.         A rotodynamic fluid machine having a seal assembly according to any
    one of the preceding claims.
13.         A pump comprising a pump casing defining a pump chamber in which
    a pump impeller is rotatably supported on a pump shaft, the pump shaft being
    rotatably supported by a bearing assembly, and a seal assembly provided
    between the pump casing and the bearing assembly, the seal assembly being
    in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 11.
14.         A pump according to claim 13 wherein the pump impeller is operable to
    deliver fluid at a discharged pressure and wherein the fluid pressure in the
    seal chamber slightly exceeds the fluid pressure in the pumping chamber.
15.         A pump according to claim 13 or 14 wherein the flush fluid comprises
    fluid compatible with fluid delivered by the pump.

                                           16
16.         A pump according to any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein leakage of
    flush fluid is at a flow rate sufficient to isolate the hydraulic seal from the fluid
    within the pumping chamber.
17.         A pump according to any one of claims 13 to 16 further comprising a
    portion confronting the pumping chamber, the second seal being located
    between said portion and the rotatable shaft.
18.         A pump according to claim 17 wherein the portion confronting the
    pumping chamber has a seat for accommodating the hydraulic seal.
19.         A pump according to claim 18 wherein the seat comprises an axial face
    and a radial face, the hydraulic seal being confined between the two seat
    faces and a restrictor.
20.         A pump according to claim 19 wherein the hydraulic seal comprises a
    lip seal comprising a base portion and a lip portion, the base portion being
    adapted to be received on the seat and confined thereon by the restrictor, and
    the lip portion having a radially inner edge for contact with the shaft or an
    associated shaft sleeve on the shaft.
21.         A pump according to any one of claims 13 to 20 further comprising
    monitoring means for monitoring the presence of flush fluid in the seal
    chamber.
22.         A pump according to claim 21 wherein                the monitoring    means
    comprises an alarm adapted to actuate in response to an absence of fluid flow
    into the seal chamber.
23.         A pump according to claim 22 further comprising a detection means for
    detecting fluid flow, the arrangement being that the alarm is actuated in
    response to the absence of fluid flow as detected by the detection means.
24.         A pump according to any one of claims 13 to 23 further comprising a
    shaft sleeve mounted on the pump shaft for rotation therewith, the first and
    second seals being in sealing engagement with the shaft sleeve.

                                         17
25.         A pump according to claim 24 wherein the shaft sleeve presents a
    cylindrical outer surface for sealing engagement with the first and second
    seals, and an interior in which the rotatable pump shaft is received.
26.         A pump according to claim 24 or 25 wherein the mechanical seal
    comprises a stationary seal element, a rotatable seal element and a seal
    spring for biasing the two seal elements into intimate sealing contact, the shaft
    sleeve incorporating an abutment against which a locating element is
    positioned, the seal spring being accommodated between the locating
    element and the rotatable seal element.
27.         A pump according to claim 26 wherein the locating element is
    configured as a ring.
28.         A rotodynamic fluid machine comprising a rotatable shaft, a fluid
    chamber and a seal assembly, the seal assembly as defined in any one of
    claims 1 to 11.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
