Abstract
Disclosed is a method including communicating, by a mobile device, with a base
station via first and second component carriers having different frequency bands
and time division duplexing (TDD) configurations. The method may include
receiving one or more downlink transmissions via the second component carrier.
The method may include selecting a hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ)
timing sequence based on the TDD configurations of the first and second
component carriers. The method may include transmitting one or more positive
acknowledgment       and/or negative acknowledgement     (ACK/NACK) signals,
associated with the one or more downlink transmissions, according to the selected
HARQ timing sequence. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.
                                                                         2519447v1

             SELECTION OF ACKNOWLEDGMENT TIMING IN WIRELESS
                                       COMMUNICATIONS
                            Cross Reference to Related Applications
           The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
  61/556,109, filed November 4, 2011, entitled "ADVANCED WIRELESS
  COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNIQUES," the entire disclosure of which is
  hereby incorporated by reference.
                                               Field
               Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to the field of
  communications, and more particularly, to selection of acknowledgement timing in
  wireless communication networks.
                                     Background Information
               A time division duplex (TDD) system, in wireless communications, may offer
  flexibility in resource utilization. For example, a TDD system may use different TDD
  configurations to match uplink and downlink traffic characteristics of a wireless
  communications cell. The flexibility of using different TDD configurations, may permit
  the ratio between available uplink (UL) and downlink (DL) resources to range from
  3UL:2DL to IUL:9DL.
               Release 10, of 3d Generation Partnership Project's (3GPP) long term
  evolution-advanced (LTE-A) communications standard, may limit support of the
  aggregation of TDD Component Carriers (CCs) to the same uplink/downlink (UL/DL)
5 TDD configurations. While such limitations may have simplified the design and operation
  within the standard, such limitation may have limited potential for greater data throughput.
                                Brief Description of the Drawings
               Embodiments of the invention are illustrated by way of example, and not by
0 way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like reference
  numerals refer to similar elements.
                                                - 1-

          Figure 1 schematically illustrates a wireless communication network in
  accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 2 schematically illustrates an optional HARQ signal scheduling diagram in
  accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 3 schematically illustrates an optional HARQ signal scheduling diagram in
  accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 4 is a flowchart illustrating selection of an HARQ signal scheduling
  configuration in accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 5 schematically depicts an example of selecting a HARQ signal scheduling
  configuration in accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 6 schematically illustrates an example of HARQ signal scheduling in
  accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 7 is a flowchart illustrating selection of HARQ signal scheduling for
  downlink subframes in accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 8 schematically illustrates an example of an HARQ signal scheduling
  diagram in accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 9 schematically illustrates an example of an HARQ signal scheduling
  diagram in accordance with various embodiments.
          Figure 10 schematically depicts an example system in accordance with various
  embodiments.
                                Description of the Embodiments
              Illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure include, but are not limited
  to, methods, systems, and apparatuses for selection of acknowledgement signal timing in a
5 wireless communication network.
              Various aspects of the illustrative embodiments will be described using terms
  commonly employed by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to
  others skilled in the art. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that some
  alternate embodiments may be practiced using with portions of the described aspects. For
o purposes of explanation, specific numbers, materials, and configurations are set forth in
  order to provide a thorough understanding of the illustrative embodiments. However, it
  will be apparent to one skilled in the art that alternate embodiments may be practiced
                                                 -2-

  without the specific details. In other instances, well-known features are omitted or
  simplified in order to not obscure the illustrative embodiments.
               Further, various operations will be described as multiple discrete operations, in
  turn, in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the illustrative embodiments;
  however, the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations
  are necessarily order dependent. In particular, these operations need not be performed in
  the order of presentation.
              The phrase "in one embodiment" is used repeatedly. The phrase generally does
  not refer to the same embodiment; however, it may. The terms "comprising," "having,"
  and "including" are synonymous, unless the context dictates otherwise. The phrase "A/B"
  means "A or B". The phrase "A and/or B" means "(A), (B), or (A and B)". The phrase
  "at least one of A, B and C" means "(A), (B), (C), (A and B), (A and C), (B and C) or (A,
  B and C)". The phrase "(A) B" means "(B) or (A B)", that is, A is optional.
          Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, it will
  be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and/or
  equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and
  described, without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure.
  This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments
  discussed herein. Therefore, it is manifestly intended that the embodiments of the present
  disclosure be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.
          As used herein, the term "module" may refer to, be part of, or include an
  Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), an electronic circuit, a processor (shared,
  dedicated, or group) and/or memory (shared, dedicated, or group) that execute one or more
  software or firmware programs, a combinational logic circuit, and/or other suitable
5 components that provide the described functionality.
          Figure 1 schematically illustrates a wireless communication network 100 in
  accordance with various embodiments. Wireless communication network 100 (hereinafter
  "network 100") may be an access network of a 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP)
  long-term evolution (LTE) network such as evolved universal mobile telecommunication
0 system (UMTS) terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN). The network 100 may
  include a base station, e.g., enhanced node base station (eNB) 104, configured to
  wirelessly communicate with a mobile device or terminal, e.g., user equipment (UE) 108.
  While embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to an LTE
  network, some embodiments may be used with other types of wireless access networks.
                                                -3-

           cNB 104 may include a receiver module 120 with which to receive signals from
  UE 108 via one or more antennas 130. eNB 104 may include a transmitter module 124
  with which to transmit signals to UE 108 via one or more antennas 130. eNB 104 may
  also include a processor module 128 coupled between receiver module 120 and transmitter
  module 124 and configured to encode and decode information communicated by the
  signals.
           In embodiments in which the UE 108 is capable of utilizing carrier aggregation
  (CA), a number of component carriers (CCs) may be aggregated for communication
  between the eNB 104 and the UE 108. In an initial connection establishment, the UE 108
  may connect with a primary serving cell (Peell) of the eNB 104 utilizing a primary CC.
  This connection may be used for various functions such as security, mobility,
  configuration, etc. Subsequently, the UE 108 may connect with one or more secondary
  serving cells (Scells) of the eNB 104 utilizing one or more secondary CCs. These
  connections may be used to provide additional radio resources.
           Each CC may support a number of communication channels according to a release
  of the 3GPP LTE-advanced communication standard. For example, each CC may support
  a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) for transmission of downlink data. As
  another example, each CC may support physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) or/and
  physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) to carry information between UE 108 and eNB
  104. A CC may include a plurality of uplink and downlink subframes for carrying
  information between eNB 104 and UE 108. A single 10 ms radio frame may include ten
  subframes.
           The CCs may be configured to transport information according to a time domain
  duplexing (TDD) communication protocol. Each CC may be scheduled to transport data
5 to UE 108 or transport data to eNB 104 according to one of several TDD configurations.
  For example, with reference to Table 1, each CC may be assigned to transport data
       Uplink-downlink        Downlink-to-Uplink              Subframe number
         configuration     Switch-point periodicity  0   1  2   3 4 5 6 7          8    9
                0                    5ms             D   S  U   U U D S U          U   U
                1                    5ms             D   S  U   U D D S U          U   D
                2                    5 ms            D   S  U   D D D S U          D   D
                3                   10 ins           D   S  U   U U D D D          D   D
                4                   10 Ms            D   S  U   U D D D D          D   D
                5                   10 ins           D   S  U   D D D D D          D   D
                6                    5is             D   S  U   U U D S U         U    D
                         Table 1: TDD Uplink-Downlink Configurations
                                                -4-

  and/or control signals according to one of TDD configurations 0-6. A primary CC and
  secondary CC may both be configured with the same TDD configuration, or with different
  TDD configurations. In general, each of subframes 0-9 that is labeled with a "D" or an
  "S" is a subframe with which UE 108 receives data from eNB 104, and each of subframes
  0-9 that is labeled with a "U" is a subframe through which UE 108 transmits data to eNB
   104.
           eNB 104 may be configured to communicate some information solely by the PCell
  and be configured to communicate other information by either the PCell or the SCelI. For
  example, eNB 104 may be configured to receive acknowledgment signals from UE 108
  solely through the PCell. According one embodiment, the acknowledgment signals may
  be hybrid adaptive repeat and request (HARQ) signals corresponding to a positive
  acknowledgment (ACK) of receipt of data and a negative acknowledgment (NACK) of
  receipt of data. In embodiments, UE 108 may be configured to transmit ACK/NACK
  signals to notify eNB 104 that transmitted data has or has not been received.
           UE 108 may be configured to determine a schedule with which to transmit
  ACK/NACK signals to eNB 104. UE 108 may include a receiver module 144, a
  transmitter module 148, a processor module 152, and one or more suitable antennas 156.
  Receiver module 144 and transmitter module 148 may be coupled to one or more suitable
  antennas 156 to transmit and receive wireless signals to/from eNB 104.
           Processor module 152 may be coupled to receiver module 144 and transmitter
  module 148 and be configured to decode and encode information transmitted in signals
  communicated between the UE 108 and the eNB 104. Processor module may include a
  communication module 154 and an HARQ module 158. Processor module 152 may be
  configured to use communication module 154 to transmit information in uplink subframes
5 of the PCell, e.g., on CC_0, according to the scheduling of a first TDD configuration at a
  first frequency. Processor module 152 may also be configured to transmit information in
  uplink subframes of the SCell, e.g., on CC_1, according to a second TDD configuration at
  a second frequency that is different from the first frequency. According to one
  embodiment, the difference between transmission frequencies of CC_0 and CC_1 may
) range from hundreds of kilohertz to tens of Gigahertz, in accordance with inter-band
  carrier aggregation.
           As will be described in more detail hereafter, processor module 152 may be
  configured to selectively transmit ACK/NACK information for SCell communications via
  a schedule of a TDD UL-DL configuration that is different than the TDD configuration of
                                                -5-

  SCel. In embodiments, processor module 152 may use HARQ module 158 to select
  HARQ timing sequence or timing schedule based on one of the TDD configurations.
  HARQ module 158 may also generate the ACK/NACK information for processor module
   152. The HARQ module may be coupled to the communication module 154 and may be
  configured to use the communication module 154 to transmit the generated ACK/NACK
  information via the selected HARQ timing sequence.
           Various embodiments of the present disclosure may enable a eNB to schedule
  uplink and downlink data transmission with different TDD configurations on component
  carriers. These features may advantageously enable a communication system to transmit
  data information with higher peak data rates than previous communication systems.
  However, some information transmitted with a PCell and an SCell having different TDD
  configurations may result in HARQ ACK/NACK resources conflicts. For example,
  because HARQ ACK/NACK signals for both SCell and PCell may be transmitted between
  UE 108 and eNB 104 solely via uplink subframes of PCell, uplink subframe schedules of
  PCell may result in scheduling conflicts for ACK/NACK information for SCell.
           While many embodiments described herein, are described in a carrier aggregation
  context, it will be understood that other embodiments may be applicable to an embodiment
  in which the UE 108 and eNB 104 utilize a single serving cell, with a single component
  carrier, for communications. In these embodiments, the UE 108 may be configured, e.g.,
  by receipt of system information block 1 (SIB 1) broadcast by the eNB 104, to
  communicate data with the eNB 104 according to a first TDD UL-DL configuration. The
  UE 108 may be further configured to transmit ACK/NACK information via a HARQ
  timing sequence of a second TDD UL-DL configuration. These and other embodiments
  will be described in further detail.
5          Figure 2 illustrates a diagram of HARQ ACK/NACK signal scheduling that may
  be performed by processor module 152, according to embodiments. Figure 2 shows PCell
  configured with TDD configuration 1 (shown in Table 1), and SCell configured with TDD
  configuration 3. Each of lines 200 represent a link between downlink or special subframe
  data and the uplink subframe that is designated to carry corresponding ACK/NACK
0 information back to an cNB.
          According to the solution of Figure 2, PDSCH HARQ timing on all secondary
  serving cells (e.g., SCells) may follow the TDD UL-DL configuration of the PCell to
  allow increased reuse of Rel-10 TDD intra-band carrier aggregation design. For example,
  HARQ ACK/NACK information for SCell may be configured to follow the HARQ
                                               -6-

  scheduling of TDD configuration 1 because TDD configuration I is the TDD
  configuration of PCell. However, such a configuration of SCell HARQ ACK/NACK
   information may result in some ACK/NACK information not being fed back to eNB.
           As illustrated, subframes 7 and 8 of the SCell in one radio frame could not be
  scheduled and utilized by UEs using carrier aggregation with the shown TDD
  configuration because PCell does not have the corresponding resources for HARQ
  ACK/NACK transmission. Thus, while a solution that substantially reuses carrier
  aggregation design of release 10 may appear advantageous, such a solution also includes
  several weaknesses.
           Figure 3 illustrates a diagram of HARQ ACK/NACK signal scheduling that may
  be performed by processor module 152, according to embodiments. Figure 3 illustrates an
  issue with merely scheduling the ACK/NACK information of SCell subframes 7 and 8
  into PCell uplink subframe 3. As shown, ACK/NACK information of SCell subframes 9
  and 0 may need to be transmitted during a downlink subframe of PCell subframe 4 rather
  than during a PCell uplink subframe. Thus, the solution illustrated by Figure 3 may leave
  some ACK/NACK information without an uplink resource for transmission.
           Figure 4 is a flowchart illustrating a method 400 of selecting a HARQ scheduling
  configuration that may overcome the potential downsides illustrated in Figures 2 and 3, in
  accordance with various embodiments.
           At block 404, UE 108 may establish a PCell with a first TDD configuration. In
  some embodiments, the UE 108 may establish the PCell with the first TDD configuration
  based on information received in an SIBI broadcast from a base station, e.g., eNB 104.
           At block 408, UE 108 may establish an SCell communication channel with a
  second TDD configuration. In some embodiments, the UE 108 may establish the SCell
5 with the second TDD configuration based on information received, from the eNB 104, in
  radio resource control (RRC) signaling through the PCell.
           At block 412, UE 108 may determine which uplink subframes are common to both
  the first and second TDD configurations. These may be referred to as the common UL
  subframes.
0          At block 416, UE 108 may select a reference TDD configuration having uplink
  subframes that are the same as the common UL subframes. For example, the uplink
  subframes of the selected HARQ TDD configuration may be the same as the common
  uplink subframes, no more and no less.
                                                 -7-

            UE 108 may determine the reference TDD configuration based on information
  shown in Table 2. Table 2 (below) shows an x-axis and a y-axis corresponding to TDD
                                         PCell TDD configuration
                                           0   12     3      4 5 6
                                           1 1 2             4 5 1
                                      S22      2 2     ',,-j     2
                                 0
                                               4 4 454
                                           4 445
                                      U    5   5   5  5      5 5 5
                                           6   1   2 :3      4 5 6
                              Table 2: HARQ timing decision table
  configurations 0-6 of the PCell and Scell, respectively. For example, if a PCell were
  configured with TDD configuration 4 and an SCell were configured with TDD
  configuration 2, UE 108 may select TDD configuration 5 as the reference TDD
  configuration.
           The cross-hatched portions of Table 2 are instances in which the reference TDD
) configuration is neither the TDD configuration of the Pcell or the Scell.
           The non-cross-hatched portions of Table 2 indicate a reference TDD configuration
  that is either the TDD configuration of the PCell or the TDD configuration of the SCell.
  The non-cross-hatched portions of Table 2 may be described in terms of downlink
  subframes of the TDD configurations for the PCell and SCell. In embodiments, the TDD
  configuration of the PCell is selected to be the reference TDD configuration if the set of
  downlink subframes indicated by the SCell TDD configuration (e.g., SIBI configuration)
  is a subset of the downlink subframes indicated by the PCell TDD configuration (e.g.,
  SIBI configuration). The TDD configuration of the SCell is selected to be the reference
  TDD configuration if the set of downlink subframes indicated by the SCell TDD
o configuration is a superset of the downlink subframes indicated by the PCell TDD
  configuration.
           Returning to Figure 4, at block 424, UE 108 may transmit ACK/NACK
  information for the SCell according to the scheduling of the reference TDD configuration,
  e.g., TDD configuration 5.
5          Figure 5 schematically depicts an example of selecting a reference TDD
  configuration in accordance with various embodiments. As described above in connection
                                                 -8-

  with method 400 and Table 2, box 504 encloses the uplink subframes (2 and 3) that are
  common between the TDD configuration of the PCell and the TDD configuration of the
   SCell. Of the TDD configurations of Table 1, TDD configuration 4 is the TDD
  configuration that includes uplink subframes 2 and 3. Additionally, Table 2 indicates that
  TDD configuration 4 may be used with a PCell TDD configuration 1 and an SCell TDD
  configuration 3. Therefore, TDD configuration 4 may be selected as the HARQ TDD
  configuration in this embodiment.
            Figure 6 schematically illustrates an example of HARQ signal scheduling in
  accordance with various embodiments. In particular, Figure 6 shows that HARQ
3 ACK/NACK information related to SCell communications may be transmitted via PCell
  while the SCell and PCell are configured with different TDD configurations. As
   illustrated, SCelI may be configured with TDD configuration 3, PCell may be configured
  with TDD configuration 1, and HARQ ACK/NACK information related to the SCeII may
  be sent via PCell by using HARQ scheduling of TDD configuration 4.
            Figure 7 is a flowchart illustrating a method 700 of selecting a reference TDD
   configuration in accordance with various embodiments. UE 108 may execute method 700
   as an alternative to or in combination with method 400, according to various
   embodiments.
            At block 704, UE 108 may identify each downlink subframe of component carriers
> of both the PCell and the SCell as a type I subframe or a type 2 subframe. UE 108 may
  identify a downlink subframe as a type I subframe if a corresponding subframe in the
  other component carrier is also a downlink subframe. For example, a downlink subframe
  of subframe 6 in the PCell component carrier may be type I if subframe 6 of the SCeIl
  component carrier is also a downlink subframe. UE 108 may identify a downlink
5 subframe as a type 2 subframe if a corresponding subframe in the other component carrier
  is an uplink subframe. For example, if subframe 3 of the SCell CC is a downlink
  subframe and subframe 3 of the PCell CC is an uplink subframe, then subframe 3 of the
  SCell CC may be a type 2 downlink subframe. In other words, each downlink subframe
  may be type I if the subframe is allocated similarly as a corresponding subframe of the
o other component carrier and may be type 2 if the subframe is allocated differently than a
  corresponding subframe of the other component carrier.
            At block 706, UE 108 may select a downlink subframe from the PCell or the SCell.
            At block 708, UE 108 may determine whether a downlink subframe is type 1. If
  the downlink subframe is type 1, then method 700 goes to block 712.
                                                  -9-

          At block 712, UE 108 transmits ACK/NACK signals for the selected downlink
  subframe according to a timing schedule of the TDD configuration of the PCell. Method
  700 then returns to block 704 for the next downlink subframe.
          Returning to block 708, if the downlink subframe is not type 1, then method 700
  goes to either block 716 (option 1) or block 718 (option 2).
          At block 716, UE 108 transmits ACK/NACK signals for the downlink subframe
  according to a timing schedule of the TDD configuration of the serving cell in which the
  downlink subframe resides. For example, if the downlink subframe is type 2 in the PCeII,
  then UE 108 transmits ACK/NACK signals for the downlink subframe according to the
  timing schedule of the TDD configuration of the PCell. If the downlink subframe is type 2
  in the SCell, then UE 108 transmits ACK/NACK signals for the downlink subframe
  according to the timing schedule of the TDD configuration of the SCell. Method 700 then
  returns to block 704 for the next downlink subframe.
          Returning to block 708, if the downlink subframe is not type 1, then method 700
  may optionally go to block 718 instead of block 716.
          At block 718, UE 108 may determine if the type 2 downlink subframe resides in
  the PCell. If the selected downlink subframe resides in the PCell, method 700 may go to
  block 712. If the selected downlink subframe resides in the SCell, method 700 may go to
  block 720.
          At block 720, UE 108 may transmit ACK/NACK signals for selected subframe
  according to the HARQ-ACK timing schedule of a reference TDD configuration
  determined by method 400. Method 700 may then return to block 704.
          Figure 8 schematically illustrates an example of an HARQ signal scheduling
  diagram in accordance with various embodiments. For example, as discussed above in
5 connection with method 700, downlink subframes (and special subframes) of the PCell
  and SCell may be identified as type 1, if the corresponding of the other serving cell are
  also downlink subframes. Box 804 and box 808 show that subframes 0, 1, 5, and 6 of both
  the PCell and SCell may be identified as type 1. Accordingly, the HARQ ACK/NACK
  information of the type 1 subframes may be transmitted according to the TDD
o configuration of the PCell, e.g., TDD configuration 0.
          Downlink subframes of the PCell and the SCell may be identified as type 2, if the
  corresponding subframes of the other serving cell are uplink subframes. Subframes 3, 4,
  8, and 9 of SCell include hash marks to indicate that they may be type 2 subframes. In
  accordance with method 700, the HARQ ACK/NACK information of the type 2 subframes
                                               - 10 -

   of the SCell may be transmitted according to the HARQ timing of the TDD configuration
   of the SCell, e.g., TDD configuration 2. It may be noted that TDD configuration 2 would
   be selected either in option I or 2 of method 700 in this instance.
            Figure 9 schematically illustrates an example of a HARQ signal scheduling
   diagram in accordance with various embodiments. According to one embodiment,
   downlink subframes may be identified as type 1 or type 2. In this embodiment, subframes
   0, 1, 5, 6, and 9 of the PCell and the SCell may be type 1 subframes, while subframe 4 of
   the PCell and subframes 7 and 8 of the SCell may be type 2 subframes. As described in
   method 700, the HARQ timing of the TDD configuration of the PCell will be used for the
 > type I subframes, whether they are in the PCell or the SCell.
            With respect to the type 2 subframe of the PCell, i.e., subframe 4, the HARQ
   ACK/NACK information may be scheduled according to the TDD configuration of the
   PCell, e.g., TDD configuration 1. This may be the case with either option I or 2 of
   method 700.
            With respect to the type 2 subframes of the SCell, i.e., subframes 7 and 8, the
   HARQ ACK/NACK information may be feedback according to the HARQ timing of TDD
   configuration 3, e.g., TDD configuration of the SCell, in the event option 1 of method 700
   were used. However, if option 2 of method 700 were used, the HARQ ACKJNACK
   information may be scheduled according to a HARQ TDD configuration selected
 ) according to method 400. In this instance, the HARQ TDD configuration may be TDD
   configuration 4, given that the PCell has a TDD configuration I and SCell has a TDD
   configuration 3.
            The eNB 104 and UE 108 described herein may be implemented into a system
   using any suitable hardware and/or software to configure as desired. Figure 10 illustrates,
5  for one embodiment, an example system 1000 comprising one or more processor(s) 1004,
   system control logic 1008 coupled with at least one of the processor(s) 1004, system
   memory 1012 coupled with system control logic 1008, non-volatile memory
   (NVM)/storage 1016 coupled with system control logic 1008, and a network interface
    1020 coupled with system control logic 1008.
0           Processor(s) 1004 may include one or more single-core or multi-core processors.
   Processor(s) 1004 may include any combination of general-purpose processors and
   dedicated processors (e.g., graphics processors, application processors, baseband
   processors, etc.). In an embodiment in which the system 1000 implements UE 108,
   processors(s) 1004 may include processor module 152 and be configured to execute the
                                                 - 11 -

   embodiments of Figures 2-9 in accordance with various embodiments. In an embodiment
   in which the system 1000 implements eNB 104, processor(s) 1004 may include processor
   module 128 and be configured to decode the HARQ ACK/NACK information transmitted
  by UE 108.
           System control logic 1008 for one embodiment may include any suitable interface
  controllers to provide for any suitable interface to at least one of the processor(s) 1004
  and/or to any suitable device or component in communication with system control logic
   1008.
           System control logic 1008 for one embodiment may include one or more memory
  controller(s) to provide an interface to system memory 1012. System memory 1012 may
  be used to load and store data and/or instructions, for example, for system 1000. System
  memory 1012 for one embodiment may include any suitable volatile memory, such as
  suitable dynamic random access memory (DRAM), for example.
           NVM/storage 1016 may include one or more tangible, non-transitory computer
  readable media used to store data and/or instructions, for example. NVM/storage 1016
  may include any suitable non-volatile memory, such as flash memory, for example, and/or
  may include any suitable non-volatile storage device(s), such as one or more hard disk
  drive(s) (HDD(s)), one or more compact disk (CD) drive(s), and/or one or more digital
  versatile disk (DVD) drive(s), for example.
           The NVM/storage 1016 may include a storage resource physically part of a device
  on which the system 1000 is installed or it may be accessible by, but not necessarily a part
  of, the device. For example, the NVM/storage 1016 may be accessed over a network via
  the network interface 1020.
           System memory 1012 and NVM/storage 1016 may respectively include, in
5 particular, temporal and persistent copies of instructions 1024. Instructions 1024 may
  include instructions that when executed by at least one of the processor(s) 1004 result in
  the system 1000 implementing a one or both of methods 400 and 700 as described herein.
  In some embodiments, instructions 1024, or hardware, firmware, and/or software
  components thereof, may additionally/alternatively be located in the system control logic
0 1008, the network interface 1020, and/or the processor(s) 1004.
          Network interface 1020 may have a transceiver 1022 to provide a radio interface
  for system 1000 to communicate over one or more network(s) and/or with any other
  suitable device. The transceiver 1022 may be implement receiver module 144 and/or
  transmitter module 148. In various embodiments, the transceiver 1022 may be integrated
                                               - 12 -

  with other components of system 1000. For example, the transceiver 1022 may include a
  processor of the processor(s) 1004, memory of the system memory 1012, and
  NVM/Storage of NVM/Storage 1016. Network interface 1020 may include any suitable
  hardware and/or firmware. Network interface 1020 may include a plurality of antennas to
  provide a multiple input, multiple output radio interface. Network interface 1020 for one
  embodiment may include, for example, a network adapter, a wireless network adapter, a
  telephone modem, and/or a wireless modem.
           For one embodiment, at least one of the processor(s) 1004 may be packaged
  together with logic for one or more controller(s) of system control logic 1008. For one
  embodiment, at least one of the processor(s) 1004 may be packaged together with logic for
  one or more controllers of system control logic 1008 to form a System in Package (SiP).
  For one embodiment, at least one of the processor(s) 1004 may be integrated on the same
  die with logic for one or more controller(s) of system control logic 1008. For one
  embodiment, at least one of the processor(s) 1004 may be integrated on the same die with
  logic for one or more controller(s) of system control logic 1008 to form a System on Chip
  (SoC).
           The system 1000 may further include input/output (I/O) devices 1032. The I/O
  devices 1032 may include user interfaces designed to enable user interaction with the
  system 1000, peripheral component interfaces designed to enable peripheral component
  interaction with the system 1000, and/or sensors designed to determine environmental
  conditions and/or location information related to the system 1000.
           In various embodiments, the user interfaces could include, but are not limited to, a
  display (e.g., a liquid crystal display, a touch screen display, etc.), a speaker, a
  microphone, one or more cameras (e.g., a still camera and/or a video camera), a flashlight
5 (e.g., a light emitting diode flash), and a keyboard.
           In various embodiments, the peripheral component interfaces may include, but are
  not limited to, a non-volatile memory port, an audio jack, and a power supply interface.
           In various embodiments, the sensors may include, but are not limited to, a gyro
  sensor, an accelerometer, a proximity sensor, an ambient light sensor, and a positioning
0 unit. The positioning unit may also be part of, or interact with, the network interface 1020
  to communicate with components of a positioning network, e.g., a global positioning
  system (GPS) satellite.
           In various embodiments, the system 1000 may be a mobile computing device such
  as, but not limited to, a laptop computing device, a tablet computing device, a netbook, a
                                                 - 13 -

  mobile phone, etc. In various embodiments, system 1000 may have more or less
  components, and/or different architectures.
           The disclosure may include various example embodiments disclosed below.
           According to various example embodiments, a method may include establishing,
  by a mobile device, a primary serving cell (PCell) and a secondary serving (SCell) with a
  base station. The PCell may be established with a first TDD configuration, and the SCell
  may be established with a second TDD configuration. The method my include receiving,
  by the mobile device, downlink data through the SCell, and selecting, by the mobile
  device, a reference TDD configuration based on the first and second TDD configurations.
  The method may include transmitting acknowledgement information associated with the
  downlink data according to a hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) timing of the
  reference TDD configuration.
           In embodiments, the reference TDD configuration may be different from the TDD
  configuration indicated by a system information block of the SCell.
           In embodiments, the system information block may be System Information Block
   1 (SIB1).
           In embodiments, the first TDD configuration may be indicated by SIB I of PCell,
  and
           the second TDD configuration may be indicated by SIB 1 of SCell.
           In embodiments, the method may further include determining uplink subframes
  common between the first TDD configuration and the second TDD configuration, and
  selecting the reference TDD configuration based on the determined uplink subframes
  common between the first TDD configuration and the second TDD configuration.
           In embodiments, selecting the reference TDD configuration may include
5 identifying the uplink subframes common between the first TDD configuration and the
  second TDD configuration, and may include selecting the reference TDD configuration
  based on a determination that uplink subframes of the reference TDD configuration may
  be the same as the common uplink subframes between the first TDD configuration and the
  second configuration.
0          In embodiments, selecting the reference TDD configuration may include selecting
  the first TDD configuration as the reference TDD configuration if all downlink subframes
  of the second TDD configuration are a subset of all downlink subframes of the first TDD
  configuration, and may include selecting the second TDD configuration as the reference
                                               - 14 -

   TDD configuration if all downlink subframes of the second TDD configuration are a
   superset of all downlink subframes of the first TDD configuration.
            In embodiments, selecting the reference TDD configuration may include selecting
   TDD DL/UL configuration 4, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration
    I and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3; selecting TDD
   DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2 and
   the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3; and selecting TDD DL/UL
   configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2 and the
   second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 4.
 >          In embodiments, selecting the acknowledgment TDD may include selecting TDD
   DL/UL configuration 4, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3 and
   the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 1; selecting TDD DL/UL
   configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3 and the
   second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2; and selecting TDD DL/UL
   configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 4 and the
   second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2.
            In embodiments, acknowledgement information may include hybrid automatic
   repeat request acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK) signals, and only HARQ-ACK signals
   associated with the downlink data of the SCell may be transmitted according to the HARQ
 > timing of the reference TDD configuration. HARQ-ACK signals associated with
   downlink data of the PCell may be transmitted only according to the HARQ timing of the
   first TDD configuration.
            In embodiments, transmitting the acknowledgement information may include
   transmitting a positive or negative acknowledgement according to the HARQ timing of the
5  reference TDD configuration through at least one uplink subframe.
            In embodiments, each of the first, second, and reference TDD configurations may
   include at least one of TDD downlink/uplink (DL/UL) configurations 0-6 associated with
   release 8 of 3rd Generation Partnership Project's long term evolution (LTE) advanced
   wireless communication standard.
0           According to various example embodiments, a method may include
   communicating, by a mobile device, with a base station via first and second component
   carriers having different frequency bands and time division duplexing (TDD)
   configurations. The method may include receiving one or more downlink transmissions
   via the second component carrier, and selecting a hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ)
                                                - 15 -

  timing sequence based on the TDD configurations of the first and second component
  carriers. The method may include transmitting one or more positive acknowledgment
  and/or negative acknowledgement (ACK/NACK) signals, associated with the one or more
  downlink transmissions, according to the selected HARQ timing sequence.
           In embodiments, selecting the HARQ timing sequence may include identifying, by
  the mobile device, each downlink subframe of the first and second component carriers as
  either a first type of downlink subframe or a second type of downlink subframe. Each
  downlink subframe of one of the first and second component carriers may be the first type
  if a corresponding subframe of the other of the first and second component carriers is also
  a downlink subframe. Each downlink subframe of the one of the first and second
  component carriers may be the second type if a corresponding subframe of the other of the
  first and second component carriers is an uplink subframe. Selecting the HARQ timing
  sequence may also include selectively transmitting, by the mobile device, the one or more
  ACK/NACK signals associated with each downlink subframe based on whether the
  downlink subframe is identified as the first type of downlink subframe or the second type
  of downlink subframe.
           In embodiments, selectively transmitting the one or more ACKiNACK signals may
  include transmitting the one or more ACK/NACK signals according to the TDD
  configuration of the first component carrier for each downlink subframe identified as the
  first type of downlink subframe.
           In embodiments, selectively transmitting the one or more ACK/NACK signals may
  include transmitting the one or more ACK/NACK signals according to the TDD
  configuration of the second component carrier for each downlink subframe of the second
  component carrier identified as the second type of downlink subframe and transmitting the
5 one or more ACK/NACK signals according to the TDD configuration of the first
  component carrier for each downlink subframe of the first component carrier identified as
  the second type of downlink subframe.
           In embodiments, selectively transmitting the one or more ACK/NACK signals may
  include transmitting the one or more ACK/NACK signals according to a reference TDD
0 configuration for each downlink subframe of the second component carrier identified as
  the second type and transmitting the one or more ACK/NACK signals according to the
  TDD configuration of the first component carrier for each downlink subframe of the first
  component carrier identified as the second type.
                                              - 16 -

           In embodiments, the reference TDD configuration may be selected to contain
  uplink subframes that are the same as subframes that are common to TDD configurations
  of both the first and second component carriers.
           In embodiments, each of the TDD configurations may include one of
  configurations 0-6 associated with release 8 of 3rd Generation Partnership Project's
  (3GPP) long term evolution (LTE) advanced wireless communication standard.
           In embodiments, the mobile device may be a mobile phone, a netbook, a laptop, an
  electronic tablet, or a data system of a vehicle.
           According to various example embodiments, at least one machine readable
  medium may include a number of instructions that, in response to being executed on a
  computing device, cause the computing device to carry out any of the example
  embodiments of disclosed methods.
           According to various example embodiments, an apparatus may include a
  communication module configured to communicate with a base station via first and
  second component carriers having different frequency bands and time division duplexing
  (TDD) configurations. The communication module may be configured to receive one or
  more downlink transmissions via the second component carrier. The apparatus may
  include a hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) module coupled with the
  communication module and configured to select a HARQ timing sequence based on the
  TDD configurations of the first and second component carriers. The HARQ module may
  be configured to generate one or more positive acknowledgment and/or negative
  acknowledgement (ACK/NACK) signals, associated with the one or more downlink
  transmissions. The communication module may be further configured to transmit the one
  or more ACK/NACK signals according to the selected HARQ timing sequence.
5          In embodiments, the HARQ module may be further configured to identify uplink
  subframes common between the TDD configurations of the first and second component
  carriers. The selected HARQ timing sequence may be a HARQ timing sequence of a
  reference TDD configuration having the same uplink subframes as the identified common
  uplink subframes.
0          In embodiments, Each of the TDD configurations may include one of TDD
  configurations 0-6 associated with release 8 of 3rd Generation Partnership Project's long
  term evolution (LTE) advanced wireless communication standard.
          Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for
  purposes of description, a wide variety of alternate and/or equivalent embodiments or
                                               -17-

implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the
embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present
disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the
embodiments discussed herein. Therefore, it is manifestly intended that embodiments
described herein be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.
        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.

       1. An apparatus comprising:
       one or more computer-readable media having instructions; and
       one or more processors, coupled with the one or more computer-readable media, to
execute the instructions to implement a communication module and a hybrid automatic
repeat request (HARQ) module, wherein the HARQ module is to identify a reference time
division duplex (TDD) configuration based on a first TDD configuration of a primary
serving cell (PCell) and a second TDD configuration of a secondary serving cell (SCell), and
the communication module is to transmit acknowledgement information associated with
downlink data received through the SCell according to a HARQ timing of the reference TDD
configuration, wherein:
               the acknowledgement information includes HARQ-acknowledgement
       (HARQ-ACK) signals;
               only HARQ-ACK signals associated with the downlink data of the SCell are to
       be transmitted according to the HARQ timing of the reference TDD configuration;
       and
               HARQ-ACK signals associated with downlink data of the PCell are to be
       transmitted only according to the HARQ timing of the first TDD configuration.
       2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the reference TDD configuration is different
from the TDD configuration indicated by a system information block of the SCell.
       3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the system information block is
System Information Block 1 (SIB1).
       4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:
       the first TDD configuration is indicated by system information block (SIB1) of PCell;
and
       the second TDD configuration is indicated by SIB 1 of SCell.
       5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the HARQ module is to:
                                              19

       identify uplink subframes common between the first TDD configuration and the
second TDD configuration; and
       identify the reference TDD configuration based on the determined
uplink subframes common between the first TDD configuration and the second
TDD configuration.
       6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein, to identify the reference TDD configuration,
the HARQ module is to:
       identify the uplink subframes common between the first TDD configuration and the
second TDD configuration; and
       identify the reference TDD configuration based on a determination that
uplink subframes of the reference TDD configuration are the same as the common
uplink subframes between the first TDD configuration and the second configuration.
       7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein, to identify the reference TDD configuration,
the HARQ module is to:
       identify the first TDD configuration as the reference TDD configuration if downlink
subframes of the second TDD configuration are a subset of downlink subframes of the first
TDD configuration; and
       identify the second TDD configuration as the reference TDD configuration
if downlink subframes of the second TDD configuration are a superset of
downlink subframes of the first TDD configuration.
       8. The apparatus of any of claims 1-7, wherein, to identify the reference TDD
configuration, the HARQ module is to:
       identify TDD DL/UL configuration 4, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 1 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3;
       identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 2 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3; and
       identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 2 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 4.
                                              20

        9. The apparatus of any of claims 1-7, wherein, to identify the reference TDD
configuration, the HARQ module is to:
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 4, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 3 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 1;
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 3 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2; and
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 4 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2.
        10. The apparatus of any of claims 1-7, wherein the communication module is
further to transmit a positive or negative acknowledgement according to the HARQ timing
of the reference TDD configuration through at least one uplink subframe.
        11. The apparatus of any of claims 1-7, wherein each of the first, second, and
reference TDD configurations include at least one of TDD downlink/uplink (DL/UL)
configurations 0-6 associated with release 8 of 3rd Generation Partnership Project's long
term evolution (LTE) advanced wireless communication standard.
        12. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media comprising instructions
that, when executed by one or more processors of an apparatus, are to cause the apparatus
to:
        identify a downlink data received through a secondary serving cell (SCell) that has a
second time division duplex (TDD) configuration;
        identify a reference TDD configuration based on a first TDD configuration of a
primary serving cell (PCell) and the second TDD configuration; and
        transmit acknowledgement information associated with downlink data received
through the SCell according to a HARQ timing of the reference TDD configuration, wherein:
                the acknowledgement information includes HARQ-acknowledgement
        (HARQ-ACK) signals;
                                              21

                only HARQ-ACK signals associated with the downlink data of the SCell are to
        be transmitted according to the HARQ timing of the reference TDD configuration;
        and
                HARQ-ACK signals associated with downlink data of the PCell are to be
        transmitted only according to the HARQ timing of the first TDD configuration.
        13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein
the reference TDD configuration is different from the TDD configuration indicated by a
system information block of the SCell.
        14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 13, wherein
the system information block is System Information Block 1 (SIB1).
        15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein:
        the first TDD configuration is indicated by system information block (SIB1) of PCell;
and
        the second TDD configuration is indicated by SIB1 of SCell.
        16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein
the instructions are further to:
        identify uplink subframes common between the first TDD configuration and the
second TDD configuration; and
        identify the reference TDD configuration based on the determined
uplink subframes common between the first TDD configuration and the second
TDD configuration.
        17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein,
to identify the reference TDD configuration, the instructions are further to:
        identify the uplink subframes common between the first TDD configuration and the
second TDD configuration; and
                                               22

        identify the reference TDD configuration based on a determination that
uplink subframes of the reference TDD configuration are the same as the common
uplink subframes between the first TDD configuration and the second configuration.
        18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein,
to identify the reference TDD configuration, the instructions are further to:
        identify the first TDD configuration as the reference TDD configuration if downlink
subframes of the second TDD configuration are a subset of downlink subframes of the first
TDD configuration; and
        identify the second TDD configuration as the reference TDD configuration
if downlink subframes of the second TDD configuration are a superset of
downlink subframes of the first TDD configuration.
        19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of any of claims 12
18, wherein, to identify the reference TDD configuration, the instructions are further to:
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 4, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 1 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3;
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 2 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 3; and
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 2 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 4.
        20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of any of claims 12
18, wherein, to identify the reference TDD configuration, the instructions are further to:
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 4, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 3 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 1;
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 3 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2; and
        identify TDD DL/UL configuration 5, if the first TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL
configuration 4 and the second TDD configuration is TDD DL/UL configuration 2.
                                               23

        21. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of any of claims 12
18, wherein the instructions are further to:
       transmit a positive or negative acknowledgement according to the HARQ timing of
the reference TDD configuration through at least one uplink subframe.
        22. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of any of claims 12
18, wherein each of the first, second, and reference TDD configurations include at least one
of TDD downlink/uplink (DL/UL) configurations 0-6 associated with release 8 of
3rd Generation Partnership Project's long term evolution (LTE) advanced wireless
communication standard.
                                              24

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
