Abstract
Disclosed is an antibody which binds to olanzapine, which can be used to detect
olanzapine in a sample such as in a competitive immunoassay method. The antibody
can be used in a lateral flow assay device for point-of-care detection of olanzapine,
including multiplex detection of aripiprazole, olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone in
a single lateral flow assay device.

                 Antibodies to Olanzapine Haptens and Use Thereof
[0000] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013305895, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
                       Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application           No.
61/691,572, filed August 21, 2012.
                                 Field of the Invention
[0002] The present invention relates to the field of immunoassays, and in particular to
antibodies that bind to olanzapine which can be used in immunoassays for detection of
olanzapine.
                                       Background
[0003] Schizophrenia is a chronic and debilitating psychiatric disorder affecting
approximately 0.45-1 % of the world's population (van Os, J.; Kapur, S. "Schizophrenia"
Lancet 2009, 374, 635-645). The principal goals of treatment are to achieve sustained
remission from psychotic symptoms, reduce the risk and consequences of relapse, and
improve patient functioning and overall quality of life.     While many patients with
schizophrenia are able to achieve symptom stability with the available antipsychotic
medications, poor adherence to medication is a common reason for relapse with daily
administered oral medications.    Several studies (Abdel-Baki, A.; Ouellet-Plamondon,
C.; Malla, A. "Pharmacotherapy Challenges in Patients with First-Episode Psychosis"
Journal of Affective Disorders 2012, 138, S3-S14) investigating the outcomes of non
compliance have shown that patients with schizophrenia who do not take their
medication as prescribed have higher rates of relapse, hospital admission and suicide
as well as increased mortality.      It is estimated that 40 to 75% of patients with
schizophrenia have difficulty adhering to a daily oral treatment regimen (Lieberman, J.
A.; Stroup, T. S.; McEvoy, J. P.; Swartz, M. S.; Rosenheck, R. A.; Perkins, D. 0.;
Keefe, R. S. E.; Davis, S. M.; Davis, C. E.; Lebowitz, B. D.; Severe, J.; Hsiao, J. K.
"Effectiveness of Antipyschotic Drugs in Patients with Chronic Schizophrenia" New
England Journal of Medicine 2005, 353(12), 1209-1223).
                                             1

[0004]  Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is the quantification of serum or plasma
concentrations of drugs, including anti-psychotic drugs, for treatment monitoring and
optimization. Such monitoring permits, for example, the identification
                                            la

of patients that are not adhering to their medication regimen, that are not achieving
therapeutic doses, that are         non-responsive at therapeutic doses, that have
suboptimal tolerability, that have pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, or that have
abnormal     metabolism       resulting   in   inappropriate    plasma     concentrations.
Considerable individual variability exists in the patient's ability to absorb, distribute,
metabolize, and excrete anti-psychotic drugs. Such differences can be caused by
concurrent disease, age, concomitant medication or genetic peculiarities. Different
drug formulations can also influence the metabolism of anti-psychotic drugs. TDM
permits dose optimization for individual patients, improving therapeutic and functional
outcomes.    TDM further permits a prescribing clinician to ensure compliance with
prescribed dosages and achievement of effective serum concentrations.
[0005]       To date, methods for determining the levels of serum or plasma
concentrations of anti-psychotic drugs involve the use of liquid chromatography (LC)
with UV or mass spectrometry detection, and radioimmunoassays (see, for example,
Woestenborghs et al., 1990 "On the selectivity of some recently developed RIA's" in
Methodological Surveys in Biochemistry and Analysis 20:241-246. Analysis of Drugs
and Metabolites, Including Anti-infective Agents;         Heykants et al.,    1994 "The
Pharmacokinetics of Risperidone in Humans: A Summary", J Clin Psychiatry 55/5,
suppl:13-17; Huang et al., 1993 "Pharmacokinetics of the novel anti-psychotic agent
risperidone and the prolactin response in healthy subjects", Clin Pharmacol Ther
54:257-268).      Radioimmunoassays        detect one     or both    of risperidone    and
paliperidone. Salamone et al. in US Patent No. 8,088,594 disclose a competitive
immunoassay for rispeidone using antibodies that detect both risperidone and
paliperidone but not pharmacologically inactive metabolites. The antibodies used in
the competitive immunoassay are developed against a particular immunogen.               ID
Labs Inc. (London, Ontario, Canada) markets an ELISA for olanzapine, another anti
psychotic drug, which also utilizes a competitive format. The Instructions For Use
indicate that the assay is designed for screening purposes and intended for forensic
or research use, and is specifically not intended for therapeutic use. The Instructions
recommend       that  all   positive    samples    should    be    confirmed   with    gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and indicate that the antibody used
detects olanzapine and clozapine (see ID Labs Inc., "Instructions For Use Data Sheet
IDEL-F083", Rev. Date Aug. 8, 2011). Some of these methods, namely HPLC and
                                             2

GC/MS, can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are generally only performed in
large or specialty labs having the appropriate equipment.
[0006]         A need exists for other methods for determining the levels of anti
psychotic drugs, particularly methods that can be performed in a prescribing
clinician's office (where the treatment for an individual patient can be adjusted
accordingly in a much more timely manner) and in other medical settings lacking LC
or GC/MS equipment or requiring rapid test results.
[0007]         Olanzapine is:
            r-N
           <N
            N
             e
                                  Summary of the Invention
[0008]         The present invention is directed to an isolated antibody or a binding
fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which: (i) is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii)
competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by the antibody of
(i).
[0009]         Formula 1:
                    N-/ -R2
                   /N
                    N
     R                   -R
               N-'
             R3
wherein:
                                     0 0
                                -  N       N0
                       0    0      H    n    ..
                                                .N nn
                     N
R' is H,                      ,                       0       ,CH 2NH 2 ,
CH2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),-G;
                                            3

                                      0  0
                                    N        N                0
                       0            H
                                                  N        N
   2 is H,                    ,CH                                      2NH2 ,
CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2 H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
R3 is H, or W-(Y),j-G; provided that two of R, R2 , R3 must be H, and further provided
that R11 R2 and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4)-, -O-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonyl-,
     0      0                R4            0
 -      -    -                    N-NH-j       NH-NH
     O  ,   OR 4     0
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
                          0
                     --N   ~     -R4N-S   --
-N(R4)- ,              R-N
                        40                    0
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, araalkyl group or substituted or
unsubstituted aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[0010]         Presently preferred embodiments of the antibody of the subject invention
are the antibodies designated 35 and 61 generated against the compound having
Formula 11and the antibodies designated 3F11 and 4G9-1 generated against the
compound having Formula Ill. Another suitable immunogen is the compound having
Formula IV.
                                               4

[0011]      Formula II (Compound 11):
                                                                  N
                                                                  N
                                                                N
                   H                                          N
  PROTEIN-N                                                       _N
                              S         N                   -       H
                      0                           H
                                  0
[0012]      Formula Ill (Compound 15):
                    Compound '15
 Protein                                                   N
                                                  \N       H
                                           H
[0013]      Formula IV (Compound 10):
                    H0
  PROTEIN                    H     r        ~H
                                    0             H
                                                           N
                                                        ~] H
[0014]      The antibodies of the subject invention can be provided in assay kits and
assay devices, with a presently preferred device being a lateral flow assay device
which provides for point-of-care analysis.
                                           5

[0015]        The invention further provides a method of producing an antibody which
binds to olanzapine, the method comprising: (i) selecting a host cell for antibody
production; and (ii) inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
and an immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody which binds to
olanzapine. Further provided is a method of producing a hybridoma cell line capable
of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to olanzapine.               The method
comprises: (i) selecting a host for antibody production; (ii) inoculating the host with a
conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; (iii) fusing a cell
line from the inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to create a fused cell
capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to olanzapine; and (iv)
cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridoma cell line.
[0016]        The invention further provides a method of detecting olanzapine in a
sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an antibody according
to the subject invention which is labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the
labeled antibody and olanzapine present in the sample form a labeled complex; and
(ii) detecting the labeled complex so as to detect olanzapine in the sample.
[0017]         Further provided is a competitive immunoassay method for detecting
olanzapine in a sample. The method comprises:           (i) contacting a sample with an
antibody according to the subject invention, and with olanzapine or a competitive
binding partner of olanzapine, wherein one of the antibody and the olanzapine or
competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable marker, and wherein
sample olanzapine competes with the olanzapine or competitive binding partner
thereof for binding to the antibody; and (ii) detecting the label so as to detect sample
olanzapine.
[0018]         Further objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be
apparent to those skilled in the art from detailed consideration of the preferred
embodiments that follow.
                           Brief Description of the Drawings
[0019]         Figs. 1-3 show Competitive ELISA results generated with three different
mouse fusion 11.1 hybridomas;
[0020]         Fig. 4 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow
assay device;
                                             6

[0021]       Fig. 5 shows a typical dose response curve generated with olanzapine
antibody clone 35;
[0022]       Fig. 6 shows a typical dose response curve generated with olanzapine
antibody clone 61;
[0023]       Fig. 7 shows a typical dose response curve generated with olanzapine
antibody 3F1 1;
[0024]       Fig. 8 shows the chip design of a lateral flow assay device according to
the subject invention;
[0025]       Fig. 9 shows a typical dose response curve for an aripiprazole positive
control generated with antibody 507 and a labeled aripiprazole competitive binding
partner
[0026]       Fig. 10 shows a typical dose response curve for an olanzapine positive
control generated with antibody 4G9-1 and a labeled olanzapine competitive binding
partner;
[0027]       Fig. 11 shows a typical dose response curve for a quetiapine positive
control generated with antibody 11 and a labeled quetiapine competitive binding
partner;
[0028]       Fig. 12 shows a typical dose response curve for a risperidone positive
control generated with antibody 5-9 and a labeled risperidone competitive binding
partner;
[0029]       Fig. 13 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
aripiprazole generated with aripiprazole antibody 5C7 in the presence of labeled
aripiprazole competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for olanzapine,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[0030]       Fig. 14 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
olanzapine generated with olanzapine antibody 4G9-1 in the presence of a labeled
olanzapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[0031]       Fig. 15 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
quetiapine generated with quetiapine antibody 11 in the presence of a labeled
quetiapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
                                           7

olanzapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner
for each;
[0032]       Fig. 16 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
risperidone generated with risperidone antibody 5-9 in the presence of a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or quetiapine in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[0033]       Fig. 17 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
aripiprazole generated with aripiprazole antibody 5C7 in the presence of a labeled
aripiprazole competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for olanzapine,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0034]       Fig. 18 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
olanzapine generated with olanzapine antibody 4G9-1 in the presence of a labeled
olanzapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0035]       Fig. 19 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
quetiapine generated with quetiapine antibody 11 in the presence of labeled
quetiapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0036]       Fig. 20 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
risperidone generated with risperidone antibody 5-9 in the presence of a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or quetiapine in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive binding
partner for each;
[0037]       Fig. 21 shows a comparison of the aripiprazole dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the aripiprazole dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format;
[0038]       Fig. 22 shows a comparison of the olanzapine dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the olanzapine dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format;
                                            8

[0039]        Fig. 23 shows a comparison of the quetiapine dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the quetiapine dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format; and
[0040]        Fig. 24 shows a comparison of the risperidone dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the risperidone dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format.
                    Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0041]        The invention provides an isolated antibody which binds to olanzapine.
The invention further provides an assay kit and an assay device comprising the
antibody. Also provided are methods of producing the antibody and of producing a
hybridoma cell line capable of producing the antibody. Further provided is a method
of detecting olanzapine in a sample, including a competitive immunoassay method.
[0042]        In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0043]        Formula 1:
                 -N
                     -R2
                 N
           N=
 RI           N
            R3
wherein:
                                  0   0
                             0  N         N'0
                 0              H              N
R' is H,      H          0                           0       ,CH2NH2 ,
CH 2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO2H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
                                            9

                                      0  0
                                    N        N                0
                       0            H
                                                  N        N
   2 is H,                    ,CH                                      2NH2 ,
CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2 H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
R3 is H, or W-(Y),j-G; provided that two of R, R2 , R3 must be H, and further provided
that R11 R2 and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4)-, -O-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonyl-,
     0      0                R4            0
 -      -    -                    N-NH-j       NH-NH
     O  ,   OR 4     0
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
                          0
                     --N   ~     -R4N-S   --
-N(R4)- ,              R-N
                        40                    0
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, araalkyl group or substituted or
unsubstituted aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[0044]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
                                              10

                                       0  0
                    0           'CQN        KN'
                        N           NN
                N'                  HmN                      OH
R is H,         H          O,                         0    0
         0  0
     N           N                 0
     H
                      N
                              0       ,CH 2 NH 2, CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO2 H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
                                       0  0
                    0                          N
                   0                H               NnOH
R2 isH          H          0                          0    0
         0  0
   <N1 «Nk                         0
                      - NN
                         H     N
                              0       ,CH2NH 2 , CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2 H, or Z-(Y)p,-G;
provided that either R or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R1 and R2
may not be H simultaneously;
R3 isH;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R)-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonyl-,
   0        0               R4              0              0
           -A            -
                       ---        N-NH-
                                ---             NH-NH
   0   ,    OR 4     0                    7,               0:
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, araalkyl group or substituted or
unsubstituted aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
                                                11

[0045]        In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
R" is H, or CH2NH-(Y)p-G;
R2 is H, or CH2 NH-(Y)p-G; provided that either R1 or R2 must be H, and further
provided that both R1 and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
R3 is H,
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1.
[0046]        In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i): wherein:
                                   0   0
                  0              N-     m N
                                 H      MQ        NOH
R1 is H,                  o,                        0         ,
        0  0
        N       N
     H             N/
          H         .NN
                             0     , CH 2 NH 2, or CH 2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2 H;
                                             12

                                           0    0
                              o 0,   C'N<N      rn NN,
                   N                                      N      <OH
                            N
           iH,01                                            0   0
        0    0
              N     "n                 0
              I,       r-$/
                                   0       , CH 2 NH 2, or CH2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2 H; provided
that either R* or R must be H, and further provided that both R1 and R2 may riot be H
simultaneously;
R3 is H;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[0047]           In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
W is H,           H               , CH 2 NH2 , or CH 2 NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H;
                        0
R 2 is H,                      0 , CH2 NH2 , or CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2H; provided that either
         2
R" or R must be H, and further provided that both R' and R may not be H
simultaneously;
R3 is H;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[0048]           In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which:
(i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula V and an
                                                     13

immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0049]       Formula V
           N      HN0
                          N
        H
[0050]       In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which:
(i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula VI and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0051]       Formula VI
                              N
          NN
                        H
[0052]       In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which:
(i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula VII and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0053]       Formula VI
                                      N
                                    N
   0
[0054]       In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which:
                                          14

(i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula Vill and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0055]        Formula Vill
                                  N
                               N-
                N          N
 HO-            H   kl       N (S
      H                      H
[0056]        In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which:
(i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula IX and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0057]        Formula IX
                     /N
                   N>
               N
                 H
[0058]        In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which:
(i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula X and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0059]        Formula X
            - N
           N        NH2
        N
           N
         H
[0060]        Preferably, the antibody of the subject invention is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound selected from the compounds of: Formula I, Formula
                                            15

V, Formula VI, Formula VIl, Formula Vill, Formula IX, and Formula X; and an
immunogenic carrier.
[0061]        Further details of the compounds described by the formulas above and
the conjugates formed by the compounds and an immunogenic carrier are provided
in the section below entitled "Compounds, Conjugates and Immunogens".
[0062]        Further details of the antibodies of the subject invention are provided in
the section below entitled "Antibodies".
[0063]       The subject invention further provides an assay kit comprising the
antibody, as well as an assay device comprising the antibody. Preferably, the assay
device is a lateral flow assay device.     Further details of the assay kits and assay
devices are provided below in the section entitled "Assay Kits and Devices".
[0064]       The invention further provides a method of producing an antibody which
binds to olanzapine, the method comprising: (i) selecting a host cell for antibody
production; and (ii) inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
and an immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody which binds to
olanzapine. In additional embodiments, the conjugate used in the method can be a
conjugate of a compound selected from the compounds of: Formula V, Formula VI,
Formula VII, Formula VillI, Formula IX, and Formula X; and an immunogenic carrier.
Further details on the production of the antibodies of the subject invention are
provided in the section below entitled "Antibodies".
[0065]        Further provided is a method of producing a hybridoma cell line capable
of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to olanzapine.               The method
comprises: (i) selecting a host for antibody production; (ii) inoculating the host with a
conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; (iii) fusing a cell
line from the inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to create a fused cell
capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to olanzapine; and (iv)
cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridomna cell line.              In additional
embodiments, the conjugate used in the method can be a conjugate of a compound
selected from the compounds of: Formula V, Formula VI, Formula VIl, Formula Vill,
Formula IX, and Formula X; and an immunogenic carrier.            Further details of the
production of hybridomas in accordance with the subject invention are provided in the
section below entitled "Antibodies".
[0066]       The invention further provides a method of detecting olanzapine in a
sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an antibody according
                                            16

to the subject invention which is labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the
labeled antibody and olanzapine present in the sample form a labeled complex; and
(ii) detecting the labeled complex so as to detect olanzapine in the sample. Further
details of the method of detecting olanzapine in accordance with the subject
invention are provided in the section below entitled "Immunoassays".
[0067]        Further provided is a competitive immunoassay method for detecting
olanzapine in a sample. The method comprises:            (i) contacting a sample with an
antibody according to the subject invention, and with olanzapine or a competitive
binding partner of olanzapine, wherein one of the antibody and the olanzapine or
competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable marker, and wherein
sample olanzapine competes with the olanzapine or competitive binding partner
thereof for binding to the antibody; and (ii) detecting the label so as to detect sample
olanzapine.     Further details of the competitive irnmunoassay method of detecting
olanzapine in accordance with the subject invention are provided in the section below
entitled "Immunoassays".
[0068]        In a preferred embodiment of the subject invention, the detection of
olanzapine is accompanied by the detection of one or more analytes in addition to
olanzapine. Preferably the one or more analytes are anti-psychotic drugs other than
olanzapine, and more preferably the anti-psychotic drugs other than olanzapine are
selected from the group consisting of:          aripiprazole, risperidone, paliperidone,
quetiapine, and metabolites thereof.
[0069]        As discussed above, the antibodies of the subject invention can be used
in assays to detect the presence and/or amount of the anti-psychotic drug in patient
samples.     Such detection permits therapeutic drug monitoring enabling all of the
benefits thereof. Detection of levels of anti-psychotic drugs may be useful for many
purposes, each of which represents another embodiment of the subject invention,
including: determination of patient adherence or compliance with prescribed therapy;
use as a decision tool to determine whether a patient should be converted from an
oral anti-psychotic regimen to a long-acting injectable anti-psychotic regimen; use as
a decision tool to determine if the dose level or dosing interval of oral or injectable
anti-psychotics should     be increased     or decreased       to ensure attainment or
maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels; use as an aid in the initiation of anti
psychotic drug therapy by providing evidence of the attainment of minimum pK
levels;   use to    determine    bioequivalence of anti-psychotic drug       in  multiple
                                            17

formulations or from multiple sources; use to assess the impact of polypharmacy and
potential drug-drug interactions; and use as an indication that a patient should be
excluded from or included in a clinical trial and as an aid in the subsequent
monitoring of adherence to clinical trial medication requirements.
COMPOUNDS, CONJUGATES AND IMMUNOGENS
[0070]        In relation to the compounds and conjugates and immunogens, the
following abbreviations are used:        AMAS is N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide
ester;     BTG    is    bovine    thyroglobulin;   Bu3 N     is   tributylamine;    DCC     is
dicyclohexylcarbodiimide; DCM is dichloromethane; DIEA is diisopropylethylamine;
DMF       is  N,N-dimethylformamide;       DMSO      is     dimethylsulfoxide;     EDTA     is
ethylenediaminetetraceticacid; KLH is keyhole limpet hemocyanin; SATA is N
succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate; TEA is triethylamine; THF is tetrahydrofuran; TFA is
trifluoroacetic acid; r.t. is room temperature; DIC is diisopropylcarbodiimide; DMAP is
N,N-dimethyl-4-aminopyridine;          EDC       is      I -ethyl-3(3-dimethylaminopropyl)
carbodiimidehydrochloride; NHS is N-hydroxysuccinimide; TFP is Tetrafluorophenyl;
PNP is p-nitrophenyl; TBTU is O-(Benzotriazol-1-yl)-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
tetrafluoroborate;       HOBT       is   N-Hydroxybenzotriazole;          DEPBT       is   3
(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)-1,2,3-benzotrazin-4(3H)-one;            BOP-CI      is   Bis(2-oxo-3
oxazolidinyl)phosphonic chloride; and DTT is dithioerythritol.
[0071]        The term "conjugate" refers to any substance formed from the joining
together of separate parts. Representative conjugates include those formed by the
joining together of a small molecule, such as the compounds of Formula I, and a
large molecule, such as a carrier or a polyamine polymer, particularly a protein. In the
conjugate the small molecule may be joined at one or more active sites on the large
molecule.
[0072]        The term "hapten" refers to a partial or incomplete antigen. A hapten is a
protein-free substance, which is not capable of stimulating antibody formation, but
which does react with antibodies. The antibodies are formed by coupling a hapten to
a high molecular weight immunogenic carrier, and then injecting this coupled product,
i.e., an immunogen, into a human or animal subject.
[0073]        The term "immunogen" refers to a substance capable of eliciting,
producing, or generating an immune response in an organism.
                                              18

[0074]       An    "immunogenic    carrier,"    as   used  herein,  is  an immunogenic
substance, commonly a protein, that can join at one or more positions with haptens,
thereby enabling the production of antibodies that can bind with these haptens.
Examples of immunogenic carrier substances include, but are not limited to, proteins,
glycoproteins, complex polyamino-polysaccharides, particles, and nucleic acids that
are recognized as foreign and thereby elicit an immunologic response from the host.
The polyamino-polysaccharides may be prepared from polysaccharides using any of
the conventional means known for this preparation.
[0075]       Various protein types may be employed as immunogenic carriers,
including without limitation, albumins, serum proteins, lipoproteins, etc. Illustrative
proteins include bovine serum albumin, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, egg ovalbumin,
bovine thyroglobulin, fraction V human serum albumin, rabbit albumin, pumpkin seed
globulin, diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, botilinus toxin, succinylated proteins, and
synthetic poly(aminoacids) such as polylysine.
[0076]        Immunogenic carriers can also include poly amino-polysaccharides,
which are a high molecular weight polymers built up by repeated condensations of
monosaccharides. Examples of polysaccha rides are starches, glycogen, cellulose,
carbohydrate gums such as gum arabic, agar, and so forth. The polysaccharide also
contains poly(amino acid) residues and/or lipid residues.
[0077]       The immunogenic carrier can also be a poly(nucleic acid) either alone or
conjugated to one of the above mentioned poly(amino acids) or polysaccharides.
[0078]         The immunogenic carrier can also include solid particles. The particles
are generally at least about 0.02 microns (rtm) and not more than about 100 pm, and
usually about 0.05 pm to 10 pm in diameter. The particle can be organic or inorganic,
swellable   or    non-swellable,  porous     or    non-porous,  optimally of a density
approximating water, generally from about 0.7 to 1.5 g/mL, and composed of material
that can be transparent, partially transparent, or opaque. The particles can be
biological materials such as cells and microorganisms, including non-limiting
examples       such   as    erythrocytes,     leukocytes,    lymphocytes,   hybridomas,
Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, E. coli, and viruses. The particles can also
be comprised of organic and inorganic polymers, liposomes, latex, phospholipid
vesicles, or lipoproteins.
[0079]       The term "derivative" refers to a chemical compound or molecule made
from a parent compound by one or more chemical reactions.
                                             19

[0080]        The term "analogue" of a chemical compound refers to a chemical
compound that contains a chain of carbon atoms and the same particular functional
groups as a reference compound, but the carbon chain of the analogue is longer or
shorter than that of the reference compound.
[0081]        A "label," "detector molecule," "reporter" or "detectable marker" is any
molecule which produces, or can be induced to produce, a detectable signal. The
label can be conjugated to an analyte, immunogen, antibody, or to another molecule
such as a receptor or a molecule that can bind to a receptor such as a ligand,
particularly a hapten or antibody. A label can be attached directly or indirectly by
means of a linking or bridging moiety.        Non-limiting examples of labels include
radioactive isotopes (e.g.. "l), enzymes (e.g. p-galactosidase, peroxidase), enzyme
fragments,     enzyme     substrates,  enzyme     inhibitors,  coenzymes,    catalysts,
fluorophores (e.g., rhodamine, fluorescein isothiocyanate or FITC, or Dylight 649),
dyes, chemiluminescers and luminescers (e.g., dioxetanes, luciferin), or sensitizers.
[0082]        As used herein, a "spacer" refers to a portion of a chemical structure
which connects two or more substructures such as haptens, carriers, imnmunogens,
labels or binding partners through a functional linking group. These spacer groups
are composed of the atoms typically present and assembled in ways typically found
in organic compounds and so may be referred to as "organic spacing groups". The
chemical building blocks used to assemble the spacers will be described hereinafter
in this application. Among the preferred spacers are straight or branched, saturated
or unsaturated carbon chains. These carbon chains may also include one or more
heteroatoms within the chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more
hydrogens of any carbon atorn in the chain, or at the termnini of the chains. By
"heteroatoms" is meant atoms other than carbon which are chosen from the group
consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur, wherein the nitrogen,
phosphorous and sulfur atoms may exist in any oxidation state and may have carbon
or other heteroatoms bonded to them. The spacer may also include cyclic or
aromatic groups as part of the chain or as a substitution on one of the atoms in the
chain.
[0083]        The number of atoms in the spacing group is determined by counting the
atoms other than hydrogen. The number of atoms in a chain within a spacing group
is determined by counting the number of atoms other than hydrogen along the
                                           20

shortest route between the substructures being connected. Preferred chain lengths
are between I to 20 atoms.
[0084]        A "functional linking group" refers to a reactive group that is present on a
hapten and may be used to provide an available reactive site through which the
hapten portion may be coupled to another moiety through formation of a covalent
chemical bond to produce a conjugate of a hapten with another moiety (such as a
label or carrier). The hapten may be linked in this way to a moiety such as biotin to
form a competitive binding partner.
[0085]        Spacer groups may be used to link the hapten to the carrier. Spacers of
different lengths allow one to attach the hapten with differing distances from the
carrier for presentation to the immune system of the animal or human being
immunized for optimization of the antibody formation process. Attachment to different
positions in the hapten molecule allows the opportunity to present specific sites on
the hapten to the immune system to influence antibody recognition. The spacer may
contain hydrophilic solubilizing groups to make the hapten derivative more soluble in
aqueous media.       Examples of hydrophilic solubilizing groups include but are not
limited to polyoxyalkyloxy groups, for example, polyethylene glycol chains; hydroxyl,
carboxylate and sulfonate groups.
[0086]        The term "nucleophilic group" or "nucleophile" refers to a species that
donates an electron-pair to form a chemical bond in a reaction. The term
"electrophilic group" or "electrophile" refers to a species that accepts an electron-pair
from a nucleophile to form a chemical bond in a reaction.
[0087]        The term "substituted" refers to substitution of an atom or group of atoms
in place of a hydrogen atom on a carbon atom in any position on the parent
molecule. Non limiting examples of substituents include halogen atoms, amino,
hydroxy, carboxy, alkyl, aryl, heteroalkyl, heteroaryl, cyano, alkoxy, nitro, aldehyde
and ketone groups.
[0088]         The term "alkyl" refers to saturated or unsaturated linear and branched
chain radicals of up to 12 carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated, and is
specifically intended to include radicals having any degree or level of saturation. Alkyl
includes, but is not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec
butyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, isopentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, heptyl, octyl, 2,2,4-trimethylpentyl,
nonyl, decyl, undecyl and dodecyl.
                                             21

[0089]       The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially unsaturated
monocyclic or bicyclic hydrocarbon ring radical composed of from 3 to 10 carbon
atoms. Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include
cyclopropyl,   1,1-dimethyl cyclobutyl,     1,2,3-trimethylcyclopentyl, cyclohexyl    and
cyclohexenyl.
[0090]       The term "heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group that includes one or more
heteroatoms within the chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more
hydrogens of any carbon atom in the chain, or at termini of the chains.
[0091]       The term "aminoalkyl" refers to at least one primary or secondary amino
group bonded to any carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
[0092]       The term "alkoxy" refers to straight or branched chain radicals of up to 12
carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated, bonded to an oxygen atom.             Examples
include but are not limited to methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy and butoxy.
[0093]       The term "alkoxyalkyl" refers to at least one alkoxy group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
[0094]       The term "thioalkyl" refers to at least one sulfur group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain. The sulfur group may be at any oxidation state
and includes sulfoxides, sulfones and sulfates.
[0095]       The term "carboxylate group" includes carboxylic acids and alkyl,
cycloalkyl, aryl or aralkyl carboxylate esters.
[0096]       The term "alkylcarbonyl" refers to a group that has a carbonyl group
bonded to any carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
[0097]       The term "heteroaryl" refers to 5- to 7-membered mono- or 8- to 10
membered bicyclic aromatic ring radicals, any ring of which may consist of from one
to four heteroatoms selected from N, 0 or S where the nitrogen and sulfur atoms can
exist    in any    allowed    oxidation  state.     Examples     include  benzimidazolyl,
benzothiazolyl, benzothienyl, benzoxazolyl, furyl, imidazolyl, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, quinolinyl, thiazolyl and
thienyl.
[0098]       The term "aryl" refers to monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring radicals
containing from 6 to 12 carbons in the ring.        Alkyl substituents may optionally be
present on the ring. Examples include phenyl, biphenyl and napththalene.
[0099]       The term "aralkyl" refers to a CIe alkyl group containing an aryl
substituent. Examples include benzyl, phenylethyl or 2-naphthylmethyl.
                                             22

[00100]       The term "acyl" refers to the group -C(O)R, where R, is hydrogen, alkyl,
cycloalkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl. An "acylating agent" adds the
C(O)R - group to a molecule.
[00101]       The term "sulfonyl" refers to the group -S(0)2Rb, where R is hydrogen,
alkyl, cycloalkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl . A "sulfonylating
agent" adds the -S(0)2R. group to a molecule.
[00102]       Spacers bearing reactive functional linking groups for the attachment of
haptens to carrier moieties may be prepared by a wide variety of methods. The
spacer may be formed using a molecule that is differentially functionalized or
activated with groups at either end to allow selective sequential reaction with the
hapten and the carrier, but the same reactive moiety may also be used at both ends.
The groups selected for reaction with the hapten and the functional linking group to
be bound to the carrier are determined by the type of functionality on the hapten and
the carrier that the hapten is to be bonded with. Spacers and methods of attachment
to haptens and carriers include but are not limited to those described by Brinkley, M.,
A.,   Bioconjugate    Chem.     1992,   3:2-13,   Hermanson,    Greg    T., Bioconjugale
 Techniques,.Academic Press, London, Amsterdam, Burlington, MA, USA, 2008 and
 Thermo Scientific Pierce Crossinking Technical Handbook; available for download or
hard copy request from Thermo Scientific 3747 N Meridian Rd, Rockford, IL USA
61101, ph 800-874-3723 or at: http://www.piercenet.comi and references within.
Many differentially activated      molecules for formation       of spacer groups are
commercially available from vendors, for example Thermo Scientific.
[00103]       For haptens bearing an amino group, modes of attachment of the spacer
to the hapten include reaction of the amine on the hapten with a spacer building
block bearing an acyl halide or active ester. "Active esters" are defined as esters that
undergo reaction with a nucleophilic group, for example an amino group, under mild
conditions to form a stable linkage. A stable linkage is defined as one that remains
intact under conditions of further use, for example subsequent synthetic steps, use
as an immunogen, or in a biochemical assay.            A preferred example of a stable
linkage is an amide bond. Active esters and methods of formation are described by
Benoiton, N.L., in Houben-Weyl, Methods of Organic Chemistry, Thieme Stuttgart,
New York, vol E22 section 3.2:443 and Benoiton, N.L., Chemistry of Peptide
Synthesis, Taylor and Francis, NY, 2006.             Preferred active esters include p
nitrophenyl ester (PNP), N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS) and tetrafluorophenyl
                                             23

ester (TFP). Acyl halides may be prepared by many methods known to one skilled in
the art for example, reaction of the carboxylic acid with thionyl chloride or oxalyl
chloride, see: Fieser, L.F. and Fieser, M. Reagents for Organic Synthesis, John
Wiley and Sons, NY, 1967 and references within. These may be converted to other
active esters such as p-nitrophenyl esters (PNP) which may also be used in active bi
functional spacers as described by Wu et.al, Organic Letters, 2004 ,6 (24):4407. N
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) esters may be prepared by reaction of N,N-disuccinimidyl
carbonate (CAS 74124-79-1) with the carboxylic acid of a compound in the presence
of an organic base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylarnine in an aprotic
solvent under anhydrous conditions as described in Example 35 of W02012012595
or by using N-hydroxysuccinimide and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) or other
dehydrating agent, under anhydrous conditions. Tetrafluorophenyl esters (TFP) may
be      prepared        by     reaction   of    carboxylic    acids   with    2,3,5,6
tetrafluorophenyltrifluoroacetate in the presence of an organic base such as
triethylamine   or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent under anhydrous
conditions as reported by Wilbur, et.al, Bioconjugate Chern., 2004,15(1):203. One
skilled in the art will recognize that spacers shown in Table 1, among others, can be
obtained using known methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing
routine optimization of reaction conditions. These spacers allow attachment of the
hapten to a thiol group on a carrier.
[00104]       Table 1
   0       0             00
                                                S0         H     Br
                                                   5         0
                    -O 0            ON
   0                                  0      0
                              0              ONH
           0                H                   00
              0                        0
                                N                               O
         9,000NH
                  00
                                             24

     0                                       0
     N-C)N-1yy
               nNNNO                                         0
      O
   0                                                         0
     N-                      O6            nNarte1a
           0                                  0
   0
        '1          0
               N-C)              0         Reasonable values for myarid
                 H               N         nare betweenlIandl10
                                   0
[00105]       Direct coupling of the amine on the hapten and a carboxylic acid
functionality on the spacer building block in the presence of a coupling agent may
also be used as a mode of attachment. Preferred reagents are those typically used in
peptide synthesis. Peptide coupling reagents include but are not limited to 0
(Benzotriazol-1 -yl)-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium   tetrafluoroborate    (TBTU,    CAS
#125700-67-6),     see:  Pruhs, S.,    Org. Process. Res. Dev. 2006,        10:441; N
Hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT, CAS #2592-95-2) with a carbodiimide dehydrating
agent, for example N-N-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide        (DCC), diisopropylcarbodiimide
(DIC), or 1-ethyl-3(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimidehydrochloride       (EDC),   see:
Kbnig W., Geiger, R. Chem. Ber., 1970, 103 (3):788 ; 3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)
1,2,3-benzotrazin-4(3H)-one     (DEPBT,      CAS#165534-43-0),    see: Liu,   H. et.al.,
Chinese Chemical Letters, 2002,         13(7):601; Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic
chloride; (BOP-CI, CAS# 68641-49-6), see: Diago-Meseguer, J et.al. Synthesis,
1980, 7:547-51 and others described in detail by Benoiton in Chemistry of Peptide
Synthesis, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2005, Chapter 2, and the technical bulletin
provided by Advanced Automated Peptide Protein Technologies (aapptec), 6309
Shepardsville Rd., Louisville KY 40228, ph 888 692 9111; www.aapptec.com,           and
references within.     These methods create a stable amide linkage attaching the
hapten to the spacer.      Examples of spacers that can be obtained using known
methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing routine optimization of
reaction conditions employing the methods described and cited above are shown, but
                                            25

not limited to those in Table 2. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a
thiol group on a carrier.
[00106]       Table 2
    0                            0                            0
                                  N                            N
                              N>2N         CO 2 H              N      = CO2H
                                 0                            0
reasonable range for n is
between 1-10
[00107]       Spacers may also be constructed in a step-wise fashion by sequential
attachment of appropriate chemical groups to the hapten including the step of
forming the functional linking group that is capable of binding to the carrier. See
illustrative examples under General Reaction Schemes.
[00108]       Additionally, when the hapten has a nucleophilic group, for example a
thiol group, an amino group or a hydroxyl group which will become the point of
attachment of the spacer, the spacer may also be constructed by alkylation of the
thiol, amine or hydroxyl group. Any alkyl group that is appropriately substituted with
a moiety capable of undergoing a substitution reaction, for example, an alkyl halide,
or sulfonic acid ester such as p-Toluenesulfonate, may be used to attach the spacer.
Many examples of alkylation reactions are known to one skilled in the art and specific
examples may be found in the general chemical literature and optimized through
routine experimentation. A discussion of alkylation reactions with many references
can be found in Chapter 10 of March's Advanced Organic Chemistry, Smith, M.B.,
and March, J., John Wiley & sons, Inc. NY, 2001. Other linkages may also be
employed such as reaction of the nucleophilic moiety, for example an amine, on the
hapten with an isocyanate to form a urea or reaction with an isothiocyanate to form a
thiourea linkage, see: Li, Z., et.al., Phosphorus, Sulfur and Silicon and the Related
Elements, 2003, 178(2):293-297. Spacers may be attached to haptens bearing
hydroxyl groups via reaction with isocyanate groups to form carbamate or urethane
linkages. The spacer may be differentially activated with the isocyanate functional
group on one end and a functional linking group capable of reacting with the carrier,
                                           26

see: Annunziato, M.E., Patel, U.S., Ranade, M. and Palumbo, P.S., Bioconjugate
Chem., 1993, 4:212-218.
[00109]          For haptens bearing a carboxylic acid group, modes of attachment of a
spacer portion to the hapten include activation of the carboxylic acid group as an acyl
halide or active ester, examples of which are shown in Table 3, preparation of which
are described previously, followed by reaction with an amino (-NH 2-), hydrazino (-NH
NH2 -) , hydrazido (-C(O)-NH-NH 2 -) or hydroxyl group (-OH) on the spacer portion to
form an aide,        hydrazide, diacylhydrazine or ester linkage, or direct coupling of the
carboxylic acid group with an amino group on the spacer portion or directly on the
carrier with a peptide coupling reagent and/or carbodiimide dehydrating reagent,
described previously, examples of which are shown in Tables 4 and 5. Procedures
found in references cited previously for formation of activated esters and use of
peptide coupling agents may be employed for attachment of carboxylic acid-bearing
haptens to spacer building blocks and protein carriers with available amino groups
utilizing routine optimization of reaction conditions.
[00110]         Table 3
              0                 O                  0                                  NO2
  Na-03S       '-CO                                               2X     0
                 N-OC-           N-0C-       F        F    X=C, Br          o
               05                            F0            Acyl       PNP
                       6                     Fb       F
Sulfo NHS and NHS                           TFP            chloride
[00111]         Table 4
          N                   a                    a        a               -N        a
            N.                      OaOat                                        N BK
                                  N'''P'             N-P-N    O
          N                             EtN-I           O                          N(CH3)2
          OH                   N                                               0
HOBT                    DEPOT                    BOP-CI                            N(CH 3 )2
                                                                     TBTU
                                                27

[00112]        Table 5
     NC N                            NCN                                Nt
diisopropylcarbodlimide     Dicyclohexyicarbodiimide           NCN            i-ethyl-3(3
(DIC)                       (DCC)                         dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide.HCI
                                                          (EDC)
[00113]        Other electrophilic groups may be present on the hapten to attach the
spacer, for example, a sulfonyl halide
    0
or electrophilic phosphorous group, for example:
    0
    OR
See: Malachowski, William P., Coward, James K., Journal of Organic Chemistry
1994, 59 (25):7616
or:
 -P-OR
    ORC
R, is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, aralkyl.
See: Aliouane, L., et.al, Tetrahedron Letters, 2011, 52(28):8681.
[00114]        Haptens that bear aldehyde or ketone groups may be attached to
spacers using methods including but not limited to reaction with a hydrazide group
H2 N-NH-C(O)- on the spacer to form an acylhydrazone, see: Chamow, S.M., Kogan,
T.P., Peers, D.H., Hastings, R.C., Byrn, R.A. and Askenaszi, A., J. Biol. Chem., 1992,
267(22): 15916. Examples of bifunctional hydrazide spacer groups that allow
attachment to a thiol group on the carrier are shown in Table 6.
[00115]        Table 6
                              C)                      0
    O                     NHNH 2
                     r-I                               N-x       0
      NN
                                                      0          NHNH 2
                                                2
                                                28

[00116]       Haptens may also contain thiol groups which may be reacted with the
carrier provided that the carrier has been modified to provide a group that may react
with the thiol. Carrier groups may be modified by methods including but not limited to
attachment of a group containing a maleimide functional group by reaction of an
amino group on the carrier with N-Succinimidyl maleimidoacetate, (AMAS, CAS
#55750-61-3),     Succinimidyl    iodoacetate   (CAS#  151199-81-4),     or any of the
bifunctional spacer groups shown in Table 1 to introduce a group which may undergo
a reaction resulting in attachment of the hapten to the carrier.
[00117]      The functional linking group capable of forming a bond with the carrier
may be any group capable of forming a stable linkage and may be reactive to a
number of different groups on the carrier. The functional linking group may preferably
react with an amino group, a carboxylic acid group or a thiol group on the carrier, or
derivative thereof. Non-limiting examples of the functional linking group are a
carboxylic acid group, acyl halide, active ester (as defined previously), isocyanate,
isothiocyanate, alkyl halide, amino group, thiol group,      maleimide group, acrylate
group (H2C=CH-C(O)-) or vinyl sulfone group H2 C=CH-SO 2 -) See: Park, J.W., et.al.,
Bioconjugate Chem., 2012, 23(3): 350. The functional linking group may be present
as part of a differentially activated spacer building block that may be reacted
stepwise with the hapten and the resulting hapten derivative may then be reacted
with the carrier. Alternatively, the hapten may be derivatized with a spacer that bears
a precursor group that may be transformed into the functional linking group by a
subsequent reaction. When the functional linking group on the spacer is an amine or
a carboxylic acid group, the coupling reaction with the carboxylic acid group or amine
on the carrier may be carried out directly through the use of peptide coupling
reagents according to procedures in the references cited above for these reagents.
[00118]       Particular disulfide groups, for example, pyridyldisulfides, may be used
as the functional linking group on the spacer which may undergo exchange with a
thiol group on the carrier to from a mixed disulfide linkage, see: Ghetie, V., et al.,
Bioconjugate Chem., 1990, 1:24-31. These spacers may be attached by reaction of
the amine-bearing hapten with an active ester which is attached to a spacer bearing
the pyridyldisulfide group, examples of which include but are not limited to those
shown in Table 7.
                                             29

[00119]       Table 7
                                      ~S   N                        SS     N>
           0
                            NH                       N'
                 o        0
              q           0                       0
            N'.         NS          N    N           N
                                                     N            ,       3
[00120]       Most often the carrier is a protein and the c-amino groups of the lysine
residues may be used for attachment, either directly by reaction with an amine
reactive functional linking group or after derivitization with a thiol-containing group,
including N-Succinimidyl S-Acetylthioacetate, (SATA, CAS 76931-93-6), or an
analogue thereof, followed by cleavage of the actetate group with hydroxylamine to
expose the thiol group for reaction with the functional linking group on the hapten.
Thiol groups may also be introduced into the carrier by reduction of disulfide bonds
within protein carriers with mild reducing reagents including but not limited to 2
mercaptoethylamine, see: Bilah, M., et.al., Bioelectrochemistry, 2010, 80(1):49,
phosphine reagents, see: Kirley, T.L., Analytical Biochemistry, 1989, 180(2):231 or
dithioerythritol (DTT, CAS 3483-12-3) Cleland, W.,Biochemistr,; 1964, 3:480-482.
[00121]       GENERAL REACTION SCHEMES
[00122]       Compounds useful for producing antibodies according to the subject
invention can be synthesized in accordance with the general synthetic methods
described below. Compounds of Formula (1) can be prepared by methods known to
those who are skilled in the art. The following reaction schemes are only meant to
represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant to be a limit of the
invention.
                                            30

[00123]       Scheme 1
           /--N /-N                                          /            0
                    NN-H2                                N-)       N        OH
               li\                                         S
        H                                             H
[00124]       Compounds of Formula I where R2 is CH2 NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2 H may be
made     according    to  Scheme     1.        Reaction   of   (1-methyl-4-(2-methyl-10H
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methanamine,         prepared     as
described in Example 1, Step I, proceeds with a cyclic anhydride compound, such as
succinic anhydride or glutaric anhydride, in a solvent such as pyridine, at
temperatures ranging from room temperature to 60 IC, for about 48 hours. Those
skilled in the art will recognize that the same chemistry may be used to create
compounds of Formula I where R is CH2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2 H.
[00125]       Scheme 2
           N        N       0 -N                     NH
       N--          H             DIEA, diethyl cyanophosphonate
           /N>s/'2.                  TFA
        H
                                              0 0
                                  3,              n   DIEA
             -N        0  0
            N       N         N
       N-           H             N        fH
        N           H             N     r.     O
         H
                                                                 0    0
                                                                        N
                                                               H     r
                                                                               N       -,OH
[00126]       Compounds of Formula I where R2 is                               0     0
may be made according to Scheme 2.               Compounds of Formula I, where R2 is
                                              31

CH2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO2H, prepared as described in Scheme 1, are treated with N-t
butoxycarbonylpiperazine,      diethyl  cyanophosphonate,      and    a  base,     such  as
diisopropylethylamine.       The   reaction is carried    out in a solvent, such         as
dichloromethane, for about 2 hours at room temperature.               Deprotection of the
piperazinyl group is accomplished with trifluoroacetic anhydride as described in
Scheme 2, followed by reaction with an appropriate anhydride, such as succinic
anhydride or maleic anhydride, in the presence of a suitable base such as
diisopropylethylamine. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the same chemistry
may     be    used     to   create    compounds      of   Formula      I  where      R.   is
       0   0
     N          N
     H     rn        N          OH
[00127]       Scheme 3
                 r--N0                                                         /-N
                                                        So0
 HNN                           NH(CHmN-C
               N                    DCM, r.t. O                I
               H                                      0                      H
                                                                    0
[00128]       Compounds of Formula I where R1 is                            may be made
according to Scheme 3.       The maleimide may be introduced by any method known in
the art.   Maleimide functionalizing groups such as 2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-1-yl 2-(2,5
dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetate where m is 1, may be used in a solvent such
as DMF or CH2 CI2 , and a base, such as tributylamine or triethylamine. Alternatively,
the deprotected piperazinyl group described in Scheme 2 may be elaborated with a
maleimide functionality, as described in Scheme 3 to give compounds of Formula I
                     0    0
                   N         N                  0
                                  N
where R' is                                 0     . Those skilled in the art will recognize
                                               32

that the same chemistry may be used to create compounds of Formula I where R2 is
                                   0   0
                            -N   N                      0
        0H0                      H          N
                  O , or                           0
[00129]        Compounds in which the spacer and linking group are attached to the
unsubstituted secondary nitrogen in the diazepine ring of olanzapine may be
obtained by the reactions depicted in schemes 4 to 8. Acylation of the nitrogen is
described by Su, J. et.al, Bioorganic and Med. Chem. Letters, 2006, 16:4548. Use of
the mono ester mono acid chloride of succinic acid in the presence of a base, under
anhydrous conditions in an aprotic solvent, provides an intermediate, the ester
functionality of which may be hydrolyzed using standard conditions known to one
skilled in the art, for example, aqueous base, to provide a hapten that may be further
elaborated into an immunogen             by methods previously described herein and
illustrated by examples of this disclosure.
[00130]        Scheme 4
                /        -       C                    /2CH
             rN           '0     C00             /-N
            N-                                    N
          N  --                COCD
                               base                  \
         N'   S          2) hydrolysis         N
                                                    C0 2H
[00131]        Su, et.al., above, also report preparation of sulfonamides. Through use
of a functionalized sulfonylchloride in the presence of a base, under anhydrous
conditions in an aprotic solvent, as shown in Scheme 5, a carboxy hapten may be
prepared and transformed into an immunogen by methods previously described
herein and illustrated by examples of this disclosure.
                                              33

[00132]       Scheme 5
                                                       N/
           r-N N/
           N        HOOC.~SO2CI                      N
               Base                               N    S
        N     S
        H                                      025
                                                     0 2H
[00133]       Su, et.al., above, also teach methods for preparation of a hydrazine as
shown in Scheme 6, through diazotization of the ring nitrogen with a nitrite ester
followed by reduction with zinc in acetic acid. The resulting hydrazine may be further
functionalized in a number of ways as shown in Scheme 7. Reaction with a
bifunctional spacer building block, for example AMAS, in the presence of an amine
base, for example, tribuytlamine, in a solvent such as DMF as described elsewhere
herein, may provide a maleimide hapten that may be attached to a carrier through
reaction with a thiol group. Sulfonylation in the presence of base with a functionalized
sulfonyl chloride, for example, m-carboxybenzenesulfonylchloride may provide a
sulfonylhydrazide that bears a carboxy group for attachment to a carrier by methods
previously described        herein     and illustrated   by examples of this disclosure.
Additionally, the hydrazine may be reacted with a functionalized aldehyde or ketone,
for example, levulinic acid, as described in US4022780, with a catalytic amount of
acid under conditions where water generated by the condensation is removed, to
provide a hydrazone as shown in scheme 7. The hydrazone may be subsequently
reduced using sodium cyanoborohydride in the method of Su, J. et al., previously
referenced, to provide a saturated derivative.
[00134]       Scheme 6
           r-N                                          N
           N           1) isoarnyl nitrite           N
       N=             2) Zn/ acetic acid         N
        N     S'N
        H                                          NH2
                                                34

[00135]       Scheme 7
                                         N
                                       N
              AMAS                        S
              Bu3 NH2               SO2CI
              DMF                                                       N
               /                      |N-'                        N
              N                          C0  2H
            N                    base
       N-                                                      /N       S
         NS                                 acid
                                        nevulnic                  HN, 0
         NH 2                     -H20            /N
                                               \Nj                        C0 2H
                                            N=
                                             N-S
                                             N,        CO 2H
[00136]       Direct alkylation of the ring nitrogen as shown in Scheme 8, may also be
accomplished using the method described in US6034078 to append an alkyl group
directly to olanzapine. Though use of a functionalized alkyl halide, for example, 4
chloromethylbutyrate, one may obtain an intermediate which, through hydrolysis
using standard conditions known to one skilled in the art, may provide a hapten that
may be further elaborated into an immunogen by methods previously described
herein and illustrated by examples of this disclosure.
[00137]       Scheme 8
                                                          /
               N                                         N
                                                      N
               N 1)              ON.              N-H
       N              base
    /N-'-S            2) hydrolysis
        H                                                     OH
                                                            0
                                                  35

[00138]     Scheme 9
                                 0
                                    0
                               N         S     CH 3
                                            0
PROTEIN-NH 2
                     2.      H2N-OH
                                                   00
                  .SH       OLANZIPINE        H      'rn
 PROTEIN-N     __                    _    _     _     _0
                       0                0
                N         N       S    HN-PROTEIN
 OLANZIPINE     H       'M
                             0
                                                                               0
[00139]     Maleimide functionalized haptens wherein R' or R2 is          H        0
may be conjugated to proteins according to the method shown in Scheme 9.
Activation of protein lysine residues by acylation of the epsilon-nitrogen with N
succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate (SATA) , followed by subsequent hydrolysis of the
S-acetyl group with        hydroxylamine produces a nucleophilic sulfhydryl group.
Conjugation of the sulfhydryl activated protein with the maleimide derivatized hapten
(prepared as described in general scheme 3) proceeds via a Michael addition
reaction. Suitable proteins are known to those skilled in the art and include keyhole
limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and ovalbumin. The same methodology
may be used to conjugate proteins to maleimide functionalized haptens where R1 or
            0    O
                         N
                                   nNN
  2 is
R20
                                                36

[00140]      Scheme 10
                                      0
                                      N--OH       /      0   0
              NOLANZIPINE                              O             OLANZIPINE
 HO
                                 DCC/D)MF
                                    0   0
   PROTEIN-NH 2        PROTEIN,'           N    OLANZIPINE
                                 H         H
[00141]      Carboxylic     acid   functionalized   haptens,   wherein   R   or   R2   is
CH 2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCOiH, may be conjugated to proteins according to the method
shown in Scheme 10.        Reaction with N-hydroxysuccinimide and a suitable coupling
agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and a base, such as tributyl amine, in a
solvent such as DMF, at a temperature of about 20 1C, for about 18 hrs activates the
carboxylic acid with the hydroxypyrrolidine-2,5-dione leaving group.       The activated
linker and hapten may then be conjugated to a protein in a solvent, such as a pH 7.5
phosphate buffer, at about 20 C, for about 2.5 hours. Suitable proteins are known to
those skilled in the art and include keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin,
and ovalbumin.       The same methodology may be used to conjugate proteins to
carboxylic      acid     functionalized      haptens     where     R      or    R2     is
        0 0
     N         N
     H      m   O
         hN                    -OH
                       o6
ANTIBODIES
[00142]      The present invention is directed to an isolated antibody or a binding
fragment thereof, which binds to olanzapine and which: (i) is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii)
competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by the antibody of
(i). The term "antibody" refers to a specific protein capable of binding an antigen or
portion thereof (in accordance with this invention, capable of binding to an anti
psychotic drug or metabolite thereof). An antibody is produced in response to an
immunogen which may have been introduced into a host, e.g., an animal or a human,
                                             37

by injection. The generic term "antibody" includes polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
antibodies, and antibody fragments.
[00143]        "Antibody" or "antigen-binding antibody fragment" refers to an intact
antibody, or a fragment thereof, that competes with the intact antibody for binding.
Generally speaking, an antibody or antigen-binding antibody fragment, is said to
specifically bind an antigen when the dissociation constant is less than or equal to I
pM, preferably less than or equal to 100 nM and most preferably less than or equal to
10 nM. Binding can be measured by methods know to those skilled in the art, an
example being the use of a BlAcoreiTM instrument.
[00144]       Antibody fragments comprise a portion of an intact antibody, preferably
the antigen binding or variable region of the intact antibody.       Binding fragments
include Fab, Fab', F(ab')2. and Fv fragments; diabodies; linear antibodies; single
chain antibody molecules; and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody
fragments.      An antibody other than a "bispecific" or "bifunctional" antibody is
understood to have each of its binding sites identical.
[00145]       As used herein, "epitope" includes any protein determinant capable of
specific binding to an immunoglobulin or T-cell receptor.        Epitopic determinants
usually consist of chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino
acids or sugar side chains and usually have specific three dimensional structural
characteristics, as well as specific charge characteristics. Two antibodies are said to
"bind the same epitope" if one antibody is shown to compete with the second
antibody in a competitive binding assay, by any of the methods well known to those
skilled in the art (such as the BlAcoreTM method referred to above). In reference to a
hapten (such as olanzapine or other anti-psychotic drug), an antibody can be
generated against the non-antigenic hapten molecule by conjugating the hapten to
an immunogenic carrier.        An antibody is then generated which recognizes an
"epitope" defined by the hapten.
[00146]       "Isolated" when used in the context of an antibody means altered "by the
hand of man" from any natural state; i.e., that, if it occurs in nature, it has been
changed or removed from its original environment, or both. For example, a naturally
occurring antibody naturally present in a living animal in its natural state is not
"isolated", but the same antibody separated from the coexisting materials of its
natural state is "isolated", as the term is employed herein. Antibodies may occur in a
composition, such as an immunoassay reagent, which are not naturally occurring
                                             38

compositions, and therein remain isolated antibodies within the meaning of that term
as it is employed herein.
[00147]      "Cross-reactivity" refers to the reaction of an antibody with an antigen
that was not used to induce that antibody.
[00148]       Preferably, the antibody of the subject invention will bind to the drug and
any desired pharmacologically active metabolites.         By altering the location of the
attachment of the immunogenic carrier to the compounds of the invention, selectivity
and cross-reactivity with metabolites can be engineered into the antibodies.          For
olanzapine, cross-reactivity with the related drug clozapine may or may not be
desirable, and cross reactivity with olanzapine metabolites such as 10-N-gluronide or
4-N-desmethyl olanzapine may or may not be desirable.                Antibodies may be
generated that detect multiple ones of these drugs and/or metabolites, or antibodies
may be generated that detect each separately (thus defining the antibody "specific
binding" properties). An antibody specifically binds one or more compounds when its
binding of the one or more compounds is equimolar or substantially equimolar.
[00149]      Methods of producing such antibodies comprise inoculating a host with
the conjugate described herein. Suitable hosts include, but are not limited to, mice,
rats,   hamsters,   guinea   pigs,  rabbits,    chickens, donkeys,     horses, monkeys,
chimpanzees, orangutans, gorillas, humans, and any species capable of mounting a
mature immune response. The immunization procedures are well established in the
art and are set forth in numerous treatises and publications including "The
Immunoassay Handbook", 2nd Edition, edited by David Wild (Nature Publishing
Group, 2000) and the references cited therein.
[00150]       Preferably, an immunogen embodying features of the present invention
is administered to a host subject, e.g., an animal or human, in combination with an
adjuvant.    Suitable adjuvants include, but are not limited to, Freund's adjuvant,
powdered aluminurn hydroxide (alum), aluminum hydroxide together with Bordetella
pertussis, and monophosphoryl lipid A-synthetic trehalose dicorynomycolate (MPL
TDM).
[00151]      Typically, an immunogen or a combination of an immunogen and an
adjuvant is injected into a mammalian host by one or multiple subcutaneous or
intraperitoneal injections. Preferably, the immunization program is carried out over at
least one week, and more preferably, over two or more weeks. Polyclonal antibodies
                                             39

produced in this manner can be isolated and purified utilizing methods well know in
the art.
[00152]      Monoclonal     antibodies can    be produced       by the well-established
hybridoma methods of Kohler and Milstein, e.g., Nature 256:495-497 (1975).
Hybridoma methods typically involve immunizing a host or lymphocytes from a host,
harvesting the monoclonal antibody secreting or having the potential to secrete
lymphocytes, fusing the lymphocytes to immortalized cells, and selecting cells that
secrete the desired monoclonal antibody.
[00153]      A host can be immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are
capable of producing antibodies specific for an immunogen.             Alternatively, the
lymphocytes can be immunized in vitro. If human cells are desired, peripheral blood
lymphocytes can be used, although spleen cells or lymphocytes from other
mammalian sources are preferred.
[00154]      The lymphocytes can be fused with an immortalized cell line to form
hybridoma cells, a process which can be facilitated by the use of a fusing agent, e.g.,
polyethylene glycol. By way of illustration, mutant rodent, bovine, or human myelorna
cells immortalized by transformation can be used. Substantially pure populations of
hybridoma cells, as opposed to unfused immortalized cells, are preferred.           Thus,
following fusion, the cells can be grown in a suitable medium that inhibits the growh
or survival of unfused, immortalized cells, for example, by using mutant myeloma
cells that lack the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase
(HGPRT).     In such an instance, hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine can be
added to the medium (HAT medium) to prevent the growth of HGPRT-deficient cells
while permitting hybridomnas to grow.
[00155]      Preferably, immortalized cells fuse efficiently, can be isolated from mixed
populations by selection in a medium such as HAT, and support stable and high-level
expression of antibody following fusion.     Preferred immortalized cell lines include
myeloma cell lines available from the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas,
VA.
[00156]      Because hybridoma cells typically secrete antibody extracellularly, the
culture media can be assayed for the presence of monoclonal antibodies specific for
the anti-psychotic drug. Immunoprecipitation of in vitro binding assays, for example,
radiioimmunoassay (RIA) or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), can be
used to measure the binding specificity of monoclonal antibodies.
                                           40

[00157]       Monoclonal antibody-secreting hybridoma cells can be isolated as single
clones by limiting dilution procedures and sub-cultured.         Suitable culture media
include, but are not limited to, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium, RPMI-1640, and
polypeptide-free, polypeptide-reduced, or serum-free media, e.g., Ultra DOMA PF or
HL-1. available from Biowhittaker, Walkersville, MD.        Alternatively, the hybridoma
cells can be grown in vivo as ascites.
[00158]       Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and/or purified from a culture
medium or ascites fluid by conventional immunoglobulin (Ig) purification procedures
including,   but    not  limited   to,  polypeptide    A-SEPHAROSE,        hydroxylapatite
chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and
affinity chromatography.
[00159]       Monoclonal antibodies can also be produced by recombinant methods
such as are described in U.S. Patent No. 4,166,452.           DNA encoding monoclonal
antibodies can be isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures, e.g., using
oligonucleotide probes that specifically bind to murine heavy and light antibody chain
genes, preferably to probe DNA isolated from monoclonal antibody hybridoma cells
lines secreting antibodies specific for anti-psychotic drugs.
[00160]       Antibody fragments which contain specific binding sites for the anti
psychotic drug may also be generated. Such fragments include, but are not limited
to, the F(ab') 2 fragments which can be produced by pepsin digestion of the antibody
molecule and the Fab fragments which can be generated by reducing the disulfide
bridges of the F(ab')2 fragments.       Alternatively, Fab expression libraries may be
constructed to allow rapid and easy identification of monoclonal Fab fragments with
the desired specificity (Huse et al., Science 256:1270-1281 (1989)).         Fab, Fv and
ScFv antibody fragments can all be expressed in and secreted from Escherichiacoli,
allowing for the production of large amounts of these fragments. Alternatively, Fab'
SH fragments can be directly recovered from E. coli and chemically coupled to form
F(ab') 2 fragments (Carter et al.,       BioTechnology 10:163-167        (1992)).   Other
techniques for the production of antibody fragments are known to those skilled in the
art. Single chain Fv fragments (scFv) are also envisioned (see U.S. Patent Nos.
5,761,894 and 5,587,458).        Fv and sFv fragments are the only species with intact
combining sites that are devoid of constant regions; thus, they are likely to show
reduced non-specific binding. The antibody fragment may also be a "linear antibody"
                                             41

e.g., as described in U.S. Patent No. 5,642,870, for example. Such linear antibody
fragments may be monospecific or bispecific.
ASSAY KITS AND DEVICES
[00161]      An assay kit (also referred to as a reagent kit) can also be provided
comprising an antibody as described above.           A representative reagent kit may
comprise an antibody that binds to the anti-psychotic drug, olanzapine, a complex
comprising an analog of an anti-psychotic drug or a derivative thereof coupled to a
labeling moiety, and may optionally also comprise one or more calibrators comprising
a known amount of an anti-psychotic drug or a related standard.
[00162]      The phrase "assay kit" refers to an assembly of materials and reagents
that is used in performing an assay. The reagents can be provided in packaged
combination in the same or in separate containers, depending on their cross
reactivities and stabilities, and in liquid or in lyophilized form.  The amounts and
proportions of reagents provided in the kit can be selected so as to provide optimum
results for a particular application. An assay kit embodying features of the present
invention comprises antibodies which bind olanzapine. The kit may further comprise
competitive binding partners of olanzapine and calibration and control materials.
[00163]      The phrase "calibration and control material" refers to any standard or
reference material containing a known amount of an analyte. A sample suspected of
containing an analyte and the corresponding calibration material are assayed under
similar conditions.   The concentration of analyte is calculated by comparing the
results obtained for the unknown specimen with the results obtained for the standard.
This is commonly done by constructing a calibration curve.
[00164]      Antibodies embodying features of the present invention can be included
in a kit, container, pack, or dispenser together with instructions for their utilization.
When the antibodies are supplied in a kit, the different components of the
immunoassay may be packaged in separate containers and admixed prior to use.
Such packaging of the components separately may permit long-term storage without
substantially diminishing the functioning of the active components.         Furthermore,
reagents can be packaged under inert environments, e.g., under a positive pressure
of nitrogen gas, argon gas, or the like, which is especially preferred for reagents that
are sensitive to air and/or moisture.
                                            42

[00165]       Reagents included in kits embodying features of the present invention
can be supplied in all manner of containers such that the activities of the different
components are substantially preserved while the components themselves are not
substantially adsorbed or altered by the materials of the container.             Suitable
containers include, but are not limited to, ampules, bottles, test tubes, vials, flasks,
syringes, envelopes, e.g., foil-lined, and the like. The containers may be comprised
of any suitable material including, but not limited to, glass, organic polymers, e.g.,
polycarbonate, polystyrene, polyethylene, etc., ceramic, metal, e.g., aluminum, metal
alloys, e.g., steel, cork, and the like. In addition, the containers may comprise one or
more sterile access ports, e.g., for access via a needle, such as may be provided by
a septum. Preferred materials for septa include rubber and polytetrafluoroethylene of
the type sold under the trade name TEFLON by DuPont (Wilmington, DE).                   In
addition, the containers may comprise two or more compartments separated by
partitions or membranes that can be removed to allow mixing of the components.
[00166]       Reagent kits embodying features of the present invention may also be
supplied with instructional materials.      Instructions may be printed, e.g., on paper
and/or supplied in an electronically-readable medium. Alternatively, instructions may
be provided by directing a user to an internet website, e.g., specified by the
manufacturer or distributor of the kit and/or via electronic mail.
[00167]       The antibody may also be provided as part of an assay device. Such
assay devices include lateral flow assay devices.          A common type of disposable
lateral flow assay device includes a zone or area for receiving the liquid sample, a
conjugate zone, and a reaction zone. These assay devices are commonly known as
lateral flow test strips. They employ a porous material, e.g., nitrocellulose, defining a
path for fluid flow capable of supporting capillary flow.        Examples include those
shown in US Patent Nos. 5,559,041, 5,714,389, 5,120,643, and 6,228,660 all of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00168]       Another type of assay device is a non-porous assay device having
projections to induce capillary flow.      Examples of such assay devices include the
open lateral flow device as disclosed in PCT International Publication Nos. WO
2003/103835, WO 20051089082, WO 2005/118139, and WO 2006/137785, all of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00169]       In a non-porous assay device, the assay device generally has at least
one sample addition zone, at least one conjugate zone, at least one reaction zone,
                                              43

and at least one wicking zone. The zones form a flow path by which sample flows
from the sample addition zone to the wicking zone.            Also included are capture
elements, such as antibodies, in the reaction zone, capable of binding to the analyte,
optionally deposited on the device (such as by coating); and a labeled conjugate
material also capable of participating in reactions that will enable determination of the
concentration of the analyte, deposited on the device in the conjugate zone, wherein
the labeled conjugate material carries a label for detection in the reaction zone. The
conjugate material is dissolved as the sample flows through the conjugate zone
forming a conjugate plume of dissolved labeled conjugate material and sample that
flows downstream to the reaction zone.          As the conjugate plume flows into the
reaction zone, the conjugated material will be captured by the capture elements such
as via a complex of conjugated material and analyte (as in a "sandwich" assay) or
directly (as in a "competitive" assay). Unbound dissolved conjugate material will be
swept past the reaction zone into the at least one wicking zone. Such devices can
include projections or micropillars in the flow path.
[00170]       An instrument such as that disclosed in US Patent Publication Nos.
US20060289787A1       and US 20070231883A1, and US Patent Nos. 7,416,700 and
6,139,800, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties, is able
to detect the bound conjugated material in the reaction zone.            Common labels
include fluorescent dyes that can be detected by instruments which excite the
fluorescent dyes and incorporate a detector capable of detecting the fluorescent
dyes.
IMMUNOASSAYS
[00171]       The antibodies thus produced can be used in immunoassays to
recognize/bind to the anti-psychotic drug, thereby detecting the presence and/or
amount of the drug in a patient sample. Preferably, the assay format is a competitive
immunoassay format. Such an assay format and other assays are described, among
other places, in Hampton et al. (Serological Methods, A Laboratory Manual, APS
Press, St. Paul, MN 1990) and Maddox et al. (J. Exp. Med. 158:12111, 1983).
[00172]       The term "analyte" refers to any substance or group of substances, the
presence or amount of which is to be determined.          Representative anti-psychotic
drug analytes include, but are not limited to, risperidone, paliperidone, olanzapine,
aripiprazole, and quetiapine.
                                             44

[00173]       The term "competitive binding partner" refers to a substance or group of
substances, such as may be employed in a competitive immunoassay, which behave
similarly to an analyte with respect to binding affinity to an antibody. Representative
competitive binding partners include, but are not limited to, anti-psychotic drug
derivatives and the like.
[00174]       The term "detecting" when used with an analyte refers to any
quantitative, semi-quantitative, or qualitative method as well as to all other methods
for determining an analyte in general, and an anti-psychotic drug in particular. For
example, a method that merely detects the presence or absence of an anti-psychotic
drug in a sample lies within the scope of the present invention, as do methods that
provide data as to the amount or concentration of the anti-psychotic drug in the
sample. The terms "detecting", "determining", "identifying", and the like are used
synonymously herein, and all lie within the scope of the present invention.
[00175]       A preferred embodiment of the subject invention is a competitive
immunoassay wherein antibodies which bind the anti-psychotic drug, or the drug or
competitive binding partner thereof, are attached to a solid support (such as the
reaction zone in a lateral flow assay device) and labeled drug or competitive binding
partner thereof, or labeled antibody, respectively, and a sample derived from the host
are passed over the solid support and the amount of label detected attached to the
solid support can be correlated to a quantity of drug in the sample.
[00176]       Any sample that is suspected of containing an analyte, e.g., an anti
psychotic drug, can be analyzed in accordance with the methods of the presently
preferred embodiments.       The sample can be pretreated if desired and can be
prepared in any convenient medium that does not interfere with the assay.
Preferably, the sample comprises an aqueous medium such as a body fluid from a
host, most preferably plasma or serum.
[00177]       It is to be understood that all manner of immunoassays employing
antibodies are contemplated for use in accordance with the presently preferred
embodiments, including assays in which antibodies are bound to solid phases and
assays in which antibodies are in liquid media. Methods of immunoassays that can
be used to detect analytes using antibodies embodying features of the present
invention include, but are not limited to, competitive (reagent limited) assays wherein
labeled analyte (analyte analog) and analyte in a sample compete for antibodies and
single-site immunometric assays wherein the antibody is labeled; and the like.
                                            45

[00178]      The present invention is further described by the following examples.
The examples are provided solely to illustrate the invention by reference to specific
embodiments.      These exemplifications, while illustrating certain specific aspects of
the invention, do not portray the limitations or circumscribe the scope of the disclosed
invention.
[00179]      All examples were carried out using standard techniques, which are well
known and routine to those of skill in the art, except where otherwise described in
detail.  Routine molecular biology techniques of the following examples can be
carried out as described in standard laboratory manuals, such as Sambrook et al.,
Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring Habor Laboratory
Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1989).
[00180]      Copending applications entitled "Haptens of Aripiprazole" (Attorney
Docket No. PRD3265USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,450, filed
August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Olanzapine" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3266USPSP,
US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,454, filed August 21, 2012), "Haptens of
Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3267USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl.
No. 61/691,459, filed August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Quetiapine" (Attorney Docket
No. PRD3268USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,462, filed August 21,
2012),   "Haptens    of   Risperidone     and   Paliperidone"   (Attorney   Docket   No.
PRD3269USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,469, filed August 21,
2012), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5128USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,544, filed August 21,
2012), "Antibodies to Paliperidone Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5126USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,634, filed August 21,
2012), "Antibodies to Quetiapine Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5134USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,598, filed August 21,
2012), "Antibodies to Risperidone Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS513OUSPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,615, filed August 21,
2012), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole and          Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket        No.
CDS5129USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,522, filed August 21,
2012),   "Antibodies to    Olanzapine and       Use Thereof" (Attorney      Docket   No.
CDS5133USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,645, filed August 21,
2012), "Antibodies to Paliperidone and           Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket       No.
CDS5127USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,692, filed August 21,
                                            46

2012),    "Antibodies to Quetiapine and        Use   Thereof"  (Attorney Docket    No.
CDS5135USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,659, filed August 21,
2012), "Antibodies to Risperidone and          Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket       No.
CDS5131USPSP,        US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,675, filed August 21,
2012), and "Antibodies to Risperidone and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5145USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/790,880, filed March 15, 2013)
are all incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                       EXAMPLE 1
(1-Methyl-4-(2-rmethyl-10H-benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2
yl)niethanamine
              N     NH2
            N
           ANs
         H
[00181]        Step A
tert-Butyl 3-cyanopiperazine-1-carboxylate
N,
     HN
[00182]       To a solution of tert-butyl 3-cyanopiperazine-1-carboxylate (21.1 g, 0.1
mol) and aqueous formaldehyde (24 g, 37% in water) in THF was added sodium
cyanoborohydride (31.5 g, 0.5 mol) in small portions. The reaction mixture was aged
at ambient temperature overnight then diluted with water and extracted with ethyl
acetate. The organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride,
dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated under vacuum. The
crude product was purified by column chromatography to provide the title compound.
1H   NMR (400MHz, MeOD) 6 4.23-4.18 (n, 1H), 4.01-3.97 (br, 1H), 3.92-3.90 (br,
1H), 2.92-2.89 (br, 1H), 2.88-2.87 (br, 1H), 2.65-2.62 (m, 1H), 2.378 (s, 3H), 2.36
2.33 (m, 1H), 1.47 (s, 9H).
[00183]       Step B
tert-Butyl 3-(aminoniethyl)-4-methylpiperazine-1-carboxylate
                                            47

                0
 H2 N         N    O
         N'
[00184]       To a solution of tert-butyl 3-cyano-4-methylpiperazine-1-carboxylate,
prepared as described in Step A, (10.5 g, 47 mmol) in methanol (200 mL) was added
metallic nickel (10 g) and triethylamine (5 mL). The mixture was stirred at ambient
temperature     overnight under atmosphere        of  hydrogen   gas   (50   psi). Upon
consumption of tert-butyl 3-cyano-4-methylpiperazine-1-carboxylate, the mixture was
filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to provide crude tert-butyl 3
(aminomethyl)-4-methylpiperazine-1-carboxylate       used in the next step without
purification.
[00185]        Step C
tert-Butyl 3-((1,3-dioxoisoindolin-2-yl)methyl)-4-methylpiperazine-1-carboxylate
                   0
                N
            No ---
[00186]       To    a    mixture of   tert-butyl 3-(aminomethyl)-4-methylpiperazine-1
carboxylate, prepared as described in the previous step, (5.5 g, crude) and sodium
bicarbonate (2.52 g, 30 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (100 mL) was added a solution of
2H-isoindole-2-carboxylic acid, 1,3-dihydro-1,3-dioxo-, ethyl ester (6.59 g, 30 mmol)
in tetrahydrofuran (20 mL) at ambient temperature. After stirring for 30 minutes, the
suspension was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated to give crude product
which was purified by column chromatography to provide the title compound.            1H
NMR (400MHz, MeOD) 6 7.87-7.85 (m, 2H), 7.87-7.80 (m, 2H), 3.94-3.90 (m, 1H),
3.75-3.65 (br. 3H), 3.43-3.41 (br, IH), 3.30-3.28 (i,   2H), 3.49 (s, 3H), 2.39-2.38 (ml,
IH), 2.30-2.28 (m, IH), 1.36 (s, 9H).
[00187]       Step D
2-((1 -Methylpiperazin-2-yl)methyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione
                                             48

         0
          N      N
             (N
             HND
[00188]       A    solution   of    tert-butyl    3-((1,3-dioxoisoindolin-2-yl)methyl)-4
methylpiperazine-1-carboxylate, prepared as described in the previous step, (8.6 g)
in methanolic hydrogen chloride (20 mL) was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour.
The solvent was removed         under vacuum      to provide 2-((1-methylpiperazin-2
yl)methyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione which was used in the next step without further
purification. 1H NMR (400MHz, MeOD) 6 7.88-7.86 (m, 2H), 7.82-7.80 (m, 2H), 3.99
3.95 (m, 1H), 3.77-3.73 (m, 1H), 3.24-3.23 (m, 1H), 3.29-3.23 (m, 1H), 3.17-3.14 (m,
1H), 3.04-2.84 (m, 2H), 2.81-2.78 (m, IH), 2.55 (s, 3H), 2.46-2.40 (m, IH).
[00189]       Step E
5-Methyl-2-((2-nitrophenyl)amino)thiophene-3-ca rbonitrile
         0
          NH
[00190]       To a solution of 2-amino-5-methylthiophene-3-carbonitrile (13.8 g, 100
mrnol) and 1-fluoro-2-nitrobenzene (16.92 g, 120 mmol) in dimethylsulfoxide was
added potassium hydroxide (11.2 g, 200 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at
room temperature overnight. The mixture was diluted with water, and the resulting
suspension was filtered. The filtered cake was dried to give 5-nethyl-2-((2
nitrophenyl)amino)thiophene-3-carbonitrile     as a red solid used without further
purification. "H NMR: (400 MHz, CDCla) 6 9.69 (s, 1H), 8.27-8.25 (m, 1H), 7.56-7.52
(m, 1H), 7.23-7.20 (m, 1H), 7.0-6.96 (m, 1H), 6.80 (s, 1H), 2.49(s, 3H).
[00191]       Step F
2-((2-Aiminophenyl)amino)-5-methylthiophene-3-carbonitrile
     HN     NH2
                                           49

[00192]        To     a   solution   of    5-methyl-2-((2-n itrophenyl)amino)thiophene-3
carbonitrile, prepared as described in the previous step, (43.3 g, 0.157 mol) in ethyl
acetate (500 mL) was added 10% palladium on carbon (8 g). The black mixture was
stirred at room temperature overnight under an atmosphere of hydrogen gas. When
LCMS showed that most of 5-methyl-2-((2-nitrophenyl)amino)thiophene-3-carbonitrile
was consumed completely, the mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated
to    provide    2-((2-aminophenyl)amino)-5-methylthiophene-3-carbonitrile.      IH    NMR
(400MHz, CDCl) 6 7.29-7.21 (m, 1H), 7.11-7.10 (m, 1H), 6.86-6.79 (m, 2H), 6.48
6.47 (m, 1H) , 6.42 (brs. 1H), 3.75-3.70 (br, 2H), 2.28 (s, 3H).
[00193]        Step G
2-Methyl-1 OH-benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-amine
             NMH
               2
         N=S
          /NJs      '
[00194]        A mixture of 2-((2-aninophenyl)amino)-5-methylth iophene-3-carbonitrile,
prepared as described in the previous step, (22.9 g, 100 nmol) in isopropanol (150
mL) and aqueous hydrochloric acid (50 mL, 18%) was heated at 80 IC for 3 hrs. The
resulting suspension was filtered and the filter cake was dried to give the title
compound as a red solid. 1 H NMR (400 MHz CDCl3 ) 6 7.14-7.12 (t, IH), 7.7.12-7.10
(t, 1 H), 6.95-6.93 (d, J = 8 MHz, 1 H), 6.81-6.79 (d, J = 8 MHz, 1 H), 6.70 (s, 1 H) , 2.30
(s, 3H).
[00195]        Step H
2-((1 -Methyl-4-(2-methyl-10 H-benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2
yl)methyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione
                          0
             N        N
       /  <
          H
[00196]        A   solution  of 2-((1 -methylpiperazin-2-yl)methyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione,
prepared      as   described    in step   D, (100    mg,    0.38   mmol),   2-methyl-10H
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-amine,      prepared as described in step G, (150
mg, 0.52 nmol) and diisopropylethylanine (0.49 g, 3.8 minol) in diinethylsulfoxide
                                             50

(0.5 mL) was stirred at 170 0C for 2 hrs. The reaction was diluted with water and
extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was concentrated and the residue
purified by column to give 15 mg of 2-((1-methyl-4-(2-methyl-10H-benzo[b]thieno[2,3
e][1 ,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methyl)isoindoline-1, 3-dione. IH NMR (400 MHz,
CDCla) 6 7.76-7.73 (m, 1H), 7.45-7.35 (m, 3H), 7.18-7.17 (m, IH), 6.98-6.95 (m, 2H),
6.75-6.73 (m. IH) , 6.46 (s, IH), 4.28-4.25 (n, IH), 3.96-6.92 (n, 1H) , 3.71-3.64 (n,
3H)   , 3.47-3.41 (m, 1H) , 3.29-3.28 (n, 1H), 3.12-3.09 (m, 1H), 2.87-2.86 (i, 1H),
2.67-2.53 (m, 3H), 2.28 (s, 3H).
[00197]        Step I
(1-Methyl-4-(2-methyl-10H-benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2
yl)methanamine
                N    NH2
            N
            ANs
         H
[00198]         A     solution   of   2-((1 -methyl-4-(2-rnethyl-10 H-benzo[b]thieno[2,3
e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione,       prepared       as
described in the previous step, (1.0 g) in ethanolic methylamine (20 mL) was stirred
at ambient temperature overnight. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the
residue purified by HPLC to give the hydrochloride salt of (1-methyl-4-(2-methyl-10H
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methanamine as a red solid. IH
NMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 6 7.46-7.44 (n, IH), 7.31-7.48 (n, IH), 7.19-7.15 (n, IH),
6.97-6.95 (m, 1H), 6.74 (s, 1H), 4.80-4.71 (br, IH), 4.28-4.20 (br, 2H), 4.07-4.04 (br,
2H) , 3.82-3.70 (br, 3H), 3.53-3.48 (i, 1H), 3.18 (s, 3H), 2.42(m, 3H); ESI-MS (M+1):
342 calc. for C18H23N5S Exact Mass: 341.17.
                                             51

                                       EXAMPLE 2
2-(2,5-Dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1 -yl)-N-((i-rnethyl-4-(2-methyl-1 OH
benzo[b]th ieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methyl)aceta mide
              -N
                 N          00
        H
[00199]        To     a    solution of    (1-methyl-4-(2-rmethyl-10 H-benzo[b]thieno[2,3
e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methanamine, prepared as described in Example
1, (10.3 mg, 30.2 poles) in 570 pL of DMF and 13.3 pL of tributylamine was added
760 pL of a DMF solution of N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester (AMAS, 10
mg/rnL, 7.6 mg, 30.2 poless. The resulting solution was allowed to stir for 18 hours
at 20 0C,   then used as such in conjugation reactions with thiol-activated protein.
                                       EXAMPLE 3
(2-Methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-10H-benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepi n-7
yl)methanarnine
                         N
                     N)
                 N
 H2 N    \/        N   3
                   H
[00200]         Step A
2-(4-Cyano-2-nitro-phenylamino)-5-methyl-thiophene-3-carbonitrile
               0
 N
[00201]        To a suspension of sodium hydride (60%, 0.58 g) in THF (2 mL), was
added 4-fluoro-3-nitro-benzonitrile     (1.33   g, 8.0    mrnmol) and 2-amino-5-methyl
thiophene-3-carbonitrile (1.10 g, 8.0 mmol) in THF (10 mL), dropwise. The mixture
                                             52

was stirred at room temperature overnight.        Two more batches of sodium hydride
(60%, 0.50 g and 0.4 g) were added over the next 6 hours. After stirring for 3 days,
the mixture was poured into ice-water (20 mL) and acidified to pH 3 with 6N
hydrochloric acid (7 mL). The precipitate was filtered and washed with water. The
solid was extracted with dichloromethane (35 mL). The solution was concentrated to
a solid, and used in the next step without additional purification.     LC-MS: m/z 285
(M+1), 307 (M+23). 'H NMR (CDCl3, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 9.76 (s, 1H), 8.59 (s, 1H),
7.70 (d, 1H), 7.14 (d, IH) , 6.87 (s, 1H), 2.52 (s, 1H).
[00202]       Step B
10-Amino-2-methyl-4H-3-thia-4,9-diaza-benzo[flazulene-7-carbon itrile hydrochloride
                  NH2
             N
               N     S
               H
[00203]       To     a   suspension     of    2-(4-Cyano-2-nitro-phenylamino)-5-methyl
thiophene-3-carbonitrile, prepared as described in the previous step, (0.52 g) in
ethanol (5 mL), was added tine chloride (1.36 g, 7.2 mmol) in 6 N HCl. The mixture
was heated in an 85 "C oil bath for 3 hours and then cooled in ice bath. The solid
was filtered, washed with water, and dried to brown give the title compound as a
brown solid containing inorganic salt, which was used in the next step without
additional purification. LC-MS: m/z 255 (M+1 of free base). 1 H NMR (DMSO-d 6 , 400
MHz): 6 (ppm) 11.18 (br, 1H), 10.09 (s, 1H), 9.35 (br, 1H), 8.94 (br, 1H)     , 7.54 (d,
1H), 7.27 (s, 1H), 6.95 (d, IH), 2.26 (s, 3H).
[00204]       Step C
2-Methyl-I 0-(4-methyl-piperazin-1 -yl)-4H-3-thia-4,9-diaza-benzo[flazulene-7
carbonitrile
                    /-N
                  N
    NN
               H
[00205]       To a solution of 10-amino-2-methyl-4H-3-thia-4,9-diaza-benzo[f]azulene
7-carbonitrile hydrochloride, prepared as described in the previous step, (0.6 g) in
DMSO (6 mL) and toluene (6 mL), was added 1-methylpiperazine (4 mL). The
                                            53

mixture was heated in a 130 'C oil bath for 17 hours. The solution was concentrated,
diluted with ethyl acetate (50 mL), washed with water (20 mL) arid brine (20 mL), and
then concentrated. The solid was dissolved in dichloromethane (10 mL) and treated
with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The title compound was collected as a
light yellow precipitate, washed with water and dichloromethane, dried, and used in
the next step without additional purification. LC-MS: m/z 338 (M+I). 'H NMR
(CD 30D, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 7.19-7.15 (m, 2H), 6.74 (d, 1H), 6.37 (s, 1H), 3.51 (m,
4H), 2.53 (m, 4H), 2.34 (s, 3H), 2.32 (s, 3H).
[00206]       Step D
(2-Methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-10H-benzo[b]th ieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7
yl)niethanamine
                      N
                   NJ
                 N
 H2N
                H
[00207]       To a solution of 2-Methyl-10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-4H-3-thia-4,9
diaza-benzo[flazulene-7-carbonitrile, prepared as described in the previous step,
(0.25 g) in methanol (90 mL) was added concentrated HCI (0.4 mL) and Pd black (57
mg). Hydrogenation was carried out at 50 psi for 1h. More Pd black (147 ig) was
added. The mixture was shaken at 50 psi for 22 h. The catalyst was filtered and
washed with methanol. The filtrate was concentrated, treated with saturated sodium
bicarbonate solution (5 mL), and concentrated to dryness. The product was purified
by silica column. LC-MS: m/z 342 (M+1). 'H NMR (CD3 0D, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 6.89
6.85 (m, 2H), 6.64 (d, 1H), 6.34 (d, 1H), 3.66 (s, 2H), 3.46 (m, 4H), 2.54 (m, 4H), 2.34
(s, 3H), 2.30 (d, 3H).
                                           54

                                       EXAMPLE 4
2-(2,5-Dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((2-methyl-4-(4-rnethylpiperazin-1-yl)-1OH
benzo[b]th ieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methyl)a cetamide
                            rN
                        N   N
       0
    /N      H/     <N       /
       Y OS              H
  0
[00208]      To      a     solution      of    (2-methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-1OH
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methanamine,       prepared   as   described   in
Example 3, (3.5 mg, 10.2 poles) in 185 pL of DMF and 4.5 pL of tributylamine was
added 260 pL of a DMF solution of N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester
(AMAS, 10 mg/mL, 2.6 mg, 10.2 poless.          The resulting solution was allowed to stir
for 90 minutes at 20 IC, then used as such in conjugation reaction with thiol-activated
protein.
                                       EXAMPLE 5
6-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((2-methyl-4-(4-miethylpiperazin-1-yl)-1OH
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methyl)hexana mide
                                       CN
                                       N
            O/    0
                    -N-NH      'N   --  S
                                   H
  0
[00209]      To      a     solution      of    (2-methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-10H
benzo[b]th ieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methanamnine,     prepared   as   described   in
Example 3, (59 mg, 0.17 mmol) in dichloromethane (4 mL) was added triethylamine
(0.048 mL, 0.34 mmol) and 6-maleimidohexanoic N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (53
mg, 0.17 mmol) in dichloromethane (1 mL). The solution was stirred at room
temperature for 40 min, then loaded onto a silica column, eluted with 3-5%
methanol/dichloromethane       containing triethylamine.     The title compound was
obtained as a yellow solid. LC-MS: m/z 535 (M+1).
                                            55

                                      EXAMPLE 6
N-[2-Methyl-10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-4H-3-thia-4,9-diaza-benzo[flazulen-7
ylmethyl[-succinamic acid
                               -N
                              N
HO-.          N
              HO      /    N
                           NS
     0
[00210]      Step A
Succinic acid 2,5-dioxo-pyrrolidin-1-y ester methyl ester
             0
             0'0
     O              0
[00211]      To a solution of 1-hydroxy-pyrrolidine-2,5-dione (1.23 mL, 10 mmol) in
ethyl acetate (50 mL) was added 3-chlorocarbonyl-propionic acid methyl ester (1.15
g, 10 mmol).    The mixture was cooled in an ice bath.          Triethylamine (1.4 mL, 10
mnmol) was added dropwise. The resulting suspension was stirred for 10 min in an
ice bath and for 5 min without ice bath. The white solid was removed by filtration and
washed with ethyl acetate (3 x 3 mL). The filtrate was concentrated to a white solid
(2.32 g).
[00212]      Step B
N-[2-Methyl- 10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1 -yl)-4 H-3-th ia-4,9-d iaza-benzo[fiazulen-7
ylmethyl]-succinanic acid methyl ester
                              p-N
                              N
          0              N-=
              N           N
                 HH
     0
[00213]      To     a     solution     of      (2-methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)-1 0H
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methanamine,        prepared     as  described   in
Example 3, (40 mg, 0.12 mmol) in dichloromethane (2 mL) was added triethylamine
(0.030 mL, 0.22 mmol) and succinic acid 2,5-dioxo-pyrrolidin-1-yl ester methyl ester,
                                            56

prepared as described in the previous step, (31 mg, 0.13 mmol). The solution was
stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and concentrated. The crude was loaded onto
a silica column, elated with 3-5% methanol/dichloromethane containing ammonium
hydroxide to give the title compound as a yellow solid. LC-MS: m/z 456 (M+1).
[00214]       Step C
N-[2-Methyl-10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-4H-3-th ia-4,9-diaza-benzo[flazulen-7
ylmethyl]-succinamic acid
                              N
HOH
      \A                    H
      0
[00215]       To a suspension of N-[2-methyl-10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-4H-3-thia
4,9-diaza-benzo[flazulen-7-ylmrethyl]-succinamic acid     methyl ester, prepared as
described in the previous step, (80 mg, 0.18 mmol) in THF (1.5 mL) was added LiOH
(14 mg) in water (0.5 mL). The solution was stirred at room temperature for 3 h,
acidified with dilute HCI, and concentrated to dryness. LC-MS: m/z 442 (M+1 of the
parent).
                                      EXAMPLE 7
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((1-methyl-4-(2-methyl-1OH
benzo[b]th ieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methyl)acetarnide-keyhole
limpet hemocyanin-conjugate
[00216]       Step A
[00217]       To a 3.19 nL solution of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH, 15.2 mg,
0.152 pmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4 was
added 70.3 pL of a DMF solution of N-succinimidyl-S-acetylthioacetate (SATA, 25
mg/mL, 1.75 mg, 7.60 pmoles). The resulting solution was incubated at 20 IC for I
hour on a roller mixer. To the reaction was added 319 pL of 2.5M hydroxylamnine,
50mM EDTA, pH 7.0 and the resulting solution was incubated at 20'C for 25 min, on
a roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM
phosphate buffer, 0.46 M sodium chloride, 5 mM EDTA, at pH 6.0.
[00218]       Step B
                                            57

[00219]      To the KLH-SH, prepared as described in the previous step, (4.29mL,
12.7mg 0.127 poles) was added an aliquot of the solution prepared in Example 2,
(566.6 pL, 12.7 poless.     The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2 hours at
20 0C on a roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 20 pm syringe filter then
purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium
chloride, at pH 7.4.
                                      EXAMPLE 8
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((I -methyl-4-(2-mnethyl-10H
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)pipera zin-2-yl)methyl)acetamide-bovine
thyroglobulin-conjugate
[00220]      Step A
[00221]      To 2.0 mL of a solution of bovine thyroglobulin (BTG, 20.0 mg, 0.03
poles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 was added 276.0 pL of a DMF solution
of N-succinimidyl-S-acetylthioacetate (SATA, 25 mg/mL, 6.9 mg, 30.0 pmoles). The
resulting solution was incubated at 20   0C for 1 hour on a roller mixer. To the reaction
was added 230 pL of 2.5 M hydroxylamine, 50 mM EDTA, pH 7.0. The resulting
solution was incubated at 20    0C for 15 minutes on a roller mixer. The reaction was
purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 5 mM EDTA,
at pH 6.0.
[00222]      Step B
[00223]      To the BTG-SH, prepared as described in the previous step, (4.73mL,
14.3mg, 0.022 pmoles) was added an aliquot of the solution prepared in Example 2,
(969.6 pL, 21.7 poless.     The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 3 hours at
20  0C  on a roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 pm syringe filter,
then purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer, 0.14M
sodium chloride, at pH 7.4.
                                      EXAMPLE 9
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((1-methyl-4-(2-methyl-1OH
benzo[b]th ieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-4-yl)piperazin-2-yl)methyl)acetamnide-ovalbumin
conjugate
[00224]      Step A
                                            58

[00225]       To 1.2 mL of a solution of ovalbumin (12.0 mg, 0.27 pmoles) in 100mM
phosphate buffer pH 7.5 was added 50.1 pL of a DMF solution of N-succinimidyl-S
acetylthioacetate (SATA, 25 mg/mL, 1.25 mg, 5.42 pmoles).          The resulting solution
was incubated at 20 IC for 1 hour on a roller mixer. To the reaction was added 120
pL of 2.5M hydroxylamine, 50mM EDTA, at pH 7.0.              The resulting solution was
incubated at 20 IC for 15 minutes on a roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a
Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 5mM EDTA, at pH 6.0.
[00226]       Step B
[00227]       To the ovalbumin-SH, prepared as described in the previous step,
(4.2mL, 8.0mg, 0.18 pmoles) was added an aliquot of the solution prepared in
Example 2, (200 pL, 4.5 pmoles). The resulting mixture was incubated for 3 hours at
20 IC on a roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using
100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.14M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4.
                                      EXAMPLE 10
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((2-methyl-4-(4-rnethylpiperazin-1-yl)-IOH
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methyl)acetamide         -     keyhole      limpet
hemocyanin - conjugate
[00228]       To the KLH-SH, prepared as described in Example 7 Step A, (3.31mL,
9.8mg, 0.098 poles) was added a 300 pL aliquot of 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-IH
pyrrol-1 -yl)-N-((2-methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)- OH-benzo[b]thieno[2,3
e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methyl)acetamide solution, prepared as described in Example 4,
(6.9 pmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2.5 hours at 20 IC on a
roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.2 pm syringe filter then purified on
a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46 M sodium chloride,
at pH 7.4.
                                      EXAMPLE 11
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((2-methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-1 0H
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1,4]diazepin-7-yl)methyl)acetamide-ovalbumin-conjugate
[00229]       To the ovalbumin-SH, prepared as described in Example 9 Step A,
(5.38mL, 17.8mg, 0.40 pmoles) was added a 200 pL aliquot of 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5
dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-((2-methyl-4-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-1 OH
benzo[b]thieno[2,3-e][1 ,4]diazepin-7-yl)methyl)acetamide      solution,   prepared     as
                                            59

described in Example 4, (10.2 pmoles). The resulting mixture was incubated for 3
hours at 20 OC on a roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 pm syringe
filter then purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.14
M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4.
                                      EXAMPLE 12
N-[2-Methyl- 10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1 -yl)-4 H-3-th ia-4,9-d iaza-benzo[flazulen-7
ylmethyl]-succinamic acid- bovine thyroglobulin-conjugate
[00230]       Step A
[00231]       A    solution of   N-[2-Methyl-10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-4H-3-thia-4,9
diaza-benzo[f]azulen-7-ylmethyl]-succinamic acid, prepared as described in Example
6, (7.9 mg, 18.0 pmoles), N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS, 8.3 mg, 72.0 pmoles) and
N,N-dicyclohexylcarbodiirnide (14.9 mg, 72.0 poles) in 500 pL of DMF and 5 pL of
tributylamine was allowed to stir for 18 hours at 20 0C, then used as such in
conjugation with protein.
[00232]       Step B
[00233]       To 2.98 mL of a solution of bovine thyroglobulin (BTG, 14.9 mg, 0.023
pmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 was added 500 pL of the solution
prepared in Step A (18.0 pmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated at 20
0C   for 2.5 hours on a roller mixer.   The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 pm
syringe filter then purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate
buffer, 0.14 M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4.
                                      EXAMPLE 13
Competitive Immunoassays for Olanzapine and Multiplex Competitive Immunoassay
for Aripiprazole, Olanzapine, Quetiapine, and Risperidone/Paliperidone
[00234]       Following a series of immunizations with olanzapine immunogens having
Formulas || and Ill, mouse tail bleeds were tested for reactivity using an ELISA.
Hybridoma supernatants were also tested, and the ELISA data shown in Tables 8
(hybridomas generated against an olanzapine immunogen having Formula ll) and 9
(hybridomas generated against an olanzapine immunogen having Formula Ill) below
shows reactivity of several hybridomas (fusion partner was NSO cells).
                                            60

[00235]                Table 8
            PRate 2
  D1s o           1               2              3             4             5        6       7         2                   0        11         12
         0I
         1 4                            I               I               I         I        I       I          I        I         I           I
                 G6           2 25             27       I     26S            2    133        11        21133511             .17
         10I4                           I               I               I         I        I       I          I        I         I           I
        egI
        1.4_        Oe 4                I               I               I         I        I       I         II        I         I           I
                S7       i                     39       1     4         1 4-1 1      42 1 43 1          44146 1            46    1 47        1 46
                         I0654                                              4G      t 3        - 14            I     12 1 4      I         1      86
        2       0413         00         I   34477              2 -           12Q2     1031-
                                                                                         -    -,12 00374 00i 2 .4411 0R741 . 362
     360          232        00 8           00233
                                               -1           0 0163        0 :442 0013 I ' 9 I 33141 t0 027 0 203 36661 0 0217
                                                                                                        1 72
                              l.111
                             t)105            0129          0'0167        6 6224 0012 t :.009 i.0             i i.iSS              t
                                                                                                                         6 6672 0147          66141
    140         033      I 112 1 11412                    1     722     1         13424 16446 1 1 1 1 03BI12.223316 7661 1 356
    -.
     120      -44                 06               7         33           0 0907 3016         144                    3     02F3 0,2956043 4
                                                                                                                         C.'42I0
     3         0004      I 0,0333           0.2'36H 01377               16661I00111 .110.02251 ,76t 16624501212162072
                    3  '3I     ~
                              0a'   3JL                                                                       i-,7     1          C1    0i      2    2
[00236]                Table 9
    1M       3             C.42           2.7,i2                  -27                23-72       24                                    78C2        ;3M'  2.15
                                                                                                                                                         3.0057
                    30     .%2 0022          ?0      05%             92              1
                                                                                     23-12                      2113      037        3.24&                  0I
                                                                                                                                                           C.,7
                 300          208
                            140           U1          .7-25                          1.  1        .f1I.1?                O3.31
                                                                                                                             -S:     924,3       &     4  .052
[00237]                Supernatant was then tested by competition ELISA to determine if the
signals were specific to olanzapine.                                               Figs. 1-3 show the results from three
representative hybridomas resulting from mouse fusion 11.1 (olanzapine immunogen
having Formula 11). Data shows specific reactivity to olanzapine with varied reactivity
to clozapine.
[00238]                Fig. 4 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow
assay device in which the capture antibody, an olanzapine clone, was deposited on a
chip along with a detection conjugate consisting of olanzapine conjugated to a
fluorophore.                 In this competitive format as show in Fig. 4, a low level of analyte
(olanzapine) results in high signal, whereas a high level of analyte (olanzapine)
results in low signal. The amount of olanzapine in the sample can be calculated from
the loss of fluorescence compared to a control sample with no drug present.                                                                                  A
                                                                                 61

typical dose response curve generated with olanzapine clone 35 is shown in Fig. 5,
with olanzapine clone 61 is shown in Fig. 6, and with olanzapine clone 3F1 1 is shown
in Fig. 7.
[00239]       Fig. 8 shows the chip design of a lateral flow assay device according to
one embodiment of the subject invention. The device includes a zone or area for
receiving the sample, a conjugate zone (which contains desired labeled competitive
binding partner(s)), and a reaction zone (eight areas within the reaction zone are
indicated; each area can contain a separate desired antibody). Sample flows from
the sample zone through the conjugate zone and to the reaction zone.
[00240]       Figs. 9-12 show typical dose response curves for an aripiprazole positive
control (sample containing aripiprazole) generated with antibody 5C7 deposited in
reaction zone 2 and a labeled aripiprazole competitive binding partner in the
conjugate zone (Fig. 9), an olanzapine positive control (sample containing
olanzapine) generated with antibody 4G9-1 deposited in reaction zone 4 and a
labeled olanzapine competitive binding partner in the conjugate zone (Fig. 10), a
quetiapine positive control (sample containing quetiapine) generated with antibody 11
deposited in reaction zone 6 and a labeled quetiapine competitive binding partner in
the conjugate zone (Fig. 11), and a risperidone positive control (sample containing
risperidone) generated with antibody 5-9 deposited in reaction zone 8 and a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner in the conjugate zone (Fig. 12). The labeled
competitive binding partners in the conjugate zone compete with the drugs present in
the samples for binding to the antibodies. The amount of label is detected and is an
indication of the amount of drug present in the sample (the amount of signal being
inversely proportional to the amount of drug in the sample - see Fig. 4).
[00241]       In order to confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive binding
partners do not bind to antibodies deposited in the reaction zones, negative controls
were conducted by using samples containing no drugs.          Referring to Table 10, a
sample containing no aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by
capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone, but no labeled aripiprazole) and to the
reaction zone.     The reaction zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in
reaction zone 2. Table 10 below shows the results, confirming that there is no dose
response and the olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone conjugates that move by
capillary action through the reaction zone do not bind to the aripiprazole antibody.
                                           62

[00242]            Table 10
 Aripiprazole-Clone 567-Math Model I (Ong/mIL Conc.)
                              Reaction     Read        Peak Mean   Peak Mean    Mean
  Assay-MM          Conj        Zone      Position        Area       Height   Background
  ARIP-MI1 OLAN, QUEl, RISP     AR            2            0.77       1.56        3.99
[00243]            Referring to Table 11, a sample containing no olanzapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone, but no
labeled olanzapine) and to the reaction zone.                              The reaction zone again contains
olanzapine antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4. Table 11 below shows the results,
confinrming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, quetiapine, and
risperidone conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the olanzapine antibody.
[00244]            Table 11
 OLAN-Clone 4G9-1-Math Model 1l(ng/mL Cons.)
                              Reaction     Read        Peak Mean   Peak Mean    Mean
  Assay-MM          Conj        Zn        Position        Area       Height   Background
   LAN-MMI ARIP,QUETR!SP                      2           -0.03       0.05       4.38
 CLAN-MMI ARIP,QUET,RISP       CLAN           4            0.74       1.10       4.56
 *OLAN-MM1 IARIP,QUETR:SP    h<               6      I0,06            0.09       4.79
 *CAN-MMI ARI P, QUET,                        8      r     0.11       0.13       5.17
[00245]            Referring to Table 12, a sample containing no qletapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, and labeled risperidone, but no
labeled quetiapine) and to the reaction zone.                              The reaction zone again contains
qletiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6. Table 12 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, olanzapine, and
risperidone conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the quetiapine antibody.
                                                                63

[00246]             Table 12
 Quetiapine -Clone 11-Math Model 1 (Ong/roL Conc.)
                                Reaction    Read     Peak Mean   Peak Mean       Mean
 Assay-MM             Conj        Zone     Position      Area      HegtBcron
[00247]             Referring to Table 13, a sample containing no risperidone is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, and labeled quetiapine, but no
labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 13 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, olanzapine, and
quetiapine conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the risperidone antibody.
[00248]             Table 13
                                Reaction   Read     Peak Mean   Peak Mean      Mean
 Assay-MM            Conj        Zone     Position     Area       Height     Background
  RiSP-MM1    A RIP,OLTAN, QUET              2          0.02       0.11         7.43
  R:SP-MM1    A RIP,OLAN, QjUET              A          0.05       0.14         7.73
  RISP-MM1    AR POLAN,QUET                  6          0.20       0.19    r       .1
 SRiSP-MMI    ARIPOLAN, QIET P ISP           8          1.97       3.23         8.85
[00249]             In order to confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive binding
partners bind only to their respective antibodies deposited in the reaction zones,
additional negative controls were conducted by again using samples containing no
drugs. Referring to Table 14, a sample containing no aripiprazole is deposited in the
sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains ailpiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8.                         Table 14 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the aripiprazole antibody 507 (in
reaction zone 2).
                                                             64

[00250]            Table 14
 Aripiprasole-Clone 567-Math Model I1(Ong/nL Conc.)
                                                             Peak   Peak
                                     Reaction                Mean  Mean     Mean
 Assay-MM             Conj            Zone    Read Position  Area  Height Background
 ARIP- MMI .ARIPOLAN QUIET, R:SP      AP      -P    2        60.34 97.53      5,44
 AR IP-MM1! ARIPOLAN,QUET, RSP                      4         2.86  3.91     11.66
 ARIP- MM1ARIP,OLAN,QUET,iRISP          ........    6            2  1.23     11.03
 APP- MMi !APIP,OLANQUETRISP                        8         3.14  4.19     12.94
[00251]            Referring to Table 15, a sample containing no olanzapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled olanzapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8.                      Table 15 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the olanzapine antibody 4G9-1
(in reaction zone 4).
[00252]            Table 15
 OLAN-Clone IG9-1-Math Model       (Ong/mi Conc.)
                                                             Peak   Peak
                                     Reaction                Mean  Mean      Mean
 Assay-MM             Conj            Zone    Read Position  Area  Height Background
 OLAN-MM1    ARIP,OLAN,QUET,RISP                    2         0.02  0.03      4.86
 OLAN-MM     ARIP,CLAN,QUET,RISP      OLAN          4        34.23  51.80     5.39
 CLAN-IviMV  ARIP,CLIAN,QUUIl,RINP                            0.22  0.2       53
 COLAN-MM.   ARIP,CLAN,CLJET,RSP                   8          0.15  0.17      5.59   I
[00253]            Referring to Table 16, a sample containing no quetiapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled quetiapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8.                      Table 16 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the quetiapine antibody 11 (in
reaction zone 6).
                                                            65

[00254]            Table 16
 Quetlapine-Clone 11- Math Model 1 (Ong/mE Cone])
                                                             Peak   Peak
                                   Reaction                 Mean   Mean        Mean
  Assay-MM            Conj           Zone     Read Position  Area  Height  Background
 SQUET-MMI1  ARIP,O LAN,QUET, RISP                   2       0.13   0,41       10.02
 Q1UET/M.    ARIP,0 LAN,QU ET,R1SP                   4       0.08   0.23       10.47
 QUET-MM1    ARIP,OLANQUETRISP      QUET             6      140.35 181.33       7.91
IQOEl- MMI   ARI0,0 LAN,QLI Li, 05 38838             8       1.5B   2.61f   -1153     I
[00255]            Referring to Table 17, a sample containing no risperidone is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
rispeidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8.                       Table 17 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the risperidone antibody 5-9 (in
reaction zone 8).
[00256]            Table 17
 Risperidone-Clone S-S-Math Model I (Ong/rnil Cone.)
                                                             Peak   Peak
                                   Reaction                 Mean   Mean        Mean
  Assay-MM            Conj           Zone     Read Position  Area  Height  Background
  RISP -MMI ARIPOLANQUETS                            2       1.03   1.51       9.07
  RISP-NMM1 ARIPCOLANQUET R1SP       R SP85                        10,1        11.58
[00257]            The results shown above confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive
binding partners bind only to their respective antibodies in the reaction zone.
[00258]            Figs. 13-16 show typical dose response curves in specific antibody
reaction zones, and proof of dose response low/high concentration for each specific
assay in the presence of other conjugates.                            In Fig. 13, a sample containing
aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by capillary action through
the conjugate zone (this time containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction
zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2. A typical dose
response curve was generated as is shown in Fig. 13 only for aripiprazole, and not
for olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone.
[00259]            In Fig. 14, a sample containing olanzapine is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
                                                            66

labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains olanzapine antibody
(4G9-1) in reaction zone 4.     A typical dose response curve was generated as is
shown in Fig. 14 only for olanzapine, and not for aripiprazole, quetiapine, or
risperidone.
[00260]      In Fig. 15, a sample containing quetiapine is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains quetiapine antibody (11)
in reaction zone 6. A typical dose response curve was generated as is shown in Fig.
15 only for quetiapine, and not for aripiprazole, olanzapine, or risperidone.
[00261]      In Fig. 16, a sample containing risperidone is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains risperidone antibody (5
9) in reaction zone 8. A typical dose response curve was generated as is shown in
Fig. 16 only for risperidone, and not for aripiprazole, olanzapine, or quetiapine.
[00262]      Figs. 17-20 show typical dose response curves for each assay in the
presence of other conjugates and antibodies.           In Fig. 17, a sample containing
aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by capillary action through
the conjugate zone (again containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction
zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as
olanzapine antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction
zone 6, and risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. A typical dose response
curve was generated for aripiprazole, as is shown in Fig. 17.           When a sample
containing olanzapine was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve was generated for olanzapine as shown in Fig. 18. When a sample
containing quetiapine was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve for quetiapine was generated as shown in Fig. 19. When a sample
containing risperidone was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve for risperidone was generated as shown in Fig. 20.
[00263]      Figs. 21-24 show comparisons of dose response curves generated as
positive controls (Figs. 9-12) to dose response curves generated in the multiplex
                                            67

format (Figs. 17-20).    The comparison for aripiprazole is shown in Fig. 21; for
olanzapine in Fig. 22; for quetiapine in Fig. 23; and for risperidone in Fig. 24. These
figures show that the positive control curves are similar to the multiplex curves.
[00264]     These data show that a lateral flow assay device of the subject invention
can be used to detect multiple anti-psychotic drugs using a single sample from a
patient on one portable, point-of-care device.
                                           68

Claims
1. A compound of Formula I
                  CNN    R2
               N
             R3
Formula I
wherein:
                                                        0 0
                                                     HNN                  N
                                N    $   OH                        0
R1 is H,                          0         , or                        0
                                                        0 0
                   O     O                        -\ N-     N                O
              -N            N                        H           N
                     H~          N      rOHN
R2 is H,                           0         , or                       0
R3 is H; provided that either R1 or R2 must be H, and further provided that R1 and R2
may not be H simultaneously;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
2. The compound of claim 1, selected from the group consisting of:
                N         0   0
            N          N          N
       N-              H              N         OH
                                        00U
    C    N     S
         H
                                               69

                N         0  0
            N-    N    N-     ,   N            0
                       H            N
       N
            HH
               S                          0
         H
                                               N
                                            N
     0      0                                    ; and
                                              N
                                            N
                         0  0
  0
                                N       N     S
                NN                      H
             0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
3. The compound of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the compound is
                N         0  0
            N          N          N
       N-              H            N        OH
                                      0  0
    C    N     S
         H
4. The compound of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the compound is
                                            70

                N         0    0
            N         N    A        N            0
       N              H               N
            N S                             a
5. The compound of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the compound is
                                                 N
                                             N
                       0     0          N
 HO               NHS
     o      0
6. The compound of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the compound is
                                                 N
                                             N
                        0     0         N
  0    O
       O            NN M          N       N     S
          4
                                          H
    I n      Or
7. A conjugate of a compound of any one of claims 1 - 6 and an immunogenic carrier.
8. The conjugate of claim 7, wherein the compound is
                N        0     0
            N         N         4N
       N_             H               N        OH
            NS
         H
9. The conjugate of claim 7, wherein the compound is
                                              71

               N          0    0
           N          N    A      N            0
       N              H             N
           N S                            a
10. The conjugate of claim 7, wherein the compound is
                                            CN
                                           N
                       0    0         N
 HO               NHS
     o     0
11. The conjugate of claim 7, wherein the compound is
                                              N
                                           N
                        0    0        N
       O
       O        0   NN        $ N       N    S
         4
                                        H
    I n     Or
12. The conjugate of any one of claims 7 - 11, where the immunogenic carrier is a
protein.
13. A process of producing the conjugate of claim 7, comprising contacting the
compound with an immunogenic carrier.
14. The process of claim 13, wherein the compound is
                                            72

              N       0    0
           N        N           N
       N-           H             N          OH
    C    N    S
         H
15. The process of claim 13, wherein the compound is
              N       0    0
           N        NA        N                O
       N            H             N           O
              S                           0
         H
16.  .  The process of claim 13, wherein the compound is
                                               N
                                            N
                    0    0             N
                 N           N
HO            N                         H
     0     0
17.  .  The process of claim 13, wherein the compound is
                                               N
                                           N
                      00N
       O       N                              SH
            0
18. The process of any one of claims 13 - 17, wherein the immunogenic carrier is a
protein.
                                            73

19.    A method of producing an antibody or a binding fragment thereof which binds to
olanzapine, the method comprising:
(i)    selecting a host for antibody production; and
(ii)   inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of any one of claims 1 - 6
and an immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody or a binding
fragment thereof which binds to olanzapine.
20.    A method of producing a hybridoma cell line for producing a monoclonal
antibody which binds to olanzapine, the method comprising:
(i)    selecting a host for antibody production;
(ii)   inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of any one of claims 1 - 6
and an immunogenic carrier;
(iii)  fusing a cell line from said inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to
create a fused cell capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to
olanzapine; and
(iv)   cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridoma cell line.
21.    The method of claim 19, wherein the binding fragment is selected from the group
of fragments consisting of Fv, F(ab'), F(ab')2, scFv, minibody and diabody fragments.
22.    The method of claim 19, wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
23.    The method of claim 20, wherein the hybridoma cell line produces a monoclonal
antibody.
24.    An assay kit comprising the antibody or binding fragment thereof produced
according to the method of any one of claims 19, 21 or 22, or the antibody produced
according to the method of claim 23.
25.    An assay device comprising the antibody or binding fragment thereof produced
according to the method of any one of claims 19, 21 or 22, or the antibody produced
according to the method of claim 23.
26.    The assay device of claim 25, wherein the device is a lateral flow assay device.
                                             74

27.    A method of detecting olanzapine in a sample, the method comprising:
(i)    contacting a sample with the antibody or binding fragment thereof produced
according to the method of any one of claims 19, 21 or 22, or the antibody produced
according to the method of claim 23, labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the
labeled antibody or the binding fragment and olanzapine present in the sample form a
labeled complex; and
(ii)   detecting the labeled complex to detect olanzapine in the sample.
28.    A competitive immunoassay method for detecting olanzapine in a sample, the
method comprising:
(i)    contacting a sample with the antibody or binding fragment thereof produced
according to the method of any one of claims 19, 21 or 22, or the antibody produced
according to the method of claim 23, and with olanzapine or a competitive binding
partner of olanzapine, wherein one of the antibody or the binding fragment and the
olanzapine or competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable marker,
and wherein sample olanzapine competes with the olanzapine or competitive binding
partner thereof for binding to the antibody or the binding fragment; and
(ii)   detecting the label to detect olanzapine in the sample.
29.    The method of claim 28, wherein the olanzapine or competitive binding partner
thereof is labeled with the detectable marker.
30.    The method of claim 28, wherein the antibody or the binding fragment is labeled
with a detectable marker.
31.    The method of claim 28, wherein the immunoassay is performed on a lateral flow
assay device and the sample is applied to the device.
32.    The method of claim 27 or claim 28, further comprising detecting the presence of
one or more analytes in addition to olanzapine.
33.    The method of claim 32, wherein the one or more analytes are anti-psychotic
drugs other than olanzapine.
                                            75

34.     The method of claim 33, wherein the anti-psychotic drugs other than olanzapine
are selected from the group consisting of:          risperidone, paliperidone, quetiapine,
aripiprazole, and metabolites thereof.
35.     The method of claim 27 or claim 28, wherein:
(i)     the detection of olanzapine is an indication of patient adherence with prescribed
olanzapine therapy;
(ii)    the detection of olanzapine is used to determine whether a patient should be
converted from an oral olanzapine regimen to an injectable anti-psychotic regimen;
(iii)   the detection of olanzapine is used to determine if the dose level or dosing
interval of oral or injectable olanzapine should be increased or decreased to ensure
attainment or maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels;
(iv)    the detection of olanzapine is an aid in the initiation of olanzapine therapy by
providing evidence of the attainment of minimum pK levels;
(v)     the detection of olanzapine is used to determine bioequivalence of olanzapine in
multiple formulations or from multiple sources;
(vi)     the detection of olanzapine is used to assess the impact of polypharmacy and
potential drug-drug interactions; or
(vii)   the detection of olanzapine is an indication that a patient should be excluded
from or included into a clinical trial and is an aid in the subsequent monitoring of
adherence to clinical trial medication requirements.
36.     An antibody when produced according to the method of any one of claims 19, 21
or 22.
37.     A hybridoma cell line when produced according to the method of claim 23.
                                             76

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
