ABSTRACT
This disclosure describes formulations and methods for stimulating the production from wells
in nano-darcy shale formations. In one embodiment, the method includes injecting a treatment
mixture containing a metal complexing agent into a nano-darcy shale formation adjacent to a
well at a pressure below the fracture pressure of the formation. A sufficient contact time is
allowed and then the treatment mixture is pumped from the subsurface. This has been shown
to stimulate well production in shale formations. Without being held to a particular theory it
appears that the metal complexing agent is binding with naturally occurring metals in the shale
formation, and particularly divalent metal ions, which are then extracted with the spent fluid.
This removal of naturally occurring metals may be increasing the permeability of the
formation in the contact region adjacent to the well, thereby causing the observed increased
production.
C:\poi\word\1120341 aBSTRACT.dox

            STIMULATION OF WELLS IN NANO-DARCY SHALE FORMATIONS
   [0001]       The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number 2015247994, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
 5                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001a]      This application is being filed on 10 April 2015, as a PCT International patent
   application, and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/087,899, filed
   December 5, 2014, and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/979,210, filed April 14, 2014,
   which applications are hereby incorporated by reference.
10                                          INTRODUCTION
   [0002]       The darcy is a unit of permeability for fluids in a porous material. Nano-darcy
   shale formations refers to those shale formations having an average permeability in at least
   one direction of less than 1 micro-darcy or less than 1x10-6 darcy. In nano-darcy shale
   formations, the range of average pore sizes within the shale spans the size of the hydrocarbons
15 trapped in the shale, e.g., the natural gas molecules and the molecules of the various crude oil
   constituents. That is, the average pore size within the shale may be smaller, approximately the
   same size or larger than the size of the hydrocarbons. This differs from higher permeability
   shale formations in which the average pores sizes are substantially larger than the various
   hydrocarbon molecule sizes.
20 [0003]      While permeability is a useful measurement, the determination of average pore
   size from a permeability measurement relies on assumptions about the shapes of the grains or
   pores in the subsurface. Shale formations are a mixture of clay minerals and larger particles.
   Clay minerals are not normally spherically shaped and also exhibit electro-static properties not
   found in non-clay materials. Thus, as nano-darcy shale formations are typically very high in
25 clay content, they do not exhibit the same behaviors as more permeable formations, even more
   permeable shale formations.
   [0004]      Well stimulation refers to the treatment of an existing well to increase its recovery
   of hydrocarbons or other substances from the subsurface. Because of the different nature of
   nano-darcy shale formations, typical well stimulation techniques have been found to be
30 ineffective or much less effective than in higher permeability formations.
   [0005]      An extreme form of well stimulation is referred to as hydraulic fracturing.
   Hydraulic fracturing of oil and gas wells is conducted by pumping fluids at high pressures and
   high velocities through a vertical and, usually, a horizontal section of a well. The well contains
                                                    1

   a well casing and, in some wells, tubing inside the casing. Perforations or ports in the casing
   are adjacent to targeted intervals of subterranean formations containing a hydrocarbon or
   target product. In hydraulic fracturing, the pressure exerted on the formation is greater than the
   pressure required to substantially fracture the formation, a pressure referred to as the fracture
 5 pressure of the formation which is a function of the formation' properties and the depth where
   the fractures are desired. One test for determining the fracture pressure is the Leak-off test.
   Applying a pressure equal to or greater than the fracture pressure causes the formation to
   fracture, creating an extensive fracture network.
   [0006]       After the fractures or cracks are initiated, pumping is continued, allowing the
10 fractures to propagate. Once the fracture has gained sufficient fracture width, a proppant such
   as sand is added to the fluid and is transported into the fracture system, partially filling the
   fracture network. After the desired amount of proppant is placed in the fractures, additional
   water-based fluid is pumped to flush the casing of any proppant that may have settled in the
   casing. On completion of the fracturing process, the well is opened, allowing a portion of the
15 fracturing fluids to be recovered. As the pressure is relieved, the fracture closes onto the
   proppant, creating a conductive pathway needed to accelerate oil and gas recovery from the
   formation. Hydraulic fracturing is expensive because of the large amounts of fluids and high
   pressures involved.
   [0006a]      The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is
20 included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
   invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the
   prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention
   as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
   [0006b]      Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used
25 in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence
   of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or
   more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
30 [00071       This disclosure describes formulations and methods for stimulating the production
   from wells in nano-darcy shale formations. In one embodiment, the method includes injecting
   a treatment mixture containing a metal complexing agent such as citric acid or EDTA into a
   shale formation adjacent to a well at a pressure below the fracture pressure of the formation.
                                                      2

   A sufficient contact time is allowed and then the treatment mixture is pumped from the
   subsurface. This has been shown to stimulate well production in nano-darcy shale formations.
   In another embodiment, the method includes staging the treatment mixture containing a metal
   complexing agent such as citric acid or EDTA in combination with hydraulic fracturing and
 5 injecting into the formation in conjunction with propagation of the induced fractures. Without
   being held to a particular theory, based on an analysis of the extracted spent treatment fluid it
   appears that the metal complexing agent binds with naturally occurring metals in the
   formation, and particularly divalent and/or trivalent metal ions, which are then extracted with
   the spent treatment mixture. This removal of naturally occurring metals may be increasing the
10 permeability of the formation in the contact region adjacent to the well, thereby causing the
   increased production.
   [0007a]          In one aspect the present invention provides a method for stimulating a well in
   a shale formation comprising: providing a treatment mixture containing between about 0.10%
   and 95% by weight metal complexing agent at a pH of between about 0 and 10; injecting the
15 treatment mixture into the well until at least some of the treatment mixture contacts the shale
   formation; maintaining the treatment mixture in contact with the shale formation for a contact
   time of between about 1 minute to 100 days, thereby allowing the metal complexing agent to
   bind with at least some naturally-occurring metals contained within the shale formation; and
   removing the treatment mixture from the well after the contact time, thereby removing the
20 bound naturally-occurring metals from the shale formation and thereby improving the
   hydrocarbon production of the well relative to the hydrocarbon production immediately prior
   to performance of the method.
   [00081       In one aspect, this disclosure describes a method for fracturing and stimulating a
   well in a nano-darcy shale formation, the method comprising: providing a treatment mixture
25 containing between about 0. 1%and 95 % by weight metal complexing agent at a pH of
   between about 0 and 10; injecting the treatment mixture into the well at a pressure greater than
   a fracture pressure of the nano-darcy shale formation until at least some of the treatment
   mixture enters fractures in the nano-darcy shale formation, thereby allowing the metal
   complexing agent to bind with at least some naturally-occurring metals contained within the
30 nano-darcy shale formation; and removing spent treatment mixture and fracturing fluids from
   the well after the fractures are created, thereby removing the bound naturally-occurring metals
   from the non-darcy shale formation.
                                                     3

WO 2015/160666                                                              PCT/US2015/025399
      [0009]     Another aspect of this disclosure is method for fracturing and stimulating a
      well in a nano-darcy shale formation. The method includes providing a treatment
      mixture containing between about 0.1% and 95% by weight metal complexing agent
      at a pH of between about 0 and 10; injecting the treatment mixture into the well at a
  5   pressure greater than a fracture pressure of the nano-darcy shale formation until at
      least some of the treatment mixture enters fractures in the nano-darcy shale
      formation, thereby allowing the metal complexing agent to bind with at least some
      naturally-occurring metals contained within the nano-darcy shale formation; and
      removing spent treatment mixture and fracturing fluids from the well after the
 10   fractures are created, thereby removing the bound naturally-occurring metals from
      the non-darcy shale formation. The injecting operation may be part of a fracturing
      operation that causes the fractures to occur in the nano-darcy shale formation. The
      method may further include fracturing the nano-darcy shale formation; and wherein
      the injecting operation occurs after the fracturing operation causes the fractures to
 15   occur in the nano-darcy shale formation.
      [00101     These and various other features as well as advantages which characterize
      the systems and methods described herein will be apparent from a reading of the
      following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. Additional
      features are set forth in the description which follows, and in part will be apparent
 20   from the description, or may be learned by practice of the technology. The benefits
      and features of the technology will be realized and attained by the structure
      particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the
      appended drawings.
      [0011]     It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the
 25   following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to
      provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [0012]     The following drawing figures, which form a part of this application, are
      illustrative of described technology and are not meant to limit the scope of the
                                                      4

WO 2015/160666                                                             PCT/US2015/025399
      invention as claimed in any manner, which scope shall be based on the claims
     appended hereto.
      [00131   FIG. 1 is an embodiment of a method of well stimulation.
      [0014]   FIG. 2 illustrates a plot of aluminum, barium, manganese, strontium,
  5  sulfate; and pH vs. time in samples taken from a horizontal well completed in the
      Woodford Shale formation and stimulated using the technique of FIG. I on day 0.
      [0015]   FIG. 3 illustrates a plot of calcium, magnesium and pH vs. time in samples
     taken from a horizontal well completed in the Woodford Shale formation from the
     same experiment as FIG. 2.
 10   [0016]   FIG. 4 illustrates a plot of iron and pH vs. time in samples taken from a
     horizontal well completed in the Woodford Shale formation from the same
     experiment as FIG. 2.
      [0017]   FIG. 5 illustrates performing the stimulation treatment as part of a
     fracturing operation.
 15                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0018]    Although the techniques introduced above and discussed in detail below
     may be implemented for stimulating any subsurface extractions from nano-darcy
     formations, the present disclosure will discuss the implementation of these
     techniques in an oil and gas well for the purpose of extracting hydrocarbons. The
20   reader will understand that the technology described in the context of an oil and gas
     well could be adapted for use with other systems such as water well and solution
     mining wells or any other situation in which the permeability of the subsurface needs
     to be reduced.
     [0019]    This disclosure describes formulations and methods for stimulating the
25   production from wells in nano-darcy shale formations. In one embodiment, the
     method includes injecting a treatment mixture containing a metal complexing agent
     such as citric acid or EDTA into a nano-darcy shale formation adjacent to a well at a
     pressure below the fracture pressure of the formation. A sufficient contact time is
     allowed and then the treatment mixture is pumped from the subsurface. This has
30   been shown to stimulate well production in nano-darcy shale formations. Without
                                                     5

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
      being held to a particular theory, based on an analysis of the extracted spent
     treatment fluid it appears that the metal complexing agent binds with naturally
      occurring metals in the formation (possibly by forming a complex with the metals
      and removing them from the shale), and particularly divalent metal ions, which are
  5  then extracted with the spent fluid. This removal of naturally occurring metals may
      be increasing the permeability of the formation in the contact region adjacent to the
      well, thereby causing the increased production.
      [00201     In an alternative embodiment, the well stimulation treatment is applied as
      part of the fracturing process. It is anticipated that proper integration of the well
 10   stimulation treatment with the fracturing process will achieve a better production
      result than fracturing without stimulation. Both embodiments, the fracturing
      embodiment and the stimulation embodiment done below the fracture pressure of the
      formation, are described in greater detail below.
      [0021]     The present disclosure relates to a process to sequester and remove metal
 15   cations from partially soluble silicon-bearing clay minerals naturally present in a
      subterranean formation. Whether the metallic ions are present from natural sources
      in the reservoir rock prior to drilling into the formation or formed through
      interactions with drilling, completion, or reservoir stimulation (hydraulic fracturing
      or acid stimulation) fluids, the use of metal chelating substances to dissolve or
 20   disperse materials that are, or can, restrict flow into the well bore is presented as a
      commercial method to restore or enhance the productivity of well bores that are
      restricted with such materials. For example, the introduction of hydraulic fracturing
      fluids and/or acid treatments that release metal ions through their interaction with the
      formation materials, such as aluminum, barium, calcium, magnesium, manganese,
 25    iron, strontium, boron and other metals or metalloids. Such metallic or metalloid
       ions may form ion complexes with sulfur bearing ions such as sulfide and sulfate,
      hydroxide ions, and silicon bearing ions such as silicates; for example calcium
      magnesium silicate, that may precipitate or otherwise form flow restrictions in the
      porous space of the reservoir rock in the well bore. Specifically, metallic ion
 30   complexes such as aluminum hydroxide, aluminum silicate, calcium hydroxide,
                                                       6

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
     calcium magnesium silicate, iron hydroxide, iron silicate, magnesium hydroxide,
     magnesium silicate, or other metal hydroxide, and/or silicon complexes, or metal
     sulfide or metal sulfate scales; that through formation of solid or colloidal substances
     may form restrictions that limit the permeability of reservoir rock to producing
  5  hydrocarbons.
      [00221     Introduction and maintenance of a metal-complexing agent into the
     formation allows for the metals to be bound and subsequently removed. For the
     purposes of this disclosure, a metal-complexing agent may be any chemical that can
     bind with a metal regardless of the binding mechanism and includes sequestration
 10  agents, reducing agents, chelating agents, ligands porphyrins, pigments, peptides,
     saccharides and/or nucleic acids. In some embodiments, the metal-complexing agent
      is a chelating agent, an alkali metal salt thereof, a non-alkali metal salt thereof, or
     any combination thereof may be included in the treatment fluids described herein. In
     some embodiments, the chelating agent may be biodegradable. Although use of a
 15  biodegradable chelating agent may be particularly advantageous in some
     embodiments of the present disclosure, there is no requirement to do so, and, in
     general, any suitable chelating agent may be used. As used herein, the term
      "biodegradable" refers to a substance that can be broken down by exposure to
      environmental conditions including native or non-native microbes, sunlight, air,
 20   heat, and the like. Use of the term "biodegradable" does not imply a particular degree
      of biodegradability, mechanism of biodegradability, or a specified biodegradation
      half-life.
      [0023]     In some embodiments, A partially soluble or colloidal metal ion complex,
      such as, for example, calcium magnesium silicate, is solubilized using, for example,
 25   one or a combination of the following chelation chemicals (chelating agent): Acetic
      Acid, Acrylates, Dihydroxymaleic Acid, Salts of Dihydroxymaleic Acid, EDTA
      (ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid), Salts of EDTA, erythorbic acid, erythroboric acid,
      Formic Acid, Gluconodeltalactone, GLDA (glutamic acid N,N-diacetic acid), Salts
      of GLDA, HEDTA (hydroxyethylenediamine triacetic acid), Salts of HEDTA,
 30   HEIDA (disodium ethanoldiglycine), Salts of HEIDA, MGDA (methylglycine N,N
                                                      7

WO 2015/160666                                                                PCT/US2015/025399
     diacetic acid), Salts of MGDA, NTA (nitriolotriacetic acid), Organic Metal
     Complexers, Phosphonic Acid, Polyacrylic Acid and notably Citric Acid in an
     amount sufficient to sequester at least a portion of any metal compounds and there
     by dissolve or disperse materials that can restrict the flow path to the well bore and
  5  the overall permeability of the well bore and reservoir rock system. It should be
     understood that although chelation chemical(s) (chelating agent(s), chelator(s)) have
     been provided herein by way of example, any chelation chemical may be utilized in
     accordance with the present process, so long as the chelation chemical functions in
     accordance with the present disclosure as described herein.
 10   [0024]    In some embodiments, suitable chelating agents may include common
      chelating agent compounds such as, for example, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
      (EDTA), propylenediaminetetraacetic acid (PDTA), nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA), N
      (2- hydroxyethyl)ethylenediaminetriacetic acid (HEDTA),
      diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), hydroxyethyliminodiacetic acid
 15   (HEIDA), cyclohexylenediaminetetraacetic acid (CDTA), diphenylaminesulfonic
      acid (DPAS), ethylenediaminedi(o-hydroxyphenylacetic) acid (EDDHA),
      glucoheptonic acid, gluconic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, glutaric
      acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid, phthalic acid,
      terephthalic acid, aconitic acid, carballylic acid, trimesic acid, isocitric acid, citric
 20   acid, any salt thereof, any derivative thereof, and the like. It is to be noted that NTA
      may be considered to be a biodegradable compound, but it may have undesirable
      toxicity issues.
      [00251    In some embodiments, suitable chelating agents may include biodegradable
      chelating agents such as, for example, glutamic acid diacetic acid (GLDA),
 25   methylglycine diacetic acid (MGDA), p-alanine diacetic acid (p-ADA),
      ethylenediaminedisuccinic acid, S,S- ethylenediaminedisuccinic acid (EDDS),
      iminodisuccinic acid (IDS), hydroxyiminodisuccinic acid (HIDS), polyamino
      disuccinic acids, N-bis[2-(1,2- dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]glycine (BCA6), N-bis[2-(1,2
      dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]aspartic acid (BCA5), N-bis[2-(1,2
 30   dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]methylglycine (MCBA5), N-tris[(1,2
                                                      8

WO 2015/160666                                                            PCT/US2015/025399
      dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]amine (TCA6), N-methyliminodiacetic acid (MIDA),
      iminodiacetic acid (IDA), N-(2-acetamido)iminodiacetic acid (ADA),
     hydroxymethyl-iminodiacetic acid, 2-(2-carboxyethylamino) succinic acid (CEAA),
     2-(2-carboxymethylamino) succinic acid (CMAA), diethylenetriamine- N,N"
  5  disuccinic acid, triethylenetetramine-N,N"'-disuccinic acid, 1,6
     hexamethylenediamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid, tetraethylenepentamine-N,N""
     disuccinic acid, 2-hydroxypropylene-1,3-diamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid, 1,2
     propylenediamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid, ,3-propylenediamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid,
     cis-cyclohexanediamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid, trans-cyclohexanediamine- N,N'
 10  disuccinic acid, ethylenebis(oxyethylenenitrilo)-N,N'-disuccinic acid, glucoheptanoic
     acid, cysteic acid-N,N-diacetic acid, cysteic acid-N-monoacetic acid, alanine-N
     monoacetic acid, N-(3-hydroxysuccinyl) aspartic acid, N-[2-(3- hydroxysuccinyl)]-L
      serine, aspartic acid-N,N-diacetic acid, aspartic acid-N- monoacetic acid, any salt
     thereof, any derivative thereof, or any combination thereof.
 15   [00261    In an alternative embodiment, the metal-complexing agent may be a
      suitable sequestering agent such as polysuccinimide, polyaspartic acid, and
     polymers, oligomers, chains or block-copolymers of the twenty two essential amino
     acids containing metal complexing groups such as carboxylic acids, phosphonic
     acids, sulfonic acids and boronic acids.
 20   [0027]    In one embodiment, the chelating agent is provided between about 0.05%
     weight volume to about 60% weight volume. However, any suitable range may be
     used including from 1% to 40%, and between 2% and 20%. In some embodiments,
     the amount of chelating agent may be even higher as some chelating agents may be
     provided with additives as described in greater detail below.
 25   [0028]    The well stimulation mixture can contain the metal complexing agent as
     well as multiple chemical additives as desired. The additives may include biocide,
     scale inhibitor, clay control additive, oxygen scavenger and surfactant that assists
     fluid recovery. To keep the fracturing treatments affordable, only minimal amounts
     of these additives are used. Each additive is normally liquid-based and is metered
 30  separately into the treatment fluid and mixed with water and other additives in the
                                                    9

WO 2015/160666                                                             PCT/US2015/025399
      blender. The blender includes a 5- to 15-barrel tub with agitation devices. The
      additive concentrations are commonly expressed in parts per million (ppm) or as
      gallons of additive per 1000 gallons of water (abbreviated as gallons per thousand or
      gpt). The additives typically are composed of a chemical that provides the desired
  5   function such as scale inhibition and a solvent, commonly water, alcohol or oil.
      [00291     Another additive that may be used is a corrosion inhibitor. Corrosion
      inhibitors reduce corrosion of the well components. In an embodiment, quaternary
      ammonium compounds typically referred to as quaternary amines are used as a
      corrosion inhibitor in trace amounts to 2,000 ppm. However, any suitable corrosion
 10   inhibitor may be used in any amount as desired. Other examples of possible
      corrosion inhibitors include quaternary amine compounds commonly used for
      protection of metal in the presence of high or low pH and/or dissolved oxygen
      bearing fluids, such as Flex Chem FC-181 and many other similar formulations used
      in well maintenance activities. Quaternary ammonium compounds, acetylenic
 15   alcohols, amide and oxylalkylated alcohols, quinoline quaternary ammonium alkyl
      amine salts and surfactants, nonyl phenol surfactants, alkyl thioamides, oxyalkylated
      phenols, alkyl pyridine benzyl quaternary ammonium chloride, benzyl quaternary
      ammonium chloride, aliphatic amines, cocoamine diquaternary ammonium chloride,
      imadazoline, polyamide, modified amido polyamine, alkylamidomine, amido
 20   imadazoline, alkyl phosphate ester, potassium salt of a glycol phosphate ester, amine
      salt of poly-phosphate ester, tallow diamine ethoxylate, polyacid, amine salt of
      polyphosphonic acid, organic acid-amine salt, crude dimerized fatty acids or tall oil
      dimer-trimer acids.
       [0030]    Surfactants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and many other surfactant
 25   materials that could be selected based on their compatibility with the other materials
       in the chelating solution and pH of the final solution.
       [0031]    Another additive that may be used is a biocide. For example, in an
      embodiment trace amounts to 5,000 ppm tributyl tetradecyl phosphonium chloride
       (TTPC) may be used as a biocide. Any suitable biocide may be used in any amount
 30   as desired. Biocidal agents could include, glutaraldehyde, quaternary amine
                                                     10

WO 2015/160666                                                              PCT/US2015/025399
      compounds such as alkyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride (ADBAC), sodium
      chlorite (which would generate chlorine dioxide in-situ), TTPC, isothiazolin
      compounds, thione based compounds, and many other agents approved for use in the
      well maintenance activities. Other examples of possible biocides include chlorine
  5   dioxide, didecyldimethyl ammonium chloride (DDAC) and brominated
      propionamide.
      [0032]    Dispersing agents such as Dow Acumer 5000 or Versaflex Si to enhance
      the removal of colloidal silicon bearing materials and many other dispersing agents
      that could assist with recovering colloidal material residue from the well bore.
 10   [0033]    Another additive that may be used is a colloidal silica deposition inhibitor.
      The use of a colloidal silica deposition inhibitor, sometimes also referred to as
      amorphous silica control compound, prevents silica scale precipitation within the
      wells during the treatment process. One example of a colloidal silica deposition
      inhibitor is an aqueous solution of organic additive based on phosphino carboxylic
 15   acid copolymer, a commercial version of which is sold under the trademark
      GEOGARD SX. Any suitable colloidal silica deposition inhibitor may be used.
      Other examples of possible colloidal silica deposition inhibitors include such
      materials as phosphate, phosphate ester, or phosphonate compounds; polymaleic, or
      acrylate compounds such as polyacrylic acid scale inhibitors commonly used for
 20   such applications in well maintenance activities.
      [0034]    Another additive that may be used is a mutual solvent. Mutual solvents are
      soluble in oil, water and acid-based mixtures and may be used in a range of
      applications, such as removing heavy hydrocarbon deposits, controlling the
      wettability of contact surfaces before, during or after a stimulation treatment, and
 25   preventing or breaking emulsions. A commonly used mutual solvent is ethylene
      glycol monobutyl ether, generally known as EGMBE or 2-butoxy ethanol. Any
      suitable mutual solvent may be used. Other examples of possible mutual solvents
      include compounds such as ethylene glycol monobutyl ether or FCS-280 or other
      compounds commonly used for such applications in well maintenance activities.
                                                    11

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
      [0035]     Acid may also be used as an additive in order to control the pH of the
      treatment mixture. In an embodiment hydrochloric acid may be used from trace
      amounts to about 30% by weight. Any suitable acid may be used as needed. Other
      examples of possible acids include aqua regia, arsenic acid, boric acid, carbonic acid,
  5   chloric acid, chromic acid, fluoroantimonic acid, fluoroboric acid, fluorosulfuric
      acid, fulminic acid, hexafluorophosphoric acid, hexafluorosilicic acid, hydrobromic
      acid, hydrofluoric acid, hydrogen iodide, hypochlorous acid, hypofluorous acid,
      hypophosphoric acid, iodic acid, nitric acid, nitrosyl-O-hydroxide, nitrous acid,
      orthocarbonic acid, perchloric acid, permanganic acid, perrhenic acid, pertechnetic
 10  acid, phosphoric acid, silicic acid, sulfuric acid, thiocyanic acid, titanic acid, tungstic
     acid or xenic acid.
      [00361     In some wells, well stimulation using the novel treatment mixtures
     designed herein may be made more cost efficient by alternating the injection of the
     treatment mixture with the injection of a diverting material. Many wells have high
 15  volume sections within the well flow paths that are referred to as fluid thief zones in
     that they represent a volume that must be filed during the treatment process but the
      fluid in that zone is ineffective at its task (in this case complexing with metal cations
      in the nano-darcy formation). To address this, a diverting material such as particles
     of polylactic acid in a brine mixture may be used. Diverting materials are designed
 20  to take up larger volumes without interfering with the delivery of treatment
     chemicals to the target zones. Diverting materials are relatively inert with respect to
     the treatment chemicals and are also designed to allow easy passage of the treatment
     chemicals around volumes that they occupy. In addition, many diverting materials
     are designed to breakdown and be easily recoverable after some period of time such
 25  as days or weeks.
      [00371     Diverting materials and mixtures other than particles of polylactic acid in a
     brine mixture may also be used. Diverting agents such as benzoic acid flakes,
     polylactic acid, solid or water soluble ball sealers, rock salt, encapsulated solid
     chelators, etc., other diverting agents. For example, mixtures using products
 30  consisting of various polymers blended with waxes and other solid hydrocarbons
                                                       12

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
     polymers blended with waxes and other solid hydrocarbons have been used as
     diverting material. Diverting materials are designed to be relatively inert with
     respect to the treatment chemicals and are also designed to allow easy passage of the
     treatment chemicals.
  5   [0038]    In an embodiment, a stimulation program may include alternating between
     injecting an amount of treatment mixture, followed by injecting an amount of a
     diverting mixture until such time as the well pressure achieves a target pressure,
     such as a pre-determined target pressure, the fracture pressure for the formation or a
     threshold amount above or below the pre-determined fracture pressure from the
 10  formation calculated based on the fracture pressure.
      [0039]    FIG. I illustrates one such stimulation program, in this case done below the
      fracture pressure of the formation. In the program 100, the treatment mixture is
     obtained in a provide treatment mixture operation 102. The treatment mixture may
      be made or completed on site in a batch process or an amount of treatment mixture
 15   may be brought to the site prior to the stimulation of the well. Any of the
      embodiments of the treatment mixture described above may be used.
      [0040]    A provide diverting mixture operation 104 is also performed in which a
      diverting mixture is either generated at the site prior to use or a mixture is brought to
     the site pre-made. Any diverting mixture as described above may be used. This
 20   operation 104, is also optional and may not be needed if it is determined that there
      will be relatively little lose to thief zones of the treatment mixture during the
      treatment process.
      [0041]    Next, the treatment mixture and the diverting mixture (if any) are injected
      in an injection operation 106. In an embodiment, the two mixtures are alternately
 25   injected in alternating injection operation 106. As described above, predetermined
      amounts of the mixtures may be alternately injected or the injection amounts may be
      varied. In an embodiment, for example, the injection operation alternately injects
      150 barrels of treatment mixture and 150 barrels of diverting mixture.
      [0042]     In one embodiment, injection continues until such time as the well pressure
 30   achieves a target pressure. The target pressure may be a pre-determined target
                                                       13

WO 2015/160666                                                             PCT/US2015/025399
     pressure based on knowledge of the operator. Alternatively, the target pressure may
     be the fracture pressure for the formation or a threshold amount above or below the
      fracture pressure from the formation. Any suitable technique such as the Leak-off
     test may be used to determine fracture pressure.
  5   [00431    Upon reaching the target pressure, a well shut in operation 108 is
     performed. In the shut in operation 108, the well is closed and the treatment mixture
      is trapped in the well.
      [0044]    The well is then maintained in the shut in state in a maintain shut in
     operation 110. This provides contact time for the treatment mixture allowing the
 10  treatment chemicals to react with the shale formation and bind some of the natural
      metals to the treatment mixture. During this period, the pressure may slowly
      decrease and the pH may change due to reactions occurring in the subsurface. The
      contact time provided may be any amount from 1 minute to 100 days. However, it
      appears that I to 3 days may be preferable. Other examples of acceptable ranges of
 15   contact times include: from 3 hours to 7 days; from 6 hours to 5 days; from 12 hours
     to 45 days; from 18 hours to 3 days and from I to 2 days. Too long or too short a
      contact time may result in lowered performance. Too short a time may not allow
      sufficient time for the treatment mixture to complex with the naturally occurring
      metals in the formation. Too long a contact time may result in bound metals
 20   precipitating within the well or formation before they can be removed with the spent
      treatment mixture. It is anticipated that the optimum time may need to be determined
      empirically for each formation or even each depth or region of a formation. In this
      case, determining the contact time may be considered an additional step in the
      stimulation process. This step may include testing multiple wells at different contact
 25   times, using a downhole monitoring device or other mechanism to determine when
      sufficient solubilizing of the formation metals has been achieved or by some ex-situ
      method such as by calculation or lab testing of formation materials.
      [00451    The method ends with the extraction of the treatment mixture in a mixture
      removal operation 112. In the removal operation 112, the well opened and the
 30   mixtures are pumped out of the well. The mixtures will include bound metals from
                                                     14

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
      the subsurface. Again, without being held to a particular theory, based on an
      analysis of the extracted treatment mixtures and laboratory testing it appears that the
      metal complexing agent is forming metal complexes and/or binding with naturally
      occurring metals in the formation, and particularly divalent metal ions, which are
  5   then extracted with the spent treatment mixture. This removal of naturally occurring
      metals may be increasing the permeability of the formation in the contact region
      adjacent to the well, thereby causing the increased production of the well after the
      stimulation using the techniques described above.
      [0046]     FIG. 5 illustrates performing the stimulation treatment as part of a
 10   fracturing operation.
      In the process of hydraulic fracturing, fluid is injected into the well at a pressure that
      induces fractures in the reservoir rock. Pumping is continued after the fractures are
      initiated, which causes the fractures to propagate and widen sufficiently to allow a
      proppant material to enter the fractures. Stages of fluids of different composition are
 15   injected sequentially to induce, propagate and prop the fractures. One example of an
      injection sequence is:
           1. An initial acid (sometimes referred to as the "pre-pad stage"), typically
               containing hydrochloric acid, to clear the wellbore and perforations.
           2. A conditioning (or "pad stage") to open the fractures, and containing
 20            chemicals to condition fluid pathways.
           3. A proppant stage which carries the proppant material into the opened
               fractures, and normally containing a polymer to increase the proppant
               carrying capacity.
           4. A flushing stage to clean excess chemicals and proppant from the wellbore.
 25
      The above sequence and/or individual steps, or stages as they are sometimes called
      below, may be repeated as needed or desired.
      [00471     In the fracturing process embodiment of the well stimulation treatment, a
      stimulation treatment mixture containing a metal complexing agent such as citric
 30   acid or EDTA could be placed in any of the stages, or as an additional stage
                                                     15

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
     anywhere in a fracturing injection sequence, such as the one described above. The
     placement within the injection sequence of the treatment mixture injection would
     affect where the treatment goes within the formation and, therefore, control the
     resulting effects on the formation.
  5   [00481    In the fracturing process embodiment of the well stimulation treatment, a
     stimulation treatment mixture containing a metal complexing agent such as citric
     acid or EDTA could be placed in any of the stages, or as an additional stage
     anywhere in a fracturing injection sequence, such as the one described above. The
     placement within the injection sequence of the treatment mixture injection would
 10  affect where the treatment goes within the formation and, therefore, control the
     resulting effects on the formation.
      [00491    For example, injecting the stimulation treatment mixture before the pad
      stage would make the stimulation treatment mixture contact the formation during the
      stage that opens the fracture and, thus, make it the first fluid to contact the surface of
 15  the newly-induced fractures. Assuming fluids, including the treatment mixture, from
     the early stages leaks off into the formation, placing the stimulation treatment
      mixture before the pad stage would allow the treatment mixture to leak off into the
      formation matrix before other chemicals in the pad stage affect the fracture face.
      [0050]    As another example, placing the stimulation treating mixture in the
 20   proppant stage would allow the chemicals in the pad stage to affect the contact of the
      fracture face before the treatment mixture contacts the fracture face. If the chemicals
      in the pad stage alters the rock along the fracture face it could potentially affect the
      penetration of the treatment mixture. In the extreme case, if chemicals in the pad
      stage prevent fluid leakoff it could potentially prevent the stimulation treatment
 25   mixtures from penetrating into the formation matrix.
      [00511    If a goal is to sequester ions from reservoir rock matrix (e.g., to increase the
      permeability of the rock near the fracture), it may be desirable to inject the treatment
      mixture early in the sequence to get maximum penetration. On the other hand, if the
      goal is to sequester ions from other sources, such as displaced or introduced ions, it
 30   may be desirable to place the treatment later in the sequence. Thus, the injection
                                                     16

WO 2015/160666                                                                PCT/US2015/025399
      sequence can be tailored to specific goals depending on the conditions at the
     wellhead and in the formation. In an embodiment, determination of the optimum
      stage for including injection At this time an optimum treatment mixture placement
      in combination with hydraulic fracturing has not been experimentally determined
  5   and we would like to secure as much treatment design flexibility as possible.
      [0052]    Fluids used in all stages of well fracturing contain chemical additives that
      may include acids, hydrocarbons, gums, polymers, solids, surfactants, scale
      inhibitors, disinfectants, etc. In the current state-of-the-art the formulations and
      placements are designed to facilitate and optimize the hydraulic pumping without the
 10   design or aim of treating the hydrocarbon-bearing formations with metal complexing
      agents.
      [0053]    Acids, commonly hydrochloric, citric, etc., may be added in initial stages to
      clean wellbore debris such as cement from fluid paths and control iron released from
      the steel well components by the harsh chemicals, and the formulations and volumes
 15   are designed to be mostly spent within the wellbore with preferably no entry into the
      fracture, as that would be wasted and, therefore, cost inefficient. Additional
      chemistries are formulated to further facilitate the hydraulic pumping by facilitating
      flow and proppant placement with minimal chemical effect on the formation past the
      fracture face.
 20   [0054]     Loss of fluid into the formation during hydraulic fracturing decreases
      hydraulic efficiency. In applications where fluid loss may affect hydraulics of the
      fracturing operation additives such as diverting materials, polymers, particulates,
      fine sand, hydrocarbons, etc., are commonly added to fracturing fluids to minimize
      leakoff of fracturing fluids into the formation and improve fluid hydraulic efficiency.
 25   In more permeable formations some initial fluid may spurt into the formation matrix
      before a barrier, or wall cake, is formed by the fluid additives, which slows or
      prevents further leakoff. In less permeable formations the fluid additives may
      prevent significant spurt from occurring.
      [0055]     Chemical interactions of fluid formulations during fracturing may be
 30   affected by placement and staging of specific formulations, other chemistries and
                                                       17

WO 2015/160666                                                              PCT/US2015/025399
     sequential placement of the other chemistries. Chemical formulations in early fluid
     stages that may spurt into the formation potentially have more access to the
     formation matrix than later stages that enter the fracture after a wall cake is formed,
     and if such chemical formulations were applied in a fluid stage that did not contain
  5  additional additives the chemical interaction of the chemical formulations with the
     formation matrix could potentially be affected less by the subsequent additives.
     [0056]     The stimulation treatment can be adapted to treat hydrocarbon-bearing
     formations with metal complexing agents. The chemical formulations are as
     described earlier during fracturing. The fracturing embodiments may include
 10  sequencing the well stimulation mixture in combination with hydraulic fracturing in
     ways to treat the formation differently.
     [0057]     In one embodiment, the well stimulation mixture could be formulated and
     injected in an initial stage that opens the fracture and contacts the formation before
     additional chemical additives. There are a number of ways this could be achieved.
 15  For example, a well stimulation mixture of sufficient volume to propagate through
     the induced fracture and contact the formation before a potential barrier or wall cake
     is formed could be injected between the pre-pad and pad stages or the pre-pad and/or
     pad stage could be modified with chemical amendments and/or design to achieve
     formation treatment.
 20   [0058]    In another embodiment, the well stimulation mixture could be formulated
     and injected in a stage containing a diverting or leakoff-minimizing material.
     Initially a limited amount of treatment mixture might contact the formation as wall
     cake is formed and treatment mixture has initial access to diverting material and wall
     cake inner face, outer face and wall cake matrix. In such a case the treatment of the
 25  formation might be influenced by other chemistries in the inclusive and/or prior
     stage(s). This method of treatment could be applied by injecting a new stage or
     modifying a stage containing other materials and formulations.
      [0059]    In another embodiment, the well stimulation mixture could be formulated
     and injected in post-diversion/wall cake stage such as a proppant stage. In this case
 30   immediate access of the stimulation treatment mixture is primarily limited to outer
                                                     18

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
     face of wall cake and other stage materials/chemicals. Treatment of the formation
     might be influenced by other chemistries of prior stages and might be delayed by
     some amount of time for the stimulation treatment mixture to penetrate the diverting
     material/wall cake. This method of treatment could be applied by injecting a new
  5   stage or modifying a stage containing other materials and formulations.
      [00601     In another embodiment, the well stimulation mixture could be formulated
     and injected in a trailing or flushing stage at a pressure below the fracture pressure as
      described with reference to FIG. 1. Treatment of the formation might be influenced
      by other chemistries of prior stages and might be delayed by some amount of time
 10   for the treatment mixture to penetrate the diverting material/wall cake. This method
      of treatment could be applied by injecting a new stage or modifying a stage
      containing other materials and formulations.
      [00611     Turning now to the embodiment of FIG. 5, a well stimulation treatment
      program as part of a fracturing process is described in greater detail. In the program
 15   500, the treatment mixture is obtained in a provide treatment mixture operation 502.
      The treatment mixture may be made or completed on site in a batch process or an
      amount of treatment mixture may be brought to the site prior to the stimulation of
      the well. Any of the embodiments of the treatment mixture described above may be
      used.
 20   [00621     A provide fracturing fluids operation 504 is also performed in which the
      various fracturing fluids necessary for the fracturing operation are either generated at
      the site prior to use or brought to the site pre-made. Fracturing operations and the
      various fracturing fluids for each stage of the fracturing operation are known in the
      art.
 25    [0063]    Next, a combined fracturing/stimulation operation 506 is performed. As
      described above, different embodiments are possible depending upon when during
      the fracturing process the well stimulation mixture is incorporated.
       10064]    FIG. 5 specifically illustrates the embodiment in which the well stimulation
      mixture is injected in the initial stage of the fracturing operation. In the embodiment
 30   illustrated, a pre-pad stage 508 is performed, as described above, to clear the
                                                      19

WO 2015/160666                                                              PCT/US2015/025399
     wellbore and perforations. This may include injecting an acid or other pre-pad
      formulation.
      [00651    The pre-pad stage 508 is then followed by a stimulation injection operation
      510. In this operation 510, the stimulation treatment mixture is injected at a pressure
  5   above the fracturing pressure of the formation in order to create the initial fractures.
      [0066]    A proppant stage 512 is then performed in which proppant material is
      injected and forced into the opened fractures. In an embodiment, the injected
      proppant mixture may include polymers and other chemicals to increase the
      proppant carrying capacity and reduce the pressure needed to inject the proppant.
 10   [0067]    Next, a flushing stage 514 is performed in which excess chemicals and
      proppant from the wellbore. In this embodiment, spent well stimulation treatment
      mixture, bound with metals from the subsurface formation, will also be recovered. It
      is believed, based on the laboratory results and the results observed from stimulation
      below the fracturing pressure, that the combined fracturing/stimulation embodiments
 15   described above will result in a higher production rate for the well that would be
      achieved without the use of the stimulation treatment mixture. Again, without being
      held to a particular theory, this is presumably because of the affect the stimulation
      treatment mixture has on the formation. By binding with naturally occurring metals
      in the formation, and particularly divalent metal ions, it is believed that the
 20   permeability of the formation near the fractures is increased, thereby causing the
      increased production of the well that would otherwise be observed.
      [00681    As discussed above, the entire process may be repeated until sufficient
      fracturing has been achieved. Other embodiments of the method 500 are possible.
      In addition to changing any of the specific components of the mixtures as described
 25   above, changes to when and how the mixtures are produced and injected may be
      made without departing from the teaching of this disclosure.
                                                    20

   WO 2015/160666                                                              PCT/US2015/025399
   EXAMPLES
   Example 1
   [0069]    A laboratory analysis was performed in which an embodiment of the
 5 treatment mixture was mixed with a sample of nano-darcy shale material obtained
   from well cuttings of a well drilled into the Barnett Shale Formation, a nano-darcy
   shale formation. The embodiment of the treatment mixture was as follows: 10% by
   weight citric acid; 2000 ppm of quaternary amine; 5000 ppm of TTPC; 10000 ppm
   of GEOGARD SX colloidal silica deposition inhibitor; 20 gpt of 2-butoxy ethanol;
10 and 10% by weight hydrochloric acid in an aqueous mixture.
   [0070]    The Barnett Shale material was mixed with the embodiment described
   above and allowed to soak for 96 hours at 179 degrees F. An analysis of various
   metals was performed by Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP) on treatment mixture
   removed from the shale material after the end of the 96 hours. The results, provided
15 below, show that the treatment mixture is effective at binding with metals naturally
   occurring in the nano-darcy shale formation.
                  Aluminum        Arsenic       Barium       Boron    Calcium      Iron       Potassium
        mg/L          710.8           1.9         2.0         37.3      21.7       2,808         192.6
       mg/Kg        31,796.0         85.0        89.5       1,668.53   970.7      125,609       8615.5
                    Magnesium       Manganese          Sodium           Silicon       Strontium
        mg/L             68.2             53.1           30.8             8.9             0.8
       mg/Kg           3,050.8         2,375.3          1,377.8          398.1           35.8
                   Molybdenum         Antimony
        mg/L             <0.3              10.8
       mg/Kg             <13.4            483.1
20
    Example 2
                                                         21

   WO 2015/160666                                                             PCT/US2015/025399
    [0071]   A laboratory analysis was performed in which an embodiment of the
    treatment mixture was mixed with a sample of nano-darcy shale material obtained
    from well cuttings of a well drilled into the Cana Woodford Shale Formation, a
    nano-darcy shale formation. The embodiment of the treatment mixture was as
 5  follows: 10% by weight citric acid; 2000 ppm of quaternary amine; 5000 ppm of
    TTPC; 10000 ppm of GEOGARD SX colloidal silica deposition inhibitor (aqueous
    solution of organic additive based on phosphino carboxylic acid copolymer); 20 gpt
    of 2-butoxy ethanol; and 10% by weight hydrochloric acid in an aqueous mixture.
    [00721   A 4.471g sample of the Cana Woodford Shale material was mixed with
10  200 ml of the embodiment described above and allowed to soak for 96 hours at 179
    degrees F. An ICP analysis of various metals was performed on treatment mixture
    removed from the shale material after 1 hour and another at the end of the 96 hours.
    The results, provided below, show that the treatment mixture is effective at binding
    with metals naturally occurring in the nano-darcy shale formation,
15
        Time
      Removed      Aluminum      Antimony       Arsenic      Barium    Boron     Calcium        IronTot
        hours         mg/L           mg/L         mg/L         mg/L     mg/L       mg/L           mg/L
           1           102           0.210        0.190         2.70    6.87        344            150
          96          2,994          6.165        5.578        79.26   201.67      10,098         4,403
         Time
      Removed        Potassium       Magnesium        Manganese      Molybdenum          Silicon
        hours           mg/L             mg/L             mg/L           mg/L             mg/L
           1            49.8              233              4.35          0.450             211
          96           1,461.9           6,840           127.70          13.210           6,194
                                                        22

WO 2015/160666                                                             PCT/US2015/025399
        Time
      Removed          Sodium          Strontium
        hours           mg/L             mg/L
            1            20.9             3.77
           96           613.5            110.67
    Example 3
 5  [0073]    An experiment was performed in a well located in the nano-darcy
    Woodford shale formation in Canadian County, Oklahoma. In this experiment the
    following 1200 barrel treatment mixture was used: 10% by weight citric acid; 2000
    ppm of quaternary amine; 5000 ppm of TTPC; 10000 ppm of GEOGARD SX
    colloidal silica deposition inhibitor (aqueous solution of organic additive based on
10  phosphino carboxylic acid copolymer); and 20 gpt of 2-butoxy ethanol. A diverting
    material was also used comprising different sizes of poly lactic acid particles in a
    10.2 pound/gallon brine mixture to create a diverting mixture. The treatment and
    diverting mixtures were alternately injected into the well in amounts of 150 barrels
    each until completion. After completion the well was shut in and the treatment
15  mixture maintained in the well for 4 days.
    [0074]    The treatment mixture was then extracted and analyzed for metal content
    including aluminum, iron, magnesium and silicon. The following table is a list of
    results of the analysis.
                                                          Rw.      Al      Fe        Mg        Si
     Sample
         #:      Day:    Time:      pH:      Sp. Gr.    Ohm-M    jmgfjL   mg/Li    mg/L      mg/L
       Pre
        Job               9:00      7.07     1.0049      0.650    0.18   <0.18      5.28     41.4
          1        1     12:00      7.38     1.0050      0.800     118   1,399       586      26
         2         2     14:00      6.19     1.0250      0.340     300   2,304      1,270     104
         3         2     15:00      6.28     1.0262      0.340     303   2,156      1,294     116
         4         2     16:00      6.24     1.0247      0.340     295    1,926     1,271     110
                                                     23

WO 2015/160666                                      PCT/US2015/025399
        5      2  18:00  6.25 1.0250    0.320 333 2,017   1,457        98
        6      2  19:00  6.17 1.0258    0.320 333 1,846    1,389      107
        7      2  20:00  6.26 1.0251    0.315 319 1,746    1,366       87
         8     2  22:00  6.23 1.0263    0.330 321 1,730    1,361       91
        9      3   0:00  6.30 1.0250    0.320 330 1,593    1,416       92
        10     3   2:00  6.33 1.0247    0.340 331 1,468    1,396       91
        11     3   4:00  6.25 1.0249    0.300 372 1,725    1,601      110
        12     3   6:00  6.25 1.0271    0.310 347 1,567    1,496       82
        13     3   8:00  6.34 1.0277    0.320 376 1,673    1,593       69
        14     3  10:00  6.24 1.0279    0.320 379 1,668    1,621       72
        15     3  12:00  6.20 1.0280    0.310 391 1,703    1,714       81
        16     3  14:00  6.19 1.0301    0.295 403 1,726    1,744       72
        17     3  16:00  6.20 1.0307    0.300 418 1,772    1,805       85
        18     3  18:00  6.18 1.0310    0.280 440 1,816    1,849       89
        19     3  20:00  6.16 1.0317    0.295 434 1,750    1,872      114
        20     3  22:00  6.22 1.0320    0.295 438 1,765    1,886       74
        21     4   0:00  6.16 1.0320    0.290 434 1,754    1,857      104
        22     4   2:00  6.20 1.0314    0.300 481 1,828    1,975        89
        23     4   4:00  6.23 1.0312    0.280 463 1,766    1,918       106
        24     4   6:00  6.16 1.0315    0.280 448 1,675    1,873       111
        25     4   8:00  6.37 1.0310    0.280 464 1,714    1,887        58
        26     4  10:00  6.32 1.0306    0.270 498  1,782   1,933        67
        27     4  12:00  6.34 1.0303    0.275 478  1,734   1,886        72
        28     4  14:00  6.33 1.0300    0.280 508  1,785   1,951       106
        29     4  16:00  6.31 1.0304    0.290 490  1,657   1,844        82
        30     4  18:00  6.35 1.0300    0.295 492  1,686   1,867        61
        31      5 12:00  6.35 1.0299    0.300 529  1,705   1,895        66
        32      6  12:00 6.35 1.0300    0.300 421  1,256   1,486        47
        33      7  12:00 6.36 1.0300    0.300 436  1,276   1,489        72
        34      8  12:00 6.38 1.0294    0.300 464  1,636   1,794        70
        35      9  11:00 6.40 1.0295    0.300 414  1,206   1,440        81
        36     10  10:30 6.39 1.0300    0.300 470  1,716   1,863        71
        37     11  10:00 6.54 1.0240    0.290 414  1,226   1,402        68
                                     24

WO 2015/160666                                                                PCT/US2015/025399
        38        12     9:00       6.59      1.0230    0.285       364     1,090     1,239      56
        39        13     10:00      6.51      1.0195    0.305       241      803       888       95
        40        14     17:30      6.50      1.0215    0.300       400     1,194     1,401      80
        41        15     13:30      6.54      1.0219    0.299       314      951      1,110      89
        42        16     12:00      6.52      1.0200    0.300       252      810       942       98
        43        17     15:30      6.52      1.0205    0.300       334     1,016     1,212     113
        44        18     10:30      6.53      1.0195    0.300       252      807       964      101
        45        19     10:00      6.53      1.0200    0.305       233      749       872       92
        46       20      12:00      6.44      1.0183    0.305        167     625       670       86
        47       21      11:00      6.50      1.0158    0.305       242      793       916      100
        48       22      13:30      6.45      1.0175    0.310       225      760       861       94
        49       23      12:30      6.38      1.0171    0.310       232      784       917      105
        50       24      12:30      6.60      1.0164    0.310        189     669       769       93
    [00751    In the experiment, after the shut in period, the well was pumped and
    samples of extracted flowback liquids were obtained and analyzed for various
    constituents over a 24 day period. The data shows a trend similar to the laboratory
 5  analyses of a high initial recovery of metals that trails off significantly over the first
    3-7 days.
    [0076]    In addition, the subsequent well production rates were determined and
    compared to the production rate of the well prior to stimulation. The comparison
    showed that the gas production showed an 11 to 1 improvement in product rates.
10  The liquid hydrocarbon production showed a 5 to 1 improvement after stimulation.
    Example 4
    [0077]    FIGS. 2 through 4 illustrate some results obtained from the use of
    embodiments of the stimulation treatment mixtures described above.
15  [00781    FIG. 2 illustrates a plot of aluminum, barium, manganese, strontium,
    sulfate; and pH vs. time in samples taken from flowback out of a horizontal well
    completed in the Woodford Shale formation.
                                                     25

WO 2015/160666                                                               PCT/US2015/025399
      [00791     FIG. 3 illustrates a plot of calcium, magnesium and pH vs. time in samples
      taken from a horizontal well completed in the Woodford Shale formation from the
      same experiment as FIG. 2.
      [0080]     FIG. 4 illustrates a plot of iron and pH vs. time in samples taken from a
  5   horizontal well completed in the Woodford Shale formation.
      [0081]     Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing quantities of
      ingredients, properties such as molecular weight, reaction conditions, and so forth
      used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all
      instances by the term "about." Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the
 10   numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are
      approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be
      obtained.
      [0082]     As used herein, "about" refers to a degree of deviation based on
      experimental error typical for the particular property identified. The latitude
 15   provided the term "about" will depend on the specific context and particular property
      and can be readily discerned by those skilled in the art. The term "about" is not
      intended to either expand or limit the degree of equivalents which may otherwise be
      afforded a particular value. Further, unless otherwise stated, the term "about" shall
      expressly include "exactly," consistent with the discussions regarding ranges and
 20   numerical data. Concentrations, amounts, and other numerical data may be
     expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a
     range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be
      interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the
      limits of the range, but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub
 25  ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub-range is
     explicitly recited. As an illustration, a numerical range of "about 4 percent to about
     7 percent" should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of
     about 4 percent to about 7 percent, but also include individual values and sub-ranges
     within the indicated range. Thus, included in this numerical range are individual
 30  values such as 4.5, 5.25 and 6 and sub-ranges such as from 4-5, from 5-7, and from
                                                      26

WO 2015/160666                                                            PCT/US2015/025399
     5.5-6.5; etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value.
     Furthermore, such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the
     range or the characteristics being described.
     [0083]    Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the
  5  broad scope of the disclosure are approximations, the numerical values set forth in
     the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value,
     however, inherently contain certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard
     deviation found in their respective testing measurements.
     [0084]    It will be clear that the systems and methods described herein are well
 10  adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those inherent
     therein. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the methods and systems within
     this specification may be implemented in many manners and as such is not to be
     limited by the foregoing exemplified embodiments and examples. In other words,
     functional elements being performed by a single or multiple components, in various
 15  combinations of hardware and software, and individual functions can be distributed
     among software applications at either the client or server level. In this regard, any
     number of the features of the different embodiments described herein may be
     combined into one single embodiment and alternate embodiments having fewer than
     or more than all of the features herein described are possible.
 20   [0085]    It will be clear that the systems and methods described herein are well
     adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those inherent
     therein. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the methods and systems within
     this specification may be implemented in many manners and as such is not to be
      limited by the foregoing exemplified embodiments and examples. In this regard, any
 25  number of the features of the different embodiments described herein may be
     combined into one single embodiment and alternate embodiments having fewer than
     or more than all of the features herein described are possible.
      [0086]    While various embodiments have been described for purposes of this
     disclosure, various changes and modifications may be made which are well within
 30  the scope of the present disclosure. Numerous other changes may be made which
                                                     27

WO 2015/160666                                                            PCT/US2015/025399
     will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are encompassed
     in the spirit of the disclosure.
                                                   28

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method for stimulating a well in a shale formation comprising:
        providing a treatment mixture containing between about 0.1% and 950% by weight
metal complexing agent at a pH of between about 0 and 10;
        injecting the treatment mixture into the well until at least some of the treatment
mixture contacts the shale formation;
        maintaining the treatment mixture in contact with the shale formation for a contact
time of between about 1 minute to 100 days, thereby allowing the metal complexing agent to
bind with at least some naturally-occurring metals contained within the shale formation; and
        removing the treatment mixture from the well after the contact time, thereby removing
the bound naturally-occurring metals from the shale formation and thereby improving the
hydrocarbon production of the well relative to the hydrocarbon production immediately prior
to performance of the method.
2.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the metal complexing agent is citric acid.
3.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the metal complexing agent is
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA).
4.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the metal complexing agent is acetic acid.
5.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the metal complexing agent comprises at
least one of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), propylenediaminetetraacetic acid
(PDTA), nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA), N-(2- hydroxyethyl)ethylenediaminetriacetic acid
(HEDTA), diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), hydroxyethyliminodiacetic acid
(HEIDA), cyclohexylenediaminetetraacetic acid (CDTA), diphenylaminesulfonic acid
(DPAS), ethylenediaminedi(o-hydroxyphenylacetic) acid (EDDHA), glucoheptonic acid,
gluconic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid,
suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid, phthalic acid, terephthalic acid, aconitic acid,
carballylic acid, trimesic acid, isocitric acid, citric acid, or any salt or derivative of any of the
previously listed compounds.
                                                   29

6.      The method according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein the treatment mixture
comprises:
        between about 0.1% and 950% by weight metal complexing agent;
        between 1 and 10,000 parts per million (ppm) of a corrosion inhibitor;
        between 1 and 10,000 ppm of a biocide;
        between 1 and 10,000 ppm of a colloidal silica deposition inhibitor;
        between 1 and 500 gallons per thousand gallons (gpt) of a mutual solvent; and
        between 1 and 2000 parts per million of a surfactant.
7.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the treatment mixture
further comprises between 0.1 and 95% of acid as pH modifier.
8.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the injecting operation further comprises:
        alternately injecting a first amount of treatment mixture and a second amount of a
diverting mixture into the well.
9.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the injecting operation
further comprises:
        injecting the treatment mixture until a pressure within the well reaches a predetermined
target pressure; and
        upon reaching the target pressure, shutting in the well.
10.     The method according to claim 1, further comprising injecting the treatment mixture
containing a metal complexing agent in combination with hydraulic fracturing and injecting
into the formation in conjunction with propagation of induced fractures, wherein the metal
complexing agent comprises citric acid or EDTA.
11.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, further comprising:
        monitoring at least one of pH and well pressure during the maintaining operation; and
        initiating the removing operation based on results of the monitoring operation.
12.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the metal complexing agent is selected from
glutamic acid diacetic acid (GLDA), methylglycine diacetic acid (MGDA), p-alanine diacetic
                                                 30

acid (p-ADA), ethylenediaminedisuccinic acid, S,S- ethylenediaminedisuccinic acid (EDDS),
iminodisuccinic acid (IDS), hydroxyiminodisuccinic acid (HIDS), polyamino disuccinic acids,
N-bis[2-(1,2- dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]glycine (BCA6), N-bis[2-(1,2
dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]aspartic acid (BCA5), N-bis[2-(1,2
dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]methylglycine (MCBA5), N-tris[(1,2- dicarboxyethoxy)ethyl]amine
(TCA6), N-methyliminodiacetic acid (MIDA), iminodiacetic acid (IDA), N-(2
acetamido)iminodiacetic acid (ADA), hydroxymethyl-iminodiacetic acid, 2-(2
carboxyethylamino) succinic acid (CEAA), 2-(2-carboxymethylamino) succinic acid
(CMAA), diethylenetriamine- N,N"-disuccinic acid, triethylenetetramine-N,N"'-disuccinic
acid, 1,6- hexamethylenediamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid, tetraethylenepentamine-N,N""
disuccinic acid, 2-hydroxypropylene-1,3-diamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid, 1,2- propylenediamine
N,N'-disuccinic acid, 1,3-propylenediamine-N,N'-disuccinic acid, cis-cyclohexanediamine
N,N'-disuccinic acid, trans-cyclohexanediamine- N,N'-disuccinic acid,
ethylenebis(oxyethylenenitrilo)-N,N'-disuccinic acid, glucoheptanoic acid, cysteic acid-N,N
diacetic acid, cysteic acid-N-monoacetic acid, alanine-N-monoacetic acid, N-(3
hydroxysuccinyl) aspartic acid, N-[2-(3- hydroxysuccinyl)]-L-serine, aspartic acid-N,N
diacetic acid, aspartic acid-N- monoacetic acid, any salt thereof, any derivative thereof, or any
combination thereof.
13.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the metal complexing agent is selected from
acetic acid, acrylates, dihydroxymaleic acid, salts of dihydroxymaleic acid, EDTA
(ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid), salts of EDTA, erythorbic acid, erythroboric acid, formic
acid, gluconodeltalactone, GLDA (glutamic acid N,N-diacetic acid), salts of GLDA, HEDTA
(hydroxyethylenediamine triacetic acid), salts of HEDTA, HEIDA (disodium
ethanoldiglycine), salts of HEIDA, MGDA (methylglycine N,N-diacetic acid), salts of
MGDA, NTA (nitriolotriacetic acid), organic metal complexers, ligands, porphyrins,
pigments, peptides, saccharides, nucleic acids, phosphonic acid, polyacrylic acid and citric
acid in an amount sufficient to sequester at least a portion of a metal compound.
14.     The method according to claims 1 to 13, wherein the shale formation is a nano-darcy
shale formation.
15.     A method for fracturing and stimulating a well in a nano-darcy shale formation, the
                                                31

method comprising:
        providing a treatment mixture containing between about 0.1% and 950% by weight
metal complexing agent at a pH of between about 0 and 10;
        injecting the treatment mixture into the well at a pressure greater than a fracture
pressure of the nano-darcy shale formation until at least some of the treatment mixture enters
fractures in the nano-darcy shale formation, thereby allowing the metal complexing agent to
bind with at least some naturally-occurring metals contained within the nano-darcy shale
formation; and
        removing spent treatment mixture and fracturing fluids from the well after the fractures
are created, thereby removing the bound naturally-occurring metals from the non-darcy shale
formation.
16.     The method according to claim 15, the injecting operation being part of a fracturing
operation that causes the fractures to occur in the nano-darcy shale formation.
17.     The method according to claim 15 or claim 16, further comprising:
        fracturing the nano-darcy shale formation; and
        wherein the injecting operation occurs after the fracturing operation causes the
fractures to occur in the nano-darcy shale formation.
18.     The method according to claim 17, the injecting operation comprising injecting
proppant into the fractures to occur in the nano-darcy shale formation.
                                                 32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
