   Abstract
   A gaming system comprising: a display; and a game
   controller arranged to: cause the display to display a
 5 plurality of game displays in which a plurality of games
   will be carried out; receive a player selection of a game
   of the plurality of games; carry out the plurality of
   games in their respective game displays; and make an award
   upon a comparison of an outcome of the player selected
10 game with an outcome of a non-selected game or games
   satisfying an award criteria.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                              5/7
                                                              ~. ~LO                     IC)       I)         V)I)
             -   N                           0\
                                     CN                                   cu
        CD                             aD          mu                             2       N0
                                                                                           p
                        Eu           0                                                                       0: C
               Cu
                                                            Ln           U-              ILL      _    _   _
                                N       4             N        N
                            N    N                    N       N
                                         Co~                 C                                                   (0(0
                                                                                             coi
           (00                                                                                         E~
                                                CD~~          0M                                        D        C
                                                Ou                 Cu0
                        CD                   N                    N
                0E                           co           CD      o0
                CID0
                            a))      -                 c                                                 .
                            E            E0                  0                  E
                                                              0                                                       (0
                                                              0       :3                       02
CD
   0)
         a       LL
                     0
                       C           LL0
                                         =       ~         =
                                                       U-0 )
                                                                cu
                                                                >D~
                                                                L
                                                                            Co)
                                                                           LLOC
                                                                                      >
                                                                                                              CD)0. a
      N                                                                                              0
                            C.0D
                                                              0                     0
             a)     a)             N            0       L                   L                        0
                           10      10                                                 a)            0
                                     N                                 Dc       --             O
                              100U-0cm             0   L            0                         10

   Title
   A GAMING SYSTEM AND A METHOD OF GAMING
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian patent application no.
10 2013205703, which in turn is a divisional application of
   Australian patent application no. 2011201565, which in
   turn is a divisional application of Australian patent
   application no. 2010251793. The disclosures of each of
   these applications are incorporated herein by reference.
15
   Field
   The present invention relates to a gaming system, a method
   of gaming, a game controller and computer program code.
20
   Background to the Invention
   It is known to provide a gaming system such as a video
   slot machine wherein symbols are displayed as a plurality
25 of virtual reels on a video display. Each reel comprises a
   plurality of symbols arranged in a predetermined sequence.
   Typically, when a reel stops, a plurality of symbols of
   each reel are visible on the display.  For example, three
   symbols of each reel.
30
   While such gaming systems provide users with enjoyment, a
   need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
   maintain or increase player enjoyment.
35 Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                              -2
    comprising:
                a display; and
                a game controller arranged to:
                             cause the display to display a plurality of game
  5 displays in which a plurality of games will be carried
    out;
                             receive a player selection of a game of the
    plurality of games;
                             carry out the plurality of games in their
10  respective game displays; and
                             make an award upon a comparison of an outcome of
    the player selected game with an outcome of a non-selected
    game or games satisfying an award criterion.
15  In an embodiment, the award criterion is that a prize
    total related to the selected game is greater than the
    prize total related to each of the other games.
    In an embodiment, each of the games is different.
20
    In an embodiment, each of the different games has a
    different volatility.
    In an embodiment, the game controller carries out at least
25  one of the plurality of games by conducting a series of
    game rounds.
    In an embodiment, the game controller carries out a
    plurality of game rounds for each of the games.
30
    In an embodiment, the game controller carries out the same
    number of game rounds for each game.
    In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
35  determine an outcome of each game by monitoring each game
    for occurrence of one or more designated game events.
    10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 3
   In an embodiment, each of the games comprises a spinning
   reel game, each game round comprises a spin of the reels,
   the designated event is occurrence of one or more
   designated symbols in the symbols which are the outcome of
 5 each spin and the outcome of each game is the total number
   of designated symbols occurring across the game rounds of
   each game.
   In an embodiment, the comparison is to determine whether
10 the number of designated symbols in the selected game is
   greater than in respective ones of each of the non
   selected games.
   In an embodiment, the comparison is to determine whether
15 the number of designated symbols in the selected game is
   greater than a combined number of designated symbols in
   the non-selected games.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged
20 to evaluate each game round of each game relative to a pay
   table of the respective game to determine any amount which
   payable based on the pay table and upon the award
   criterion being met, make an award corresponding to the
   total amount payable in respect of each of the games.
25
   In an embodiment, there are a plurality of award criteria
   which may be satisfied and different awards correspond to
   different criteria.
30 In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to make
   an award corresponding to the total amount payable in
   respect of the player selected game upon a second award
   criteria being met.
35 In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to cause
   the plurality of game displays to be displayed in response
   to a trigger condition being met.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                     - 4
   In an embodiment, the trigger condition is one or more of:
               an occurrence of a specific symbol or symbols;
               a random occurrence related to turnover or time;
 5             a machine event;
               a trigger received from an external device;
               a system event;
               a condition initiated by an operator;
               a decision by a player; or
10             an additional bet by a player.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a memory and
   a processor arranged to implement the game controller by
   executing program instructions stored in the memory.
15
   In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a game play
   mechanism operable to place a wager, to initiate play and
   make the player selection of a game display.
20 In a second aspect, there is provided a game controller
   for a gaming system, the game controller arranged to:
               cause a display to display a plurality of game
   displays in which a plurality of games will be carried
   out;
25             receive a player selection of a game;
               carry out the plurality of games and cause them to be
   displayed in their respective game displays; and
               make an award upon a comparison of an outcome of the
   player selected game with an outcome of a non-selected
30 game or games satisfying an award criterion.
   In an embodiment, the game controller comprises a display
   controller for controlling the display to display a
   plurality of game displays.
35
   In an embodiment, the game controller comprises an award
   comparator for comparing the outcome of the player
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 5
   selected game with an outcome of the non-selected game or
   games to determine whether they satisfy the award
   criterion.
 5 In an embodiment, the award criteria is that a prize total
   related to the selected game is greater than the prize
   total related to each of the other games.
   In an embodiment, each of the games is different.
10
   In an embodiment, each of the different games has a
   different volatility.
   In an embodiment, the game controller carries out at least
15 one of the plurality of games by conducting a series of
   game rounds.
   In an embodiment, the game controller carries out a
   plurality of game rounds for each of the games.
20
   In an embodiment, the game controller carries out the same
   number of game rounds for each game.
   In an embodiment, the game controller comprises at least
25 one outcome evaluator arranged to determine an outcome of
   each game by monitoring each game for occurrence of one or
   more designated game events.
   In an embodiment, each of the games comprises a spinning
30 reel game, each game round comprises a spin of the reels,
   the designated event is occurrence of one or more
   designated symbols in the symbols which are the outcome of
   each spin and the outcome of each game is the total number
   of designated symbols occurring across the game rounds of
35 each game.
   In an embodiment, the comparison is to determine whether
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                     - 6
   the number of designated symbols in the selected game is
   greater than in respective ones of each of the non
   selected games.
 5 In an embodiment, the comparison is to determine whether
   the number of designated symbols in the selected game is
   greater than a combined number of designated symbols in
   the non-selected games.
10 In an embodiment, the outcome evaluator is further
   arranged to evaluate each game round of each game relative
   to a pay table of the respective game to determine any
   amount which payable based on the pay table and upon the
   award criterion being met, make an award corresponding to
15 the total amount payable in respect of each of the games.
   In an embodiment, there are a plurality of award criteria
   which may be satisfied and different awards correspond to
   different criteria.
20
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to make
   an award corresponding to the total amount payable in
   respect of the player selected game upon a second award
   criteria being met.
25
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to cause
   the plurality of game displays to be displayed in response
   to a trigger condition being met.
30 In an embodiment, the trigger condition is one or more of:
               an occurrence of a specific symbol or symbols;
               a random occurrence related to turnover or time;
               a machine event;
               a trigger received from an external device;
35             a system event;
               a condition initiated by an operator;
               a decision by a player; or
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

               an additional bet by a player.
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a method of
   electronic gaming comprising:
 5             causing an electronic display to display a plurality
   of game displays in which a plurality of games will be
   carried out;
               receiving a player selection of a game of the
   plurality of games;
10             carrying out the plurality of games in their
   respective game displays; and
               making an award upon a comparison of an outcome of
   the player selected game with an outcome of a non-selected
   game or games satisfying an award criterion.
15
   In an embodiment, the award criterion is that a prize
   total related to the selected game is greater than the
   prize total related to each of the other games.
20 In an embodiment, each of the games is different.
   In an embodiment, each of the different games has a
   different volatility.
25 In an embodiment, the method comprises carrying out at
   least one of the plurality of games by conducting a series
   of game rounds.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises carrying out a
30 plurality of game rounds for each of the games.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises carrying out the
   same number of game rounds for each game.
35 In an embodiment, the method comprises determining an
   outcome of each game by monitoring each game for
   occurrence of one or more designated game events.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 8
   In an embodiment, the method each of the games comprises a
   spinning reel game, each game round comprises a spin of
   the reels, the designated event is occurrence of one or
 5 more designated symbols in the symbols which are the
   outcome of each spin and the outcome of each game is the
   total number of designated symbols occurring across the
   game rounds of each game.
10 In an embodiment, the comparison comprises determining
   whether the number of designated symbols in the selected
   game is greater than in respective ones of each of the
   non-selected games.
15 In an embodiment, the comparison comprises determining
   whether the number of designated symbols in the selected
   game is greater than a combined number of designated
   symbols in the non-selected games.
20 In an embodiment, the method comprises evaluating each
   game round of each game relative to a pay table of the
   respective game to determine any amount which payable
   based on the pay table and upon the award criterion being
   met, making an award corresponding to the total amount
25 payable in respect of each of the games.
   In an embodiment, there are a plurality of award criteria
   which may be satisfied and different awards correspond to
   different criteria.
30
   In an embodiment, the method comprises making an award
   corresponding to the total amount payable in respect of
   the player selected game upon a second award criteria
   being met.
35
   In an embodiment, the method comprises causing the
   plurality of game displays to be displayed in response to
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                      - 9
    a trigger condition being met.
    In an embodiment, the trigger condition is one or more of:
                an occurrence of a specific symbol or symbols;
  5             a random occurrence related to turnover or time;
                a machine event;
                a trigger received from an external device;
                a system event;
                a condition initiated by an operator;
10              a decision by a player; or
                an additional bet by a player.
    In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer
    program code which when executed implements the above
15  methods.
    In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a tangible
    computer readable storage medium comprising the program
    code.
20
    Brief Description of the Drawings
    An embodiment of the invention will now be described in
    relation to the following drawings in which:
25
    Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a
    gaming system;
    Figure 2 is a perspective view of a gaming machine;
30
    Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components
    of a gaming machine;
    Figure 4 is a block diagram representing the structure of
35  a memory;
    Figure 5 is a diagram schematic of a networked gaming
    10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                              - 10
   system;
   Figure 6 is a further block diagram of the gaming system;
 5 Figure 7 is a flowchart of an embodiment;
   Figures 8A and 8B are examples showing how the video
   display is modified to display plural game displays.
10 Detailed Description
   The embodiment provides a gaming system with a game
   controller                  arranged to provide a game where during at
   least some instances of game play, for example subsequent
15 to a trigger condition being met, the player is offered a
   plurality games to choose from.                   The games are then played
   concurrently in separate game displays and an award is
   made to the player if an award criteria is satisfied, for
   example if their selected game has a better outcome than
20 the non-selected games.                   The player can select one of the
   games by selecting one of the game displays, for example
   by touching the game display if the display incorporates a
   touch screen. In some embodiments, the player may receive
   different awards depending on the outcome of the
25 comparison of the selected game and the non-selected
   game(s).                 For example, the player may receive an award
   corresponding to the award the player would have received
   from play of each of the plurality of games if the
   selected game compares favourably to the non-selected
30 game(s) and only the award for the selected game if the
   game does not compare favourably.
   In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
   wherein all or most components required for implementing
35 the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                               - 11
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
   and some of the components required for implementing the
   game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.
 5 For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client"
   architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
10 executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
15 However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.                    For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.                    For example,
20 the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on.                    Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
25
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has several
   core components.                    At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1.                    The player interface is
30 arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions and play the game.
35 Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                            - 12
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54, a game play
   mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions, and a speaker 58 for outputting sound
   effects and the like.
 5
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
10 display.                 Typically, the game play instructions are stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:                a
15 microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
20 machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2.                 The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a video display 14 on
   which is displayed representations of a game 16 that can
   be played by a player.                 A mid-trim 20 of the gaming
   machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a
25 player to interact with the gaming machine, in particular
   during game play.                 The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit
   input mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin
   input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.                 Other credit
   input mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
30 reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.            A player marketing module may be provided having a
   reading device may also be provided for the purpose of
   reading a player tracking device, for example as part of a
   loyalty program.                 The player tracking device may be in the
35 form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
   medium capable of being read by the reading device.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                                - 13
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.                     Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
 5 panel 29 of the console 12.                     A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
10 display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.                Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit.                     The top box 26 may also include a display,
   for example a video display unit, which may be of the same
15 type as the display 14, or of a different type.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
20
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102.                     Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
25 Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
30 The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.                     The input/output interface 105 and/or the
35 peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
   own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                            - 14
   devices.                 A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers for use by the processor 102.                 Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
   random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
 5
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, buttons
   and/or a touch screen 107, a card and/or ticket reader
10 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input
   mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.                 Additional
   hardware may be included as part of the gaming machine
   100, or hardware may be omitted as required for the
   specific implementation.
15
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
20 to a central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
25 an exemplary memory 103.                 The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.                 The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.                 The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
30 some system or game related code.                 The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
35
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                                - 15
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
 5 alternative embodiment.                     The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.                     The gaming machines 202 provide a player
10 operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
   simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.                     While banks 203 of two gaming
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
15 or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.                     The displays 204 may, for example, be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
20 The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
25 In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game.            With this embodiment, as both the game server and
   the gaming device implement part of the game, they
30 collectively provide a game controller.                     A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.                     Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
35 game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to carry out
   the accounting in respect of the Jackpot game.                     A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                            - 16
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
 5 provides only the player interface.                 With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller.                 The
   gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
10 display.                 In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
   that provides a player interface operable using standard
   computer input and output components.
15 Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.                 An administrator terminal
20 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
25 network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
30 server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.                 For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.                 For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
35 Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.                 Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of games servers could be
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                              -   17
   provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
 5 Detailed Description
   The game controller 60 of the embodiment is shown in more
   detail in Figure 6.                   It will apparent that the processor
   62 implements a number of modules, for example random
10 number generator module 621 by executing software
   routines.                   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   not all modules need be implemented by processor 62.                      For
   example, the random number generator module 621 could be
   implemented by a separate circuit or by a random number
15 generator server.
   In the embodiment, both base and feature games are
   spinning reel type games. The player operates the game
   play mechanism 56 to specify a wager and hence the win
20 entitlement which will be evaluated for this play of the
   game and initiate a play of the game. Persons skilled in
   the art will appreciate that a player's win entitlement
   will vary from game to game dependent on player
   selections. In most spinning reel games, it is typical for
25 the player's entitlement to be affected by the amount they
   wager and selections they make                    (i.e. the nature of the
   wager) .               For example, a player's     win entitlement may be
   based on how many lines they play in each game -                    e.g. a
   minimum of one line up to the maximum number of lines
30 allowed by the game                  (noting that not all permutations of
   win lines may be available for selection) and how much
   they wager per line.                   Such win lines are typically formed
   by a combination of symbol display positions, one from
   each reel, the symbol display positions being located
35 relative to one another such that they form a line.
   In many games, the player's win entitlement is not
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 18
   strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
   example, "scatter" pays are awarded independently of a
   players selection of pay lines and are an inherent part of
   the win entitlement.
 5
   Persons skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other
   embodiments, the player may obtain a win entitlement by
   selecting a number of reels to play and an amount to wager
   per reel. Such games are marketed under the trade name
10 "Reel Power" by Aristocrat Leisure Industries Pty Ltd. The
   selection of the reel means that each displayed symbol of
   the reel can be substituted for a symbol at one or more
   designated display positions. In other words, all symbols
   displayed at symbol display positions corresponding to a
15 selected reel can be used to form symbol combinations with
   symbols displayed at a designated, symbol display
   positions of the other reels. For example, if there are
   five reels and three symbol display positions for each
   reel such that the symbol display positions comprise three
20 rows of five symbol display positions, the symbols
   displayed in the centre row are used for non-selected
   reels. As a result, the total number of ways to win is
   determined by multiplying the number of active display
   positions of each reels, the active display positions
25 being all display positions of each selected reel and the
   designated display position of the non-selected reels. As
   a result for five reels and fifteen display positions
   there are 243 ways to win.
30 The game controller 60 begins play by conducting a base
   game. The base game is a part of the game which is carried
   out each time the player makes a wager, typically
   irrespective of the wager, whereas other parts of the game
   will only be carried out occasionally for example if a
35 trigger condition is met.
   The base game controller 622 has an outcome generator 622A
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                              - 19
   which uses the random number generator 621 to generate an
   outcome for display on display 54 under control of display
   controller 623.                   In the embodiment, the base game data 641
   defines the rules of a spinning reel game including the
 5 symbols which may be selected an accordingly defines a set
   of virtual spinning reels.                   Accordingly the outcome
   generator 622A selects, for example by selecting stop
   positions for each reel, symbols for display on display
   54.         The outcome evaluator 622B takes the player's winning
10 entitlement, e.g. the lines or reels they are playing, and
   compares these against the selected symbols and the prize
   table          (pay table) to determine what awards to make          (if
   any).            Any awards are added to the win meter 644A of meter
   data 644.                   When the player commences another play of the
15 game the balance of the win meter will be transferred to
   the credit meter 644B.                   The win meter can also be
   transferred to the credit meter in other circumstances
   including when the player indicates they wish to cash out.
20 In the embodiment, the game controller has a trigger
   monitor 622C which monitors game play to determine that a
   trigger condition 643 has occurred and hence that the
   feature games should commence. In the embodiment, the
   trigger condition is the occurrence of specific symbols in
25 the game.
   In other embodiments, the feature games can be triggered
   by any of the known methods including but not limited to:
               a random occurrence related to turnover or time;
30             a machine event;
               a trigger received from an external device;
               a system event;
               a condition initiated by an operator; or
               a decision by a player.
35
   Eligibility for the feature can include the following:
               always available;
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                                 - 20
               available whenever a special symbol(s) appears in the
   window;
               a player can choose to purchase the feature; or
               a player can choose to purchase the feature subject
 5 to a threshold condition.
   Once the trigger monitor 622C has determined that a
   trigger condition 643 has been met, control is passed to
   the feature controller 624.                      The feature controller causes
10 display controller to generate the plural display module
   623A.            Accordingly, the display changes from the display
   shown in Figure 8A where, in an example, fifteen symbols
   are displayed in five columns and three rows corresponding
   to five reels 820 in display area 810 on display 54 to an
15 alternative view where four smaller display areas 810A to
   810D are provided on the display.                       In the example, each of
   the feature games is to be a spinning reel game as
   described above in the form of a different number of free
   games to be provided to the player using the same rules as
20 the base game (that is where a plurality of game rounds
   are conducted, each involving the reels being spun and the
   selected symbols evaluated).                       For each game a different
   multiplier will apply.                      Accordingly feature game data 645
   specifies data for each feature, namely Feature 1 645A,
25 Feature 2 645B, Feature 3 645C, and Feature 4 645D which
   specifies the number of games and the multiplier which
   will apply.                      In an example, feature game 1 is 20 free
   games with no multiplier; feature game 2 is 15 free games
   with prizes doubled, feature game 3 is 10 free games with
30 prizes tripled and the feature game 4 is 5 free games with
   prizes quadrupled.
   Information regarding these games is displayed to the
   player in the different display areas so the player can
35 select one of the feature games.                       For example, by pressing
   a button of game play mechanism 56 associated with the
   respective one of the features or touching one of the
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                       - 21
   display areas.
   Accordingly, the feature controller includes as a feature
   selector 627A for receiving the player selection.            Once
 5 the player selection is received the feature selector 627A
   causes the plural display module 623A to alter the display
   54 to highlight which of the display areas has been
   selected and hence which of the games has been selected,
   for example by greying out the non-selected games or
10 providing a coloured border around the selected game. The
   feature controller 624 then commences each of the feature
   games.
   In alternative embodiment, or if a player does not make a
15 selection within a defined time period, the feature
   selector 627A, randomly selects one of the features           (using
   random number generator 621).
   Once the feature commences each of feature outcome
20 generators 625A, 625B, 625C and 625D independently
   generates game outcomes using values obtained from random
   number generator 621.            As illustrated in Figure 6, each of
   these is independently evaluated by feature outcome
   evaluators 626A, 626B, 626C and 626D.            This includes each
25 feature outcome evaluator 626 maintaining a total of the
   awards won for the relevant series of games.
   After all of the feature games have been completed, the
   total awards are provided to the outcome comparator 627
30 which determines whether to make an additional award to
   the player based on the comparison rule data 645E.            In one
   example, the comparison rule data 645 specifies that the
   player receives an additional prize if the feature they
   selected has the highest prize outcome in credits.            The
35 player also receives the award for the feature game they
   selected. Both awards are added to win meter 644A.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                               - 22
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate the number of
   other embodiments are possible, for example, the
   comparison rule data 645E could specify a series of
   different awards depending on the ranking of the feature
 5 game (e.g. prizes for first and second place).                    Further,
   there might be some outcomes in which the player loses the
   awards from the feature game they played, for example, if
   their feature game produced the lowest score.                    Other
   embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the
10 art.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that while in
   the embodiment the plural feature games are shown as all
   being spinning reel type games, however the games could be
15 different.                    For example, one game could be a spinning reel
   type game, another game could be a card game and a third
   game could be a dice game.
   Desirably, each of the games should have similar or the
20 same return to player such that there is no advantage to
   making a particular selection but in some embodiments it
   may be desirable to have different returns to players.
   In the embodiment, the plural games are shown as being
25 conducted as a feature game in response to a trigger
   condition being met such that a player only makes a
   selection in plays of the game where the feature is
   triggered.                    However, in some embodiments the plural games
   may be conducted in each game such that the player always
30 makes a selection.                    In such embodiments, the player may be
   required to obtain eligibility, for example by placing an
   ante-bet or playing all lines.
   Further, in the above embodiment the same evaluation is
35 described as being applied to each of the feature games.
   In other embodiments, different evaluations could be
   applied depending on the game.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                              - 23
   The method of an embodiment is shown in Figure 7.                   The
   method 700 involves receiving a wager 710 and conducting a
   base game 720.                   It is determined 730 whether a trigger
 5 condition is met.                   When no trigger is met, the game waits
   on a further trigger.                   When a trigger occurs, the plural
   display module 623A alters the display 54 to display
   multiple feature games.                   A player selection is received
   750 and all the feature games are conducted 760.                   It is
10 then determined 770 whether the player selected game has
   the best outcome and if this is the case an additional
   award 780 is made for making that selection.
   In another embodiment, the gaming system conducts four
15 different spinning reel games and each of the outcome
   evaluators 626 for occurrence of a designated event in the
   game to determine an outcome of the game. The outcome
   evaluators 626 also monitor what awards are made in each
   of the games so that these awards can be used as the basis
20 of the award made in response to the comparison of the
   outcomes of the selected and non-selected games. As
   described above, the player selects a game and the game
   controller carries out a plurality of game rounds. In this
   example, the number of game rounds is the same for each
25 game.
   In the embodiment, the designated event is the occurrence
   of a designated symbol specific to the spinning reel game
   such that in the different games there are different
30 symbols. For example, the four symbols may represent four
   competing characters. The outcome evaluators 626 keep a
   running total of the number of the designated symbols
   which have occurred for the respective game as each of the
   game rounds is conducted. At the same time, total awards
35 for each game are kept. That is, in each game round for
   each game, the selected symbols which are displayed are
   evaluated:                  a) for the occurrence of designated symbols;
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                                - 24
   and b) by comparison with the pay table of the game to
   determine what award in credits applies to the selected
   symbols.
 5 In the embodiment the comparison of outcomes is conducted
   after all of the game rounds have been conducted. The
   comparison is between the total number of designated
   symbols in the selected game over the plurality of game
   rounds and the total number of designated symbols in the
10 non-selected games. In the embodiment, the player wins an
   award corresponding to the total award from each of the
   games upon the number of symbols in the player's game
   being greater than the total number of symbols in each of
   the three non-selected games. Otherwise, the player wins
15 the award from the selected game.                     Viewed from another
   perspective, the player can win a bonus award
   corresponding to the awards from the three non-selected
   games.
20 It will be appreciated that other comparisons can be made
   by the game controller 60 so as to apply alternative award
   criteria. For example, the award criteria could be that
   the player's selected game results in the greatest number
   of symbols or a function of the symbols which occur in the
25 non-selected games. For example, better than the average
   or the other games, twice the highest total in the other
   games, twice the average in the other games, more than N
   symbols greater than the next highest total etc.
30 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that other game
   events could be monitored for the purpose of subsequent
   comparison, such as the number of a particular combination
   of symbols,                    the number of winning combinations, the number
   of a plurality of different designated symbols etc.
35
   A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that the
   games in the plural display areas can be compared in
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                             - 25
   different ways.                  For example, rather than the credit
   prizes being compared as described above the game which
   returns the largest individual prize in any one of the
   series games could be declared the winning game outcome.
 5 In another embodiment, the number of a certain types of
   symbols collected during a game could be used to determine
   a winning outcome.                  Various other modifications will be
   apparent to a person skilled in the art.
10 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a feature
   game involves some additional element of game play which
   only occurs when a trigger condition is met. Types of
   feature games include:                 those where a series of free game
   events are awarded such as free games or re-spins                  (where
15 some reels are held while others are re-spun); games where
   the symbols on the reel are changed; and "second screen"
   games where game play is totally different to the base
   game, for example where the player makes selections in a
   "pick a box type" game.
20
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the gaming system and that at least
   part of the method will be implemented digitally by a
   processor. Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate
25 that the method could be embodied in program code. The
   program code could be supplied in a number of ways, for
   example on a computer readable storage medium, such as a
   disc or a memory                 (for example, that could replace part of
   memory 103) or as a data signal                 (for example, by
30 transmitting it from a server).                 Persons skilled in the
   art, will appreciate that program code provides a series
   of instructions executable by the processor.
   It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
35 invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular it will be apparent that certain features of
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 26
   embodiments of the invention can be employed to form
   further embodiments.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
 5 description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
    "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
10 not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication
   is referred to herein, such reference does not constitute
15 an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any
   other country.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                            - 27
   CLAIMS:
   1.          A gaming system comprising:
               a display; and
 5             a game controller arranged to:
                            cause the display to display a plurality of game
   displays in which a plurality of games will be carried
   out;
                            receive a player selection of a game of the
10 plurality of games;
                            carry out the plurality of games in their
   respective game displays; and
                            make an award upon a comparison of an outcome of
   the player selected game with an outcome of a non-selected
15 game or games satisfying an award criterion.
   2.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
   award criterion is that a prize total related to the
   selected game is greater than the prize total related to
20 each of the other games.
   3.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
   wherein each of the games is different.
25 4.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 3, wherein each
   of the different games has a different volatility.
   5.          A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   4, wherein the game controller carries out at least one of
30 the plurality of games by conducting a series of game
   rounds.
   6.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the
   game controller carries out a plurality of game rounds for
35 each of the games.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 28
   7.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the
   game controller carries out the same number of game rounds
   for each game.
 5 8.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7,
   wherein the game controller is arranged to determine an
   outcome of each game by monitoring each game for
   occurrence of one or more designated game events.
10 9.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 8, wherein each
   of the games comprises a spinning reel game, each game
   round comprises a spin of the reels, the designated event
   is occurrence of one or more designated symbols in the
   symbols which are the outcome of each spin and the outcome
15 of each game is the total number of designated symbols
   occurring across the game rounds of each game.
   10.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the
   comparison is to determine whether the number of
20 designated symbols in the selected game is greater than in
   respective ones of each of the non-selected games.
   11.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the
   comparison is to determine whether the number of
25 designated symbols in the selected game is greater than a
   combined number of designated symbols in the non-selected
   games.
   12.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
30 11, wherein the game controller is further arranged to
   evaluate each game round of each game relative to a pay
   table of the respective game to determine any amount which
   payable based on the pay table and upon the award
   criterion being met, make an award corresponding to the
35 total amount payable in respect of each of the games.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 29
   13.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   12, wherein there are a plurality of award criteria which
   may be satisfied and different awards correspond to
   different criteria.
 5
   14.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 13 when dependent
   on claim 12, wherein the game controller is arranged to
   make an award corresponding to the total amount payable in
   respect of the player selected game upon a second award
10 criteria being met.
   15.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   14, wherein the game controller is arranged to cause the
   plurality of game displays to be displayed in response to
15 a trigger condition being met.
   16.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the
   trigger condition is one or more of:
               an occurrence of a specific symbol or symbols;
20             a random occurrence related to turnover or time;
               a machine event;
               a trigger received from an external device;
               a system event;
               a condition initiated by an operator;
25             a decision by a player; or
               an additional bet by a player.
   17.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   16, comprising a memory and a processor arranged to
30 implement the game controller by executing program
   instructions stored in the memory.
   18.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   17, comprising a game play mechanism operable to place a
35 wager, to initiate play and make the player selection of a
   game display.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 30
   19.         A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller arranged to:
               cause a display to display a plurality of game
   displays in which a plurality of games will be carried
 5 out;
               receive a player selection of a game;
               carry out the plurality of games and cause them to be
   displayed in their respective game displays; and
               make an award upon a comparison of an outcome of the
10 player selected game with an outcome of a non-selected
   game or games satisfying an award criterion.
   20.         A game controller as claimed in claim 19, comprising
   a display controller for controlling the display to
15 display a plurality of game displays.
   21.         A game controller as claimed in claim 19 or claim 20,
   comprising an award comparator for comparing the outcome
   of the player selected game with an outcome of the non
20 selected game or games to determine whether they satisfy
   the award criterion.
   22.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 19
   to 21, wherein the award criteria is that a prize total
25 related to the selected game is greater than the prize
   total related to each of the other games.
   23.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 19
   to 22, wherein each of the games is different.
30
   24.         A game controller as claimed in claim 23, wherein
   each of the different games has a different volatility.
   25.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 19
35 to 24, wherein the game controller carries out at least
   one of the plurality of games by conducting a series of
   game rounds.
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 31
   26.         A game controller as claimed in claim 25, wherein the
   game controller carries out a plurality of game rounds for
   each of the games.
 5
   27.         A game controller as claimed in claim 26, wherein the
   game controller carries out the same number of game rounds
   for each game.
10 28.         A game controller as claimed in claim 26 or claim 27,
   comprising at least one outcome evaluator arranged to
   determine an outcome of each game by monitoring each game
   for occurrence of one or more designated game events.
15 29.         A game controller as claimed in claim 28, wherein
   each of the games comprises a spinning reel game, each
   game round comprises a spin of the reels, the designated
   event is occurrence of one or more designated symbols in
   the symbols which are the outcome of each spin and the
20 outcome of each game is the total number of designated
   symbols occurring across the game rounds of each game.
   30.         A game controller as claimed in claim 29, wherein the
   comparison is to determine whether the number of
25 designated symbols in the selected game is greater than in
   respective ones of each of the non-selected games.
   31.         A game controller as claimed in claim 29, wherein the
   comparison is to determine whether the number of
30 designated symbols in the selected game is greater than a
   combined number of designated symbols in the non-selected
   games.
   32.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 26
35 to 31, wherein the outcome evaluator is further arranged
   to evaluate each game round of each game relative to a pay
   table of the respective game to determine any amount which
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 32
   payable based on the pay table and upon the award
   criterion being met, make an award corresponding to the
   total amount payable in respect of each of the games.
 5 33.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 31
   to 32, wherein there are a plurality of award criteria
   which may be satisfied and different awards correspond to
   different criteria.
10 34.         A game controller as claimed in claim 33 when
   dependent on claim 32, arranged to make an award
   corresponding to the total amount payable in respect of
   the player selected game upon a second award criteria
   being met.
15
   35.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 19
   to 34, arranged to cause the plurality of game displays to
   be displayed in response to a trigger condition being met.
20 36.         A game controller as claimed in claim 35, wherein the
   trigger condition is one or more of:
               an occurrence of a specific symbol or symbols;
               a random occurrence related to turnover or time;
               a machine event;
25             a trigger received from an external device;
               a system event;
               a condition initiated by an operator;
               a decision by a player; or
               an additional bet by a player.
30
   37.         A method of electronic gaming comprising:
               causing an electronic display to display a plurality
   of game displays in which a plurality of games will be
   carried out;
35             receiving a player selection of a game of the
   plurality of games;
               carrying out the plurality of games in their
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                     - 33
    respective game displays; and
                making an award upon a comparison of an outcome of
    the player selected game with an outcome of a non-selected
    game or games satisfying an award criterion.
  5
    38.         A method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the award
    criterion is that a prize total related to the selected
    game is greater than the prize total related to each of
    the other games.
10
    39.         A method as claimed in claim 37 or claim 38, wherein
    each of the games is different.
    40.         A method as claimed in claim 39, wherein each of the
15  different games has a different volatility.
    41.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 37 to 40,
    comprising carrying out at least one of the plurality of
    games by conducting a series of game rounds.
20
    42.         A method as claimed in claim 41, comprising carrying
    out a plurality of game rounds for each of the games.
    43.         A method as claimed in claim 42, comprising carrying
25  out the same number of game rounds for each game.
    44.         A method as claimed in claim 42 or claim 43,
    comprising determining an outcome of each game by
    monitoring each game for occurrence of one or more
30  designated game events.
    45.         A method as claimed in claim 44, wherein each of the
    games comprises a spinning reel game, each game round
    comprises a spin of the reels, the designated event is
35  occurrence of one or more designated symbols in the
    symbols which are the outcome of each spin and the outcome
    of each game is the total number of designated symbols
    10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                    - 34
   occurring across the game rounds of each game.
   46.         A method as claimed in claim 45, wherein the
   comparison comprises determining whether the number of
 5 designated symbols in the selected game is greater than in
   respective ones of each of the non-selected games.
   47.         A method as claimed in claim 45, wherein the
   comparison comprises determining whether the number of
10 designated symbols in the selected game is greater than a
   combined number of designated symbols in the non-selected
   games.
   48.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 42 to 47,
15 comprising evaluating each game round of each game
   relative to a pay table of the respective game to
   determine any amount which payable based on the pay table
   and upon the award criterion being met, making an award
   corresponding to the total amount payable in respect of
20 each of the games.
   49.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 37 to 48,
   wherein there are a plurality of award criteria which may
   be satisfied and different awards correspond to different
25 criteria.
   50.         A method as claimed in claim 49 when dependent on
   claim 48, comprising making an award corresponding to the
   total amount payable in respect of the player selected
30 game upon a second award criteria being met.
   51.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 37 to 50,
   comprising causing the plurality of game displays to be
   displayed in response to a trigger condition being met.
35
   10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

                                     - 35
    52.         A method as claimed in claim 51, wherein the trigger
    condition is one or more of:
                an occurrence of a specific symbol or symbols;
                a random occurrence related to turnover or time;
  5             a machine event;
                a trigger received from an external device;
                a system event;
                a condition initiated by an operator;
                a decision by a player; or
lo              an additional bet by a player.
    53.         Computer program code which when executed implements
    the method of any one of claims 37 to 52.
15  54.         A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
    computer program code of claim 53.
    10118285_1(GHMaters) P82351.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
