                                    ABSTRACT
         The present invention comprises both meloxicam and xylazine
containing compositions and methods of their administration in the field of
veterinary pharmaceuticals. A meloxicam and xylazine formulation is provided
which is adapted for oral administration. A method is also provided to form a
combination meloxicam and xyalzine formulation from meloxicam and xylazine
formulations including directions as to concentrations and dosages for sheep
and cattle, the target species for the formulations.

                                               113
                    Comparison Graph IV, IM and ORAL Administration
          3:000
           7000
     c    6000
       2E5000
       E
          4000                                                            0PAI
    E E   3000                                                        +-N
          1000
              0
                  0      1000      2000      3000     4000      s000
                                   Time (minutes)
Fig. 1 Meloxicam plasma concentration vs time for 0.5mg meloxicam/kg
bw dose administered via IM, IV and Oral routes in sheep
                    Comparison Graph IV, IM and ORAL Administration
         2000
    0    15
                0       1000      2000       3000     40010     sooo0
         -500
                                  Time (minutes)
Fig. 2 Closer view of IM, Oral curves in Fig. 1(a)

                                    AUSTRALIA
                                 Patents Act, 1990
                                    ORIGINAL
                             COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
 APPLICANT/S:                         Troy Laboratories Pty Ltd
                                      (ACN 000 283 769)
 INVENTOR:                             PIPPIA, Guiseppe
ADDRESS FOR SERVICE:                  Peter Maxwell and Associates
                                      Level 6
                                      60 Pitt Street
                                      SYDNEY NSW 2000
INVENTION TITLE:                     COMBINATION OF MELOXICAM AND
                                     XYLAZINE THERAPY IN ANIMALS
DIVISIONAL OF                       AU - 2013 252 491- 26 April 2013
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best
method of performing it known to us:
                                         1
m:\docs\20131 115\514450.doc

                                               1(a)
        COMBINATION OF MELOXICAM AND XYLAZINE THERAPY IN ANIMALS
      TECHNICAL FIELD
                    The present invention is concerned with a formulation for
      providing potent, prolonged analgesia to livestock undergoing surgery or
  5  surgical husbandry procedures. More specifically the therapy proposed in the
     present invention comprises the use of a combination of an a2-agonist and non
     steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAID) absorbed systemically but
     administered by oral routes to achieve potent analgesia within minutes of
     administration and extending to in excess of 24 hours.
 10  BACKGROUND ART
             There are significant animal welfare issues associated with animal
     husbandry procedures performed on livestock (primarily, but not limited to
     cattle, sheep, pigs, deer) without analgesia. Pain mediation in livestock during
     and after surgery or surgical husbandry procedures is also desirable to reduce
15   stress and subsequent loss of weight and condition, normally associated with
     an animal subjected to chronic pain without analgesia. The desirable solution
     is a cost-effective, efficient, once-only administration of an analgesic agent that
     provides rapid onset of analgesia for surgical procedures, and then extends the
     chronic pain relief to in excess of 24 hours.
20           Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs), comprising several
     classes, are an important component of the veterinarian's armamentarium for
    analgesia in many species, livestock and companion animals alike. Traditional
     NSAIDs used in veterinary practice achieve a reduction in inflammatory
    response by non-selective inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX). Cyclo
25  oxygenase is the principle enzyme catalysing the arachadonic pathway in order
    to produce prostanoids. Prostanoids are a subclass of eicosanoids consisting
    of the prostaglandins (mediators of inflammatory and anaphylactic reactions),

                                              2
     the thromboxanes (mediators of vasoconstriction) and the prostacyclins (active
     in the resolution phase of inflammation). The prostanoids are extremely potent
     mediators of a diverse group of physiological processes.
             There are two main isoforms of cyclo-oxygenase, COX-1 and COX-2.
  5  COX-2 is induced by inflammatory stimuli in pathophysiological conditions. The
     most important adverse effects of inhibition of the COX-1 isoenzyme may be
    evident in the gastrointestinal tract (specifically, gastric ulceration and right
    dorsal colitis) and the kidneys (specifically, renal papillary damage). NSAIDs
    that selectively inhibit COX-2 rather than the COX-1 isoenzyme, thereby
 10 minimising the impact on the homeostatic effect of prostanoids preferentially
    synthesised by COX-1, are desirable.
            Many NSAIDS can and have been used effectively on livestock, but
    differences in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters between
    classes of NSAIDs, specific NSAIDs and even between different formulations
15  containing the same NSAID may contribute to variances in pharmacology,
    onset and likelihood of pain mediation from the point of surgery extending for
    any particular period. It was expected that NSAID therapy alone, is unlikely to
    produce near-immediate pain relief and extend that relief past 24hours,
    desirable for the livestock industries where large volumes of animals require
20  surgical procedures, but cannot feasibly be managed in any intensive form.
            Meloxicam is of the enolic acid group of NSAIDs. It has been
    demonstrated to have superior COX-2 preferential inhibition when compared to
    other commonly used NSAIDs. The absorption, distribution, metabolism and
    elimination has been described in rats, humans, dogs, pigs, apes and cattle.
25  The pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of meloxicam in cattle, sheep, goats
    and pigs administered intramuscular, subcutaneous or intravenous injections
    has been described previously, but never following oral administration.

                                                 3
               a2-agonists are a class of agents that produce a sedative-analgesic
       effect by activating a2-receptors located within the central nervous system.
       Xylazine and medetomidine are two commonly used a2-agonists used in
       veterinary practice, although the use is very limited within the livestock industry.
  5   a2-agonists are principally used as sedation agents and precursors to
      anaesthesia, often in combination with additional anaesthetic agents. Xylazine
      induces dose-dependent sedation and central nervous depression. It has been
      reported previously that xylazine exhibits analgesic properties, similar to
      analgesia produced by opioids, but without the side effects. The
 10   pharmacodynamics or pharmacokinetics or analgesic efficacy of xylazine
      following oral administration to livestock has not been investigated or reported.
              Currently, a therapeutic regimen comprising NSAID and a2-agonist could
      be achieved using analgesic agents administered parentally as two separate
      products. In a farm situation, where large numbers of livestock are involved,
15   this presents additional challenges such as dual administration leading to
     inefficient double handling of livestock, also increasing the risk of injury to
     animals and handlers, calculation of different dose weights and volumes by lay
     personnel, which renders this approach impractical in many situations.
              It is desirable that combination therapy be provided in a single
20   administration of two or more of the said analgesics, immediately reducing the
    dosage and administration issues and some occupational health and safety
     risks to handlers. However, when drugs of different classes are combined,
    there can be issues of compatibility, degradation, poor solubility, poor stability,
    poor or modified absorption, bioavailability, potentiating effects and suitability to
25  the administration route.
             The majority of systemic analgesic drug delivery in livestock is
    administered parenterally, primarily by intra-muscular injection. Intravenous and

                                                4
      subcutaneous injections may also be options for certain drugs. This, more
      often than not, reflects a lack of availability of other dosage forms suitable for
     administration to various livestock species in large numbers. It is concerning,
     but all too common, that administration of parenteral drugs in a field setting is
  5  performed by lay personnel. This is a direct contradiction of on-farm risk
     mitigation strategies, and opens up avenues for litigation for both veterinarians
     supplying the drugs, and farm owners and contractors responsible for
     personnel administering the drugs. Without sufficient control over personnel
     administering the drug or sufficient understanding of the drug administration
 10  procedure, there is the added potential for livestock to be inadvertently over
     dosed or receive multiple doses that may have severe chemical residue, safety
     and toxicity implications.
             A method to reduce the risks of administration for users and target
     species is desirable. With this in mind, it is reasoned that the risks associated
 15 with systemic drug delivery to various livestock species by injection can be
    significantly reduced by delivering the analgesic agents by oral administration,
    where certain drugs can be effectively absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract
    following ingestion, or absorbed through the oral mucosa lining the oral cavity.
    Oral mucosal absorption (oral transmucosal) is primarily through, but not limited
20  to, the cheek (buccal) or floor of the mouth (sub-lingual) because these regions
    are most permeable. The oral cavity is highly vascularised, and drugs
    absorbed through the oral mucosa enter systemic circulation, effectively by
    passing the gastrointestinal tract and first-pass metabolism in the liver. For
    some drugs, oral mucosal absorption can lead to rapid onset of action,
25  something desirable where analgesia is required for surgical husbandry
    procedures in the field, where the time between administration and surgery can
    be optimized.

                                                 5
             Furthermore, doses of the formulations detailed in the present invention
      can be administered efficiently and comfortably to livestock, thereby
     dramatically reducing the occurrence of injection site lesions, stock losses from
     secondary infection, and the risk of injury to personnel handling livestock.
  5          It is an object of the invention to provide a combination of two or more
     analgesic agents in combination therapy for the treatment of pain, more
     specifically an NSAID and a2-agonist, more specifically meloxicam and xylazine
     or meloxicam.
     DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION
 10         According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a
     pharmaceutical composition comprising a NSAID or a salt or derivative thereof,
     in combination with an 02-agonist or a salt or a derivative thereof,
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, as well as any one or more of a number of
    desired excipients.
15          Preferably the NSAID is meloxicam.
            More preferably the a2-agonist is xylazine.
            Still more preferably the composition is formulated for oral
    administration.
            Preferably the meloxicam is present as a milled solid and the resultant
20  composition is a liquid suspension or gel.
           Alternatively and more preferably, the meloxicam is dissolved and the
    resultant composition is a solution or gel.
            In a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of using a
    pharmaceutical composition comprising orally administering to a subject
25  animal, a pharmaceutical composition comprising a NSAID or a salt or
    derivative thereof, in combination with an 02-agonist or a salt or a derivative

                                               6
     thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, as well as any one or more of a
     number of desired excipients.
             More preferably the method includes the administration of a
     pharmaceutical composition that is comprised of both meloxicam and xylazine.
  5          Still more preferably the subjects of the present method are sheep or
     cattle.
             Even more preferably the method comprises administering to a sheep
     orally between 0.1 mg/kg - 0.2 mg/kg of xylazine and 1.0 mg/kg of meloxicam.
             Alternatively the method comprises administering to cattle orally 0.1
 10  mg/kg - 0.2 mg/kg of xylazine and 0.5 mg/kg of meloxicam.
             Preferably administering the composition orally involves administration
    via the oral transmucosal route.
             Preferably the meloxicam containing formulation is formulated as a gel
    containing dissolved meloxicam.
 15          Preferably, the co-administration includes the step of mixing the
    meloxicam containing formulation and xylazine containing formulations before
    administering the mixture.
             Preferably the mixture is formed by mixing the constituent formulations
    in ratios such that the resulting mixture has a concentration of meloxicam at
20  between 9.52mg/mI-9.8mg/ml meloxicam and between 0.95 to 0.49mg/ml of
    xylazine.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    Fig. 1 Meloxicam plasma concentration vs time for 0.5mg meloxicam/kg body
            weight ("bw") dose administered via IM, IV and Oral routes in sheep
25          assayed in Example 4.
    Fig. 2 Closer view of IM, Oral curves in Fig. 1.

                                              7
    Fig. 3 Xylazine plasma concentration vs time for 0.2mg xylazine/kg bw dose
             administered via IM, IV and Oral routes in sheep assayed in Example 4.
    Fig. 4 Closer view of IM, Oral curves in Fig. 3.
    Fig. 5 Meloxicam plasma concentrations assayed in Example 5.
 5  MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
             For the purposes of the present specification, the use of the word gel is
   to be taken as a description of a liquid formulation or a formulation that is
   substantially liquid, that has a high viscosity that allows it to be deposited and
   retained in oral cavities of target animals. Similarly, for the purposes of this
10 specification, the use of the word oral in terms of routes of administration is to
   be taken as a reference to both oral administration (via swallowing and
   introduction via the gastrointestinal tract) and oral transmucosal delivery,
   unless otherwise indicated.
   Example 1 - 5mq/mL meloxicam suspension with dissolved 2mq/mL xylazine
15 (as hydrochloride) for oral administration
            The following ingredients are used to make the meloxicam/xylazine oral
   suspension of the present example.
            Ingredient           Amount % wlv
    Meloxicam                         0.50%
    Xylazine HCI                      0.23%
    Glycerol                          12.0%
    Xylitol                           14.0%
    Sodium Benzoate                  0.10%
    Citric Acid                      0.14%
    NaH2PO4.2H20                      1.54%
    Sodium Saccharin                 0.10%
   Xanthan Gum                       0.50%
    Sorbitol                         18.0%
   Water                                qs

                                                 8
                -Charge an appropriate vessel with 500g of water and commence
     stirring at medium speed.
               -To the water add the following in order: Citric Acid, Sodium Benzoate,
     NaH2PO4.2H20, Sodium saccharin, Xylazine HCI, Xylitol
  5            -To the above solution add the Xanthan gum, do this slowly while stirring
     and directly into the mixing vortex. Continue stirring until evenly dispersed.
              -To the bulk solution, add Glycerol and Sorbitol and continue stirring until
     the Xanthan is fully hydrated. To the bulk solution, introduce while mixing, the
     Meloxicam. Continue mixing until uniformly dispersed.
 10           -Make the product to volume, mix and homogenise using high shear until
    a uniform suspension is obtained
    Example 2 - 5mq/mL meloxicam/ 2mcq/mL xylazine (as hydrochloride) gel for
    buccal administration
              The following ingredients are used to make the meloxicam/xylazine gel
 15 of the present invention.
              Ingredient           Amount % w/v
    Meloxicam                           1.00%
    Xylazine HCI                        0.23%
    Meglumine                          0.75%
    Ethanol                             15.0%
    Natrosol HHX (HEC)                   1.0%
    Water                                 qs
             -Collect 830g of water in an appropriate vessel and commence stirring.
             -To the water add the Xylazine HCI, mix until dissolved.
             -To the bulk solution add the Meglumine and mix until dissolved.
            -To the bulk solution add the Meloxicam and mix until dissolved.
20          -To the bulk solution add the Ethanol and mix until uniform.
            -To the bulk solution, slowly add the Natrosol HHX. Continue stirring
    until the Natrosol HHX is fully hydrated and a clear gel is formed.
            -Make compounded product to volume and continue stirring until
    uniform.

                                              9
      Example 3 - Addition of a registered veterinary medicine containing 2%
      xylazine (as hydrochloride) to a 1% meloxicam oral gel
              In the present example, combination therapy is achieved by co
     administering meloxicam and xylazine in a single administration via the oral
  5   route, however, meloxicam and xylazine are not co-formulated but rather, are
     contained in separate formulations which are mixed prior to administration. It
     was not thought that the mixing of such formulations would result in a
     formulation that would contain both actives in dissolved form, be stable and
     able to be effectively administered to subject animals. Surprisingly however, the
 10  mixing of the meloxicam and xylazine containing formulations can be achieved
     in that a homogeneous and stable solution/gel results which can be
     administered to subject animals without the issues of instability and double
     handling of animals to treat with two separate injectable preparations. Further,
    the ratio of meloxicam and xylazine can be adjusted to achieve dose rates for
15  specific species or sizes.
             Provided below are the constituent formulations and instructions for their
    mixing.
    CONSTITUENT 1: 2% xylazine (as hydrochloride) solution for injection
    (Trade Name: ILIUM XYLAZIL-20)
            Ingredient           Amount % w/v
      Benzyl alcohol                    1.00
     Citric acid                        0.35
     Sodium chloride                    0.37
     Sodium citrate                     1.02
     Sodium
     metabisulphite                      0.1
     Xylazine
     hydrochloride                      2.33
     Water                            94.83
20  Steps for making constituent 1:

                                                 10
         1. Dissolve the xylazine hydrochloride, sodium citrate, citric acid, sodium
              chloride and sodium metabisulphite in WFI (water for injections).
        2. Add benzyl alcohol slowly and mix for 5 - 10 minutes.
        3. Adjust the pH to 4.5 - 5.5.
  5     4. Make to volume with WFI and mix for 5 minutes.
        5. Report to QC for sampling and approval.
        6. Filter sterilise the finished batch.
    CONSTITUENT 2: 1% meloxicam gel for oral/buccal administration where this
    formulation comprises the following constituents:
            Ingredient              Amount % w/v
     Brilliant Blue
     RM6735                              0.02%
     Meloxicam                           1.000%
     Propylene Glycol                   37.000%
     Monoethanolamine                    1.000%
     Benzyl Alcohol                      1.000%
     Natrosol HHX (HEC)                  1.000%
     Water                              62.500%
 10
    Steps to form Constituent 2:
             i) PHASE A
                     1. Collect the water in an appropriate vessel.
                     2. Add the Brilliant Blue to the water and mix until dissolved.
15                   3. Disperse the HEC in the 10% portion of propylene glycol and
                     add to the water.
            ii) PHASE B
                     1. In a separate vessel add the remaining propylene glycol and
                    disperse the meloxicam.
20                  2. Add the monoethanolamine and mix until a clear solution is
                    obtained.
                    3. Add benzyl alcohol.

                                                   '11
                 iii) Combine Phase B into Phase A and mix until uniform.
      Example 3A: Mixing formulation for use with smaller to medium sized animals
                 To mix the constituent formulations to achieve a concentration suitable
      for administration to smaller food producing animals (for example lambs), the
  5   following steps are carried out:
          (i) Draw the desired volume (1OmL) of a 2% xylazine (as hydrochloride)
                 injection
          (ii) dispense into 200mL of 1% meloxicam gel.
          (iii) Shake vigorously until the solution clears.
 10             The resultant formulation solution (now 21OmL) contains the following
     dissolved active constituents; 0.95% meloxicam (w/v) and 0.095% xylazine
     (w/v) (as hydrochloride) suitable for administration via the oral route
     (Meloxicam 9.52 mg/mL, xylazine is 0.952 mg/ mL)
     Example 3B Mixing formulation for use with larger sized animals
 15             To mix the formulation to achieve a concentration suitable for
    administration to larger food producing animals, specifically, calves (100kg and
    larger where calves are more sensitive to xylazine), the following steps are
    carried out:
               (i)      Draw the desired volume (5mL) of a 2% xylazine (as
20                      hydrochloride) injection
               (ii)     dispense into 200mL of 1% meloxicam gel.
               (iii)    Shake vigorously until the solution clears.
    The resultant solution (now 205mL) contains the following dissolved active
    constituents; 0.98% meloxicam (w/v) and 0.049%% xylazine (w/v) (as
25  hydrochloride) suitable for co-administration via the oral route (9.75 mg/mL
    meloxicam and 0.49 mg/mL xylazine).

                                                 12
      Example 3C Stability of the proposed mixture of meloxicam and xylazine as set
      out in Example 3A.
      Once combined, the mixture of actives is stable for a minimum of seven days.
      Day Storage             Appearance
                                             Specific pH    Meloxicam Xylazine Benzyl
                                             gravity                            alcohol
      0     Initial           Clear viscous
                               iquid
                              l______        1.034    10.06 9.45       0.98     9.61
      1     250C, air         Clear viscous
                      onitoinIliquid
            conditioning
                 ___             ud1.034              10.08 9,39       0.97     9.51
     2      25*C, air        Clear viscous   1.034    10.06 9.42
            conditioning     liquid                                    0.98     9.50
     7      250C, air        Clear viscous   1.034    10.07 9.41
            conditioning                                               0.98     9.55
                             liquid          1        1     9          0
     Example 4. Bioavailability of co-administered xylazine and meloxicam via Oral,
  5  Intramuscular and Intravenous routes of administration
              The bioavailability of xylazine and meloxicam following oral
     administration to sheep was investigated. Sheep were randomly allocated to
     one of three groups each signifying a different route of administration, Group A
     (Intravenous - IV), Group B (Intramuscular - IM) or Group C (Oral).
 10          Prior to administration animals were weighed using calibrated electronic
    stock scales and the weight recorded. Individual doses were calculated
    according to individual bodyweight and rounded up to the nearest minor
    increment on the syringe.
             The dose of xylazine investigated was 0.2mg/kg bodyweight. The dose
15  of meloxicam investigated was 0.5mg/kg bodyweight. Separate injections of a
    commercially available 20mg/mL meloxicam (METACAM 20MG/ML
    SOLUTION FOR INJECTION) and 20mg/mL xylazine (ILIUM XYLAZIL-20
    ANALGESIC, SEDATIVE AND MUSCLE RELAXANT INJECTION -20mg/mL
    xylazine as hydrochloride) were administered intravenously into the jugular vein
20  of Group A animals. A dose from the same commercially available injections
    was administered intramuscularly to the gluteus muscle of Group B animals.

                                               13
      An oral dose of the suspended meloxicam/ dissolved xylazine formulation from
       Example 1 was administered to the animal's mouth at the commissure of the
       lips and dose deposited at the back of the tongue (oral route via swallowing).
              Blood samples were obtained from each animal immediately prior to
  5   administration of the drugs and at 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 30, 60, 120, 240, 360 minutes
      after, and again 24, 48 and 72 hours after treatment. 5-10mL blood was drawn
      into a heparinised vacutainer at nominated sampling times.          Blood samples
     were centrifuged within 1-2 hours of sampling to obtain plasma which was
     subsequently tested. Analysis results are presented graphically for xylazine
 10  (Fig. 3, 4) and meloxicam (Fig. 1, 2).
              Xylazine   concentrations   in   plasma    were    determined    by    Ultra
     Performance Liquid Chromatography (UPLC) using Ultra-violet (UV) detection.
     Table 1 sets out the key parameters with respect to xylazine levels detected in
     the three treatment groups.
15   Table 1: Pharmacokinetic parameters following IV, IM and Oral xylazine
     0.2mg/kg bw in sheep
                           Intravenous (IV)     Intramuscular (IM) Oral
     Xylazine dose         0.2mg/kg bw          0.2mg/kg bw           0.2mg/kg bw
     Tmax min                                   4                     8
     Cmax ng/mL                                 16                    19
     AUC(o-t) ng-min/mL 1466                    266                   288
     Bioavailability %                          18%                   19%
             A surprising outcome of this investigation is the confirmation that the
    absorption of xylazine administered orally (predominantly via the
    gastrointestinal tract) to sheep is delayed. This is evident when the xylazine
20  plasma concentration versus time profiles are compared with the data obtained
    from the intramuscular dose.

                                                14
              Of further significance is the higher absorption of xylazine achieved
     through the oral route (predominantly via the gastrointestinal tract), reaching a
      higher maxima than the comparable intramuscular dose of 19ng/mL some 8
     minutes after administration. Detectable levels of xylazine are present up to 30
  5  minutes after dosing, also comparable to the pharmacokinetics demonstrated
     by sheep administered xylazine by intramuscular and intravenous routes.
             The Area Under Curve (AUC) is a key pharmacokinetic parameter used
     to characterise the absorption and elimination phases of a particular drug/
     administration route. The bioavailability of an intramuscular or oral dose is
 10  calculated as the percentage of the AUC of the intravenous dose, which is
     considered instantly, systemically available i.e. 100% bioavailable.
             It was a surprising outcome that the calculated bioavailability of orally
     administered xylazine was comparable to the equivalent intramuscular dose.
     This is a surprising outcome that links orally administered xylazine to the same
15   pharmacological effect as obtained from intramuscular administered xylazine
    without serious occupational health and safety drawbacks.
              Furthermore, the novel delayed absorption demonstrated by sheep
    administered an oral dose of xylazine is a significant finding. The delayed
    absorption enhances the efficiency of the process by producing a time window
20  to allow veterinarians to dose several subjects prior to returning to and
    operating on the first animal and then each additional animal in sequence.
            Another factor assessed during this study was the degree of sedation of
    animals administered xylazine at 0.2mg/kg. Sheep administered xylazine by IV
    and IM routes displayed advanced sedation which is undesirable. Surprisingly,
25  sheep administered xylazine via the oral route, did not demonstrate advanced
    sedation, ensuring safe and practical management of the animal during the
    surgery. The lack of advanced sedation demonstrated following administration

                                               15
       of an equivalent dose of xylazine is considered a significant and critical
       outcome of this investigation.
              Meloxicam concentrations in plasma were determined by Ultra
       Performance Liquid Chromatography (UPLC) using Ultra-violet (UV) detection.
   5   Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined. Table 2 sets out key
      parameters with respect to meloxicam levels detected in the three treatment
      groups.
              Surprisingly, the pharmacokinetic parameters such as bioavailability and
      Mean Residence Time (MRT) associated with an oral dose of 0.5mg
 10   meloxicam/kg bodyweight in a ruminant are similar to oral dose
      pharmacokinetic parameters obtained in other non-ruminant species, dogs and
      horses.
      Table 2: Pharmacokinetic parameters following IV, IM and Oral meloxicam
      0.5mg/kg bw in sheep
                             Intravenous (IV)    Intramuscular (IM) Oral
      Meloxicam dose        0.5mg/kg bw          0.5mg/kg bw          0.5mg/kg bw
      Tmax min                                   120                  360
      Cmax ng/mL                                 1804                 858
      AUC(o-t) ng-min/mL 1570575                 1770356              1219391
      MRT (area) min                             775                  1024
      Bioavailability                            113%                 78%
15           The significance of the oral MRT compared to IV, IM doses indicates
     that meloxicam absorbed orally (predominantly via the gastrointestinal tract) is
     retained longer systemically, allowing it to exert its analgesic effect for a longer
     period than an equivalent dose administered by intravenous or intramuscular
     routes.
20   Example 5. Bioavailability of co-administered xylazine and meloxicam via
     Buccal and Intramuscular routes of administration

                                              16
             A total of 12 young lambs of between 13 to 24 kg of bodyweight each
      were randomly divided into two treatment groups of 6 lambs each (Groups A
      and B). Each group was exposed to each dose route across two test periods
      as presented in Table 3 as per the schedule in Table 4.
  5          The washout period between the two treatment periods was 10 days.
      Table 3 - Study Design
      Group                  Period 1                      Period 2
     A                       Intramuscular                 Buccal (OTM)
     B                       Buccal (OTM)                  Intramuscular
             Intramuscular injection treatments involved administering Ilium Xylazil
     (xylazine as hydrochloride) 20mg/ml solution via the intramuscular route at a
     dose rate of 0.1mg xylazine /kg bodyweight and administering Metacam
10   (meloxicam) 20mg/mI solution via the intramuscular route at a dose rate of
     1.0mg meloxicam/kg bodyweight.
            Buccal administration (oral transmucosal) involved the administration of
    the formulation of Example 3A administered at the dose of 0.1mg xylazine /kg
    and 1.0mg meloxicam/kg bodyweight.
15          Blood sampling time points were: pre-treatment then at 1, 5, 10, 15, 30,
    45, 60, 75, 90, 105, 120 min; 3, 4, 8, 10, 12, 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours post
    treatment for each period. Blood was collected in heparin tubes and plasma
    extracted immediately after collection and kept frozen at -20 0 C. Plasma was
    shipped frozen to the designated laboratory for analysis.
20          The buccal/oral transmucosal treatments were administered by syringe.
    They were applied into the sulcus between the molar teeth and the inside of the
    cheek. The intramuscular injections were administered according to label
    directions. Individual dose volumes were calculated according to individual

                                                  17
   body weight and prepared to the dose volume or to the closest upward
   increment on the syringe.
   Table 4 - Study Schedule
   Date        StudyDay_            Activity
               -28                   Lambs were moved into feeder pens and drenched
                                    with broad spectrum anthelmintic
               -15                  Lambs were weighed for allocation to groups. Blood
                                    sample for haematology was collected, clinical
                                    examinations were carried out. Lambs were
                                    transferred into individual pens in 'hard times house'
                -7 to -2            Lambs were being handled
   Mon         -1                   Blood samples collected for PCV; cannulae in jugular
                                    veins placed; cannulae flushed twice daily with
                                    heparinised saline
  Tue           0                   Pre treatment blood samples collected. Treatment
                                   according to individual body weight at Oh. Collected
                                    blood samples, at 1, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90,
                                    105, 120 min; 3, 4, 8, 10, 12h
  Wed          1                   Collected blood samples at 24 hours; flushed
                                   cannulae twice daily with heparinised saline
  Thu         2                    Collected blood samples at 48 hours; flushed
                                   cannulae twice daily with heparinised saline
  Fri         3                    Collected blood samples at 72 hours; flushed
                                   cannulae twice daily with heparinised saline
  Sat         4                    Collected blood samples at 96 hours; flushed
                                   cannulae twice daily with heparinised saline
  Sun         5                    Checked cannulae; flushed cannulae twice daily with
                                   he arinised saline
  Mon -       1                    Collected blood samples for PCV; flushed cannulae
                   __________twice        dail with heparinised saline
  Tue         0                    Collected pre- treatment blood samples. Treated
                                   according to individual body weight at Oh. Collected
                                   blood samples, at 1, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90,
                                   105, 120 min; 3, 4, 8, 10, 12h
  Wed         1                    Collected blood samples at 24 hours; flushed
                                   cannulae twice daily with heparinised saline
  Thu         2                    Collected blood samples at 48 hours; flushed
                                   cannulae twice daily with heparinised saline
  Fri         3                    Collected blood samples at 72 hours; flushed
                                   cannulae twice daily with heparinised saline
  Sat        4                     Collected blood samples at 96 hours; removed
                                   cannulae; applied long-acting antibiotic therapy.
         Meloxicam and xylazine concentrations in plasma were determined
5 using two separate, validated analytical methods based on instrumental

                                                18
       determination using Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatography - tandem
       mass spectrometry. Sample preparation involved a deproteination step, and for
       xylazine determination, this was followed by clean-up and concentration using
       Solid Phase Extraction prior to instrumental determination. Ultra High Pressure
  5    Liquid Chromatography provided high resolution, and when coupled with the
       unique Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM) transitions obtained using the triple
      quadrupole mass spectrometer, resulted in methods demonstrating high
      sensitivity and selectivity for meloxicam and xylazine. Analysis results are
      presented graphically for xylazine (Fig. 6) and meloxicam (Fig. 5).
 10
      Table 5 - Meloxicam Bioavailability Calculation
                                      |AUC (0-t) AUC c
                                        (ng-hr/mL). .(ng-hr/mL)_
      Buccal Treatment Average 40792                 41104
      IM Treatment Average             49470         49739
      Bioavailability                  82%           83%
      Table 6 - Bioavailability Xy lazine
                                       AUC (0-t)     AUC
                                       (ng-          (ng
                                       min/mL)       min/mL)
     Buccal Treatment                  364           367
     Average
     IM Treatment Average              735           765
     Bioavailability                   50%           48%
              Notable differences in meloxicam and xylazine absorption and
     elimination are evident when the two administration routes are compared. The
15   rate and extent of absorption of meloxicam and xylazine from intramuscular
     administration is higher than that obtained from an equivalent dose
     administered by the oral trans mucosal route. The resultant bioavailability for
    each drug was calculated to be approximately 80% for meloxicam and 50% for
    xylazine as set out in Tables 5 and 6.
20           The lower bioavailability of xylazine could be advantageous in terms of
    target animal safety, providing a clinical analgesic effect using this dose

                                                19
       regimen can be demonstrated. Although a total of four animals treated with the
       injectable reference products showed signs from marked to slight sedation
       none of the animals required veterinary intervention and recovered
      unremarkably within one hour and 10 minutes.
  5           The co-administration of two effective analgesic agents will provide
      farmers distinct advantages in efficiency, user safety and added compliance
      with 'control of use' legislation. The concentrations detected in plasma would
      result in animals receiving the analgesic benefit of xylazine if the operation was
      conducted within 15-30 minutes post-treatment, and extended postoperative
 10   pain relief, provided by meloxicam, for in excess of 24 hours. Procedures such
     as tail docking, dehorning, castration and mulesing would be less painful and
     less traumatic to the animal under these treatment conditions.
              The pharmacokinetics determined in this investigation confirms that a
     combination of two or more analgesic agents, more specifically an NSAID and
15   a2-agonist, more specifically meloxicam and xylazine, administered orally,
     results in a delayed, higher absorption of the a2-agonist during the period of
     surgery, and maintains concentrations of NSAID in plasma past 24 hours.
     INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
    The present invention has industrial applicability in the field of pharmaceutical
20  formulations and methods of providing therapy to animals.

                                          20
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
  1.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising a NSAID or a salt or
  derivative thereof, in combination with an a2-agonist or a salt or a derivative
  thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, as well as any one or more of a
  number of desired excipients.
 2.        The composition of claim 1 wherein the NSAID is meloxicam.
 3.        The composition of claim 2 wherein the 02-agonist is xylazine.
 4.        The composition of claim 3 wherein the concentration of meloxicam is
 between 0.25% and 1% (w/v) and the concentration of Xylazine is between
 0.04% and 0.2% w/v).
 5.       A method of using a pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 1 to 4
 wherein the method comprises orally administering to a subject animal the
 composition of any of claims 1 to 4.
6.        The method of claim 5 wherein the animal subjects of the present
 method are sheep and where the method comprises administering to a sheep
between 0.1 and 0.2mg/kg of xyalzine and 1.0 mg/kg of meloxicam.
7.        The method of claim 5 wherein the animal subjects of the present
method are cattle and the method comprises administering to cattle between
0.1 and 0.2mg/kg of xyalzine and 0.5 mg/kg of meloxicam.
09/02/18

                                          21
  8.       The method of claim 6 or 7 wherein the composition is administered via
  the oral transmucosal route and where the composition is adapted to be
  administered via that route.
 9.        The method of claim 5 wherein the method comprises co-administering
 a mixture of meloxicam containing formulation and xylazine containing
 formulations.
 10.      The method of claim 9 wherein the co-administration involves mixing
 separate meloxicam and xylazine containing formulations and administering the
 mixture via the oral transmucosal route and where the meloxicam containing
formulation is formulated as a gel.
 11.      The method of claim 10 wherein the meloxicam gel formulation
contains meloxicam at a concentration of about I mg/mL
 12.      The method of claim 10 wherein the mixing includes the step of mixing
the meloxicam containing formulation and xylazine containing formulation in
ratios such that the resulting formulation has a concentration of meloxicam of
between 9.5 and 9.8mg/ml meloxicam and between 0.95 to 0.48mg/ml of
xylazine.
Dated this    12 th day of February 2018
Troy Laboratories Pty Ltd
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
PETER MAXWELL AND ASSOCIATES

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
