ABSTRACT
        Methods and devices are provided for securing tissue to bone. In general, a suture
leader can have leading and trailing ends, and an inner passageway configured to receive a
strand of suture therein. More specifically, the trailing end of the leader can be configured
to receive the strand of suture therein to form an overlapping region of suture leader and
suture. When the suture is positioned in the leader, an outer diameter of the leading end of
the leader can be less than an outer diameter of the over lapping region. The leader can
have a lower bending stiffness than the suture so that the leader can be more easily folded
into a bend. In certain aspects, the suture leader can be formed from a substantially
flexible, braided material so that the leader can be configured to contract when a pulling
force is applied to the leader. In another embodiment, the suture leader can have a pre
formed crease configured to mate with a threading tool.

                   1/11
                 FIG. 1
    10                             100,
                                      100
        10                            1alb
                        100b               100a
                                  10     0
               FIG. 2A
102    100a                  /100            100b L
                      L1
               FIG. 2B
                          Di
            Do___W

                                                 1
SUTURE LEADER
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]           The present disclosure relates to devices and methods for attaching soft
tissue to bone.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]           The complete or partial detachment of ligaments, tendons and/or other soft
tissues from their associated bones within the body are relatively commonplace injuries,
particularly among athletes. Such injuries are generally the result of excessive stresses
being placed on these tissues. By way of example, tissue detachment may occur as the
result of an accident such as a fall, over-exertion during a work-related activity, during the
course of an athletic event, or in any one of many other situations and/or activities. In the
case of a partial detachment, the injury will frequently heal itself, if given sufficient time
and if care is taken not to expose the injury to further undue stress. In the case of complete
detachment, however, surgery may be needed to re-attach the soft tissue to its associated
bone or bones.
[0003]           Numerous devices are currently available to re-attach soft tissue to bone.
Examples of such currently-available devices include screws, staples, suture anchors, and
tacks. In soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing screws, the detached soft tissue is
typically moved back into its original position over the bone. Then the screw is screwed
through the soft tissue and into the bone, with the shank and head of the screw holding the
soft tissue to the bone. Similarly, in soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing staples,
the detached soft tissue is typically moved back into its original position over the bone.
Then the staple is driven through the soft tissue and into the bone, with the legs and bridge
of the staple holding the soft tissue to the bone.
[0004]           In soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing suture anchors, an anchor
receiving hole is generally first drilled in the bone at the desired point of tissue re-

                                                   2
attachment. A suture anchor is then deployed in the hole using an appropriate installation
tool. This effectively locks the suture, with soft tissue attached thereto.
[0005]          While suture anchors provide an effective, minimally-invasive technique for
soft tissue repair, it is desirable to utilize an anchor having a small diameter so as to avoid
unnecessary trauma. The size of the anchor, however, can be limited by the size of the
suture and/or the bending stiffness of the suture. Typically, a single strand of repair suture
is folded and trailing ends of the suture are attached to a threader loop, which is used to
pull the folded suture into the anchor. When a folded suture is used, the cannulated portion
of the anchor must be large enough to accommodate at least two times the thickness of the
repair suture. The bending stiffness of the repair suture used can also limit the size of the
anchor. For example, high strength suture can have a greater bending stiffness than other
types of suture and this can make it difficult to bring legs of the suture together to form a
1800 fold, especially near the location of the bend. Because a width at the bend is larger
than a width of two legs of the suture, it can be difficult to fit the bend in a lumen in the
anchor. This in turn restricts the ability to reduce the size of the anchor.
[0006]          Accordingly, there remains a need for improved methods and devices for
attaching soft tissue to bone.
SUMMARY
[0007]          Various surgical devices are provided herein. In one embodiment, a
surgical device is provided that includes at least one suture strand and a biocompatible
suture leader. The suture leader can have a first terminal end portion that is mated to a
terminal end portion of the at least one suture strand. The suture leader can have an outer
diameter along at least a portion of a length thereof that is less than a maximum outer
diameter of the at least one suture strand. The suture leader can further include a pre
formed crease therein such that the suture leader is bent when it is in a resting state.
[0008]          The device can vary in a number of ways. For example, the first terminal
end portion of the suture leader can be configured to collapse around the terminal end
portion of the at least one suture strand when a pulling force is applied to the suture leader.

                                                3
For another example, the terminal end portion of the at least one suture strand can be
disposed within an inner passageway in the first terminal end portion of the suture leader.
The suture leader can further include a second terminal end portion having an outer
diameter that is preferably less than one half an outer diameter of the at least one suture
strand. In certain aspects, the suture leader can be detachably mated to the at least one
suture strand. The at least one suture strand can include a single suture strand having first
and second terminal end portions that are received within the first terminal end portion of
the suture leader. In other aspects, the at least one suture strand can include first and
second suture strands, and a first terminal end of the first suture strand and a second
terminal end of the second suture strand can be received in the first terminal end portion of
the suture leader.
[0009]          In another embodiment, a suture can include a first length of biocompatible
suture strand and a first length of biocompatible suture leader. The suture strand can have
leading and trailing ends. The suture leader can have a lumen extending at least partially
therethrough and originating at a trailing end thereof. The suture leader can have an outer
diameter along at least a portion thereof that is less than a maximum outer diameter of the
first length of suture strand. The leading end of the first length of suture can be disposed
within the lumen in the trailing end of the suture leader such that a force applied to a
leading end of the suture leader causes the trailing end of the suture leader to contract and
engage the leading end of the suture strand.
[0010]          The suture can vary in other ways. For example, the suture can include a
second length of biocompatible suture strand having a leading end disposed within the
lumen of the suture leader. The suture leader can include a pre-formed hook formed
therein. The trailing end of the suture leader can be configured to contract around the
suture strand when a tensile force is applied to the suture leader. In certain aspects, the
suture leader can have a braided structure. In other aspects, the suture leader can have a
color contrasted from a color of the suture strand to visually distinguish the suture leader
from the suture strand. The suture leader and the suture strand can be fixedly coupled at
one or more discrete locations.

                                                 4
[0011]          A method for attaching tissue to bone is also provided, and can include
threading suture into a suture anchor. In one embodiment, the method can include
positioning a threader loop within a crease pre-formed in a suture leader such that the
suture leader is hooked onto the threader loop, and pulling the threader loop to pull the
suture leader through a lumen in a suture anchor. The suture leader can have a suture
attached to a first trailing end thereof, and the suture leader can collapse around the suture
as the suture leader is pulled through the suture anchor.
[0012]          The surgical method can include a variety of modifications. For example,
pulling the suture leader can cause at least a portion of the suture leader to radially collapse
around the suture. Pulling the threader loop can include pulling the threader loop distally
through the lumen, around a suture-receiving member in the suture anchor, and proximally
through the lumen. The surgical method can also include detaching the suture leader from
the suture strand after the suture leader is pulled through the suture anchor. Prior to pulling
the threader loop through the suture anchor, the threader loop can be positioned within a
crease pre-formed in a second suture leader, the second suture leader being attached to a
second trailing end of the suture. Pulling the threader loop can decrease outer diameters of
the first and second suture leaders such that the first and second suture leaders are
dimensioned to pass through an eyelet formed in the suture anchor. The suture leader can
also have a first suture and a second suture attached to the first trailing end thereof.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0013]          This invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed
description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0014]          FIG. 1 is perspective, semi-transparent view of two suture leaders mated
with a suture, according to one exemplary embodiment;
[0015]          FIG. 2A is a side view of the suture leader of FIG. 1;
[0016]          FIG. 2B is a cross-sectional view of the suture leader of FIG. 2A, taken
along an axis perpendicular to longitudinal axis L;

                                                5
[0017]          FIG. 3A is another embodiment of a suture leader having a bent terminal
end portion;
[0018]          FIG. 3B is another embodiment of a suture leader having a curved terminal
end portion;
[0019]          FIG. 4A is a perspective view of an exemplary suture configured to be
received within a suture leader;
[0020]          FIG. 4B is a cross-sectional view of the suture of FIG. 4A;
[0021]          FIG. 5A is a partially transparent, side view of the suture leader and suture
of FIG. 1, showing the overlapping region of suture leader and suture;
[0022]          FIG. 5B is a partially transparent, side view of the suture leader of FIG. 1
having first and second terminal ends of suture received therein;
[0023]          FIG. 5C is a partially transparent, side view of the suture leader and suture
of FIG. 1, showing a plurality of fixation points;
[0024]          FIG. 6 is a perspective view of a suture in a folded configuration with a
wide bent portion compared with the width near the first and second ends;
[0025]          FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional view of one embodiment of an anchor configured
to receive the suture leader and strand of suture of FIG. 1 therein;
[0026]          FIG. 8 is a perspective view of the suture leader of FIG. 3Ahaving a first
end mated to a threader loop;
[0027]          FIG. 9 is a cross-sectional view of the anchor of FIG. 7 with a threader loop
extending therethrough and mated with bent terminal ends of two suture leaders;
[0028]          FIG. 10 is a perspective view of the suture leaders and threader of FIG. 9
being pulled through an eyelet of an anchor;

                                                 6
[0029]           FIG. 11 is a cross-sectional view of the anchor of FIG. 7 with the suture
leader of FIG. 3A threaded within the anchor; and
[0030]           FIG. 12 is a cross-sectional view of the anchor of FIG. 11 with the suture
threaded completely through the anchor and the leaders positioned outside of the anchor.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031]           Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall
understanding of the principles of the structure, function, manufacture, and use of the
devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those skilled in the art will understand that the
devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying
drawings are non-limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the present
invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in
connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other
embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the
scope of the present invention. Further, in the present disclosure, like-numbered
components of the embodiments generally have similar features, and thus within a
particular embodiment each feature of each like-numbered component is not necessarily
fully elaborated upon. Additionally, to the extent that linear or circular dimensions are
used in the description of the disclosed systems, devices, and methods, such dimensions
are not intended to limit the types of shapes that can be used in conjunction with such
systems, devices, and methods. A person skilled in the art will recognize that an
equivalent to such linear and circular dimensions can easily be determined for any
geometric shape. Sizes and shapes of the systems and devices, and the components
thereof, can depend at least on the anatomy of the subject in which the systems and devices
will be used, the size and shape of components with which the systems and devices will be
used, and the methods and procedures in which the systems and devices will be used.
[0032]           The figures provided herein are not necessarily to scale. Still further, to the
extent arrows are used to describe a direction a component can be tensioned or pulled,
these arrows are illustrative and in no way limit the direction the respective component can

                                                7
be tensioned or pulled. A person skilled in the art will recognize other ways and directions
for creating the desired tension. Likewise, while in some embodiments movement of one
component is described with respect to another, a person skilled in the art will recognize
that other movements are possible. Additionally, a number of terms may be used
throughout the disclosure interchangeably but will be understood by a person skilled in the
art.
[0033]           Various devices and methods are provided for threading a suture through a
suture anchor, and for anchoring suture to bone. In general, the present invention provides
a suture leader that is configured to mate with an end of at least one suture, and that can
facilitate loading of at least one suture onto a suture anchor. For example, in one
embodiment the suture leader can have an inner passageway sized to receive one or more
ends of one or more sutures. In certain aspects, a leading end of the leader can include a
bent or hooked end portion that is configured to mate with a suture threading tool, such as
a threader loop. In use, the suture leader can be mated to one or more sutures, and the
leader can be folded around or hooked onto the threading tool. Because the leader can
have a low bending stiffness relative to the bending stiffness of the suture(s), the folded
leader can have a smaller width near the bend than if the suture were directly folded around
the threader and then pulled through the anchor. Alternatively, the hooked end of the
suture leader can provide a reduced-width region, as compared to a bent suture, that
facilitates passage through an anchor. A pulling force can be applied to the suture leader to
cause an overlapping region of the leader to contract around the suture(s) and provide a
smooth transition between the suture(s) and the leader. The leader can guide the suture
through the anchor until the suture is threaded completely through the anchor and the
leader is positioned outside of the anchor. In one embodiment, the suture leader can be
detached from the suture(s) after the suture(s) has been threaded onto the anchor, such as
by sliding the suture leader off the suture(s).
[0034]           FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of first and second suture
leaders 100, 100' mated to first and second ends of a single strand of suture 10. Though
reference is made to suture leader 100, suture leader 100' can have the same features. In
general, the suture leader 100 can have an elongate shape and can have first and second
terminal ends 100a, 100b. The suture leader 100 can also have an inner passageway 102

                                                8
extending through all or a portion thereof for receiving one of more ends of a suture, such
as a first end 10a of the suture 10. The first/leading end 100a of the suture leader can
facilitate loading of the suture 10 onto an anchor (not shown) by leading the suture 10 into
the anchor, as will be discussed in greater detail below. A person skilled in the art will
appreciate that the suture leader can be configured to mate to or receive any number of
ends of one or more sutures.
[0035]          The suture leader 100 can have various sizes, shapes, and configurations.
FIG. 2A illustrates the suture leader 100 without a suture disposed therein. As shown, the
suture leader 100 can have a substantially cylindrical shape with the inner passageway 102
extending along a longitudinal axis L thereof. The inner passageway 102 can extend along
a portion of the suture leader 100 or along an entire length of the leader 100, but preferably
the inner passageway 102 originates at a terminal end portion of the leader 100, e.g., at
terminal end 100a as shown. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the suture
leader can have other cross-sectional shapes, such as ovular, square, rectangular, etc. FIG.
2B is a cross-sectional view of the suture leader 100 and shows an inner diameter Di, an
outer diameter Do, and a wall thickness W. In general, the suture leader 100 can have a
relatively thin wall thickness W such that when a suture is disposed therein, the outer
diameter of the suture leader along the region overlapping the suture is smaller than twice
a diameter of the suture it receives. That is, the wall thickness W should be thin enough so
that of the suture plus two times the added wall thickness W from the suture leader 100 is
still be smaller than a width of a folded suture 10, as will be discussed below. A length of
the suture leader L1 can be selected based on the particular surgical procedure to be
performed, but in one embodiment the length L1 can be in the range of about 70 mm to
250, such as about 200 mm, as measured from terminal end to terminal end when the
suture leader 100 is in a linear configuration.
[0036]          The suture leader 100 can have various mechanical properties that can
facilitate use of the suture leader for loading a suture onto a suture anchor. In one
embodiment, the suture leader 100 can be relatively stiff along its length, but bendable to
allow for ease of threading the leader 100 through a bone anchor. In another embodiment,
the suture leader 100 can be substantially flexible along its length. The manufacturing
techniques and/or the material(s) used can be selected to achieve a desired flexibility. By

                                                9
way of non-limiting example, such material can include high molecular weight
polyethylene, polyester, polyethylene terephthalate (PET), polyether ether ketone (PEEK),
or a blend of any combination of these materials. During manufacturing, filaments and/or
fibers can be braided, twisted, and/or weaved together to form a leader having an inner
passageway, also referred to as a hollow core. For example, FIG. 2A illustrates the suture
leader 100 with a woven or braided structure and having the inner passageway extending
through its entire length L 1. In another embodiment, a first portion of the suture leader
can have a braided structure with the hollow core/inner passageway extending
therethrough, and a second portion of the leader can be substantially solid. Alternatively,
the suture leader can be formed from a solid material, and the core of the suture leader can
be partially or entirely removed. By way of non-limiting example, the suture leader can be
formed from commercially available suture, such as ETHIBOND #0 manufactured by
Ethicon, Inc. of Somerville, NJ.
[0037]          The suture leader can have a variety of other features. Another embodiment
of a suture leader 200 is illustrated in FIG. 3A. As shown, an end portion of the suture
leader 200 can have an engagement feature, such as a pre-formed hook, to facilitate
engagement to a suture or a threader loop. Various techniques can be used to form the
hook. By way of non-limiting example, the suture leader can include a fold or crease
formed therein such that when the suture leader 200 is in a resting configuration, the end of
the suture leader can be bent or hooked. In particular, a terminal end 200a of the suture
leader 200 can be angularly offset from a longitudinal axis L2 of the suture leader 200 by
an angle 0 so that the leader 200 can be hooked onto a threader (not shown). By way of
non-limiting example, the angle 0 can be in the range of about 0-90'. As will be
appreciated by a person skilled in the art, the crease 204 can be formed at various locations
on the suture leader 200. The location of the crease 204 relative to the terminal end 200a
of the leader 200 can be at a distance that ensures that the end can hook onto a threader.
For example, the crease can be at a position such that the end portion has a length Lc that
can be in the range of about 12 mm to 100 mm and a body of the leader can have a length
LB  that can be in the range of about 25 mm to 300 mm.
[0038]          The crease 204 can be formed using various manufacturing techniques, such
as compression or heat setting or by applying biocompatible glue and/or other bonding

                                               10
material known in the art, or by other techniques, either separately or in combination.
Thus, the crease 204 can be made strong enough to substantially maintain its shape when it
is passed through tissue.
[0039]          In another embodiment shown in FIG. 3B, a suture leader 300 can have a
terminal end that is curved or has a J-shaped hook. For example, the leader 300 can have a
curved terminal end portion 302, rather than a sharp bend or crease. The terminal end
portion 302 of the leader 300 can be spaced at a distance away from a body 304 of the
leader 300 to define a height H. The leader 300 can be formed from a solid material, such
as monofilament suture, that can substantially retain its shape even when the leader 300 is
passed through tissue.
[0040]          Leaders 100, 200, and 300 can be used with any suture and with any number
of sutures. While the suture 10 can have various sizes, shapes, and configurations, FIG.
4A illustrates one embodiment of a suture 10 that includes the first and second terminal
ends 1Oa, 1Ob with a length Ls therebetween. The suture 10 can have a length Ls such that
it can be threaded through tissue and through a bone anchor, with terminal ends extending
from the bone anchor. The suture 10 can have an outer diameter Ds, as shown in FIG. 4B
that can vary. By way of non-limiting example, the outer diameter Ds of the suture 10 can
be in the range of about 0.15 mm to 0.7 mm, and preferably about 0.5 mm to 0.6 mm. This
corresponds to sutures ranging from size # 4-0 to size # 5, and preferably size # 2. The
suture 10 can include an inner passageway (not shown) extending along a longitudinal axis
of the suture 10, or as in the illustrated embodiment, the suture 10 can be substantially
solid along its length Ls. The suture 10 can be formed from a biocompatible material, and
the material can be absorbable, partially-absorbable, or non-absorbable depending on the
particular surgical procedure. For example, non-absorbable suture can be used in surgical
procedures that require a strong amount of fixation in order to maintain contact between
tissue and adjacent bone. By way of non-limiting example, the suture 10 can be a high
strength suture, such as ORTHOCORD #2 manufactured by Ethicon, Inc. of Somerville,
NJ.
[0041]          The suture 10 and suture leader 100 can have other features. Though
reference is made to suture leader 100, suture leaders 200, 300 can have any combination

                                                11
of the features described herein. In one embodiment, the suture 10 and leader 100 can be
visually distinct. For example, the suture 10 can be formed from a first color and the
leader 100 can be formed from a second color to help a user visually identify the end of an
overlapping region of the leader 100 from the suture 10. This can be accomplished by
dying or otherwise marking the suture 10 and/or the suture leading 100 during
manufacturing. Alternatively, the suture and suture leader can each be braided from
filaments of differing color, and/or using different pick counts to produce distinct patterns.
Non-limiting examples of sutures having different pick counts are discussed in U.S. Patent
Apple. No. [ ], filed on even date herewith and entitled "Methods and Devices for
Threading Sutures," (Atty. Docket No. 22956-996) which is hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
[0042]          In use, the first end 1Oa of the suture 10 can be received in the trailing,
second end 100b of the suture leader 100 to form an overlapping region R, as shown in
FIG. 5A. The overlapping region R can have any length, such as a length in the range of
about 50 mm to 160 mm, to ensure sufficient contact between the suture 10 and the suture
leader 100. The relative diameters of the suture, the leader, and the overlapping region can
vary, and the relative sizing can apply to the leaders 100, 200, and 300. When the suture
10 is positioned in the leader 100, as shown in FIG. 5A, the outer diameter DR of the
overlapping region R is defined by the outer diameter Ds of the suture 10 plus twice the
wall thickness W of the suture leader 100. In one embodiment, the outer diameter         DR Of
the overlapping region R can be slightly larger than the outer diameter Ds of the strand of
suture 10. Preferably, the outer diameter DR of the overlapping region is less than twice
the diameter Ds of the suture. As shown, the outer diameter Do of the leading end 100a of
the leader can be equal to or smaller than the outer diameter Ds of the suture strand 10.
More preferably, the outer diameter Do of the leading end 100a is less than half the outer
diameter DR of the overlapping region R. In this way, the reduced diameter of the leading
end 100a can counteract the added wall thickness W in the overlapping region R.
[0043]          The suture 10 can be positioned within the leader 100 using various
techniques. Referring back to FIG. 2A, when the suture leader 100 does not have a suture
disposed therein, the leader 100 can have an inner diameter that can be substantially
constant along its length LI. As shown in FIG. 5A, when the leader 100 has the suture 10

                                                12
positioned therein, the leader 100 can have inner diameter Di at the leading end 100a that is
less than the outer diameter Ds of the suture 10. Accordingly, the inner diameter of the
leader 100 can thus be expanded at the overlapping region R, such as by compressing the
leader 100 in a longitudinal direction, so that the leader 100 can be sized to receive the
suture therein. This can expand the outer diameter of the leader 100 such that the diameter
DR   of the leader 100 at the trailing, second end 100b is greater than the outer diameter De
at the leading, first end 100a. Typically, the suture 10 can be mated with the leader 100
during the manufacturing process by sliding the suture 10 into the lumen in the trailing end
100b of the leader 100.
[0044]           While FIG. 5A illustrates a suture leader having a single strand of suture
therein, a person skilled in the art will appreciate that the suture leader can be configured to
receive any number of suture strands therein. By way of example, FIG. 5B illustrates first
and second terminal ends 1 la, 11 b of suture disposed within and mated to suture leader
100. The terminal ends 1 la, 11 b can be ends of the same suture, or ends of two different
sutures. While not shown, a folded portion of one or more sutures can also be received in
the suture leader.
[0045]           In general, the suture leader 100 and the suture 10 can be temporarily or
permanently mated together using various techniques. For example, in one embodiment
the suture leader 100 can radially contract or compress around an outer circumference of
the suture 10 when an axial pulling force is applied to the suture leader. This can prevent
the suture 10 from unintentionally being pulled out from the suture leader 100. When
tension is applied to the leader 100 by pulling on the leading end 100a of the leader, the
braided configuration of the leader 100 will be pulled axially, thus tightening the braid and
increasing the contracting force around the suture 10. The leader 100 can function as a
Chinese finger trap in that the applied tension can both increase a length of the leader and
decrease inner and outer diameters of the leader 100. In another embodiment, the mating
between the suture leader 100 and the suture 10 can be supplemented at one on more
discrete locations along the overlapping region. For example, FIG. 5C depicts the leader
100 and suture 10 with evenly spaced fixation points F1, F 2, and F3 . The fixation points F 1,
F 2, and F3 can be made using various techniques known in the art, such as heat treatment,
spot welds, etc, and any number of fixation points can be positioned at any location on the

                                               13
overlapping region R. Additionally or alternatively, fibers or filaments of the suture 10
and the leader 100 can be spliced together at various locations to form temporary or
permanent fixation points.
[0046]           As previously mentioned, the bending stiffness of a suture can make it
difficult to thread a suture onto an anchor. FIG. 6 illustrates one example of this concept,
showing the suture 10 in a folded configuration. Because the suture 10 can have a high
bending stiffness, opposed sides of the suture cannot be brought together to form a 1800
fold. Rather, a folded portion F of the suture 10 has a width WF that is greater than a
combined width Ws of the suture legs. Because the folded portion F is typically pulled
into an anchor before the first and second ends 10a, 10b, the suture 10 occupies a larger
space than if it could achieve the 180' fold. A leader can thus be used in combination with
the suture 10 to avoid the need to fold the suture for threading it into the anchor, as will be
discussed.
[0047]           FIG. 7 illustrates one exemplary embodiment of a cannulated suture anchor
20 for anchoring tissue to bone. As shown, the suture anchor 20 is in the form of a
generally elongate body having proximal and distal ends 20p, 20d with an inner lumen 22
extending therethrough. In one embodiment, the inner lumen 22 can have a substantially
cylindrical shape defining an inner diameter DL. At least one bone-engaging surface
feature 24 can be formed on at least a portion of an external surface thereof for engaging
bone. The suture anchor 20 can also include a suture-receiving member 26 disposed
within the inner lumen 22 adjacent to the distal end 20d of the suture anchor 20. The
suture-receiving member 26 is adapted to receive one or more sutures therearound such
that the suture(s) can extend around the suture-receiving member 26 and trailing ends of
the suture(s) can extend through the inner lumen 22 and out of the proximal end 20p of the
suture anchor 20.
[0048]           The body of the suture anchor 20 can have a variety of configurations,
shapes, and sizes. In an exemplary embodiment, the anchor 20 is configured to be
implanted within a bone tunnel formed in bone, and more preferably it has a size and shape
that allows it to be fully engaged through the thickness of the cortical bone. In the
illustrated embodiment the body has a generally elongate cylindrical shape with a blunt or

                                                14
rounded distal end 20d to facilitate introduction of the anchor 20 into a bone tunnel. The
proximal end 20p of the body can be head-free, and the cannulated body can be configured
to allow a driver to be inserted into the inner lumen to drive the suture anchor into bone. In
another embodiment, the proximal end 20p of the body can have a head for mating with a
driver for driving the anchor 20 into bone. As indicated above, the suture anchor 20 can
also include one or more bone-engaging surface features 24 formed thereon and adapted to
engage bone. While various surface features can be used, such as teeth, ridges, protrusions,
etc., in an exemplary embodiment the body can include one or more threads extending
therearound.
[0049]          As previously indicated above, the suture anchor 20 can also include a
suture-receiving member formed therein. The suture-receiving member 26 can have a
variety of configurations, but in an exemplary embodiment it is adapted to seat one or more
sutures that extend through the inner lumen 22 of the anchor 20. As shown in FIG. 7, the
suture-receiving member 26 is in the form of a post that extends transversely across the
inner lumen 22 and between opposed inner sidewalls 28, 30 of the suture anchor. The
angular orientation of the suture-receiving member 26 relative to a longitudinal axis LA Of
the inner lumen 22 can vary, but in an exemplary embodiment the suture-receiving
member 26 extends substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis LA of the inner
lumen 22. The location of the suture-receiving member 26 can also vary, but in an
exemplary embodiment the suture-receiving member 26 is positioned at or adjacent to the
distal end 20d of the suture anchor 20. In the embodiment shown in FIG. 7 the suture
receiving member 26 is located just proximal to the distal-most end 20d of the suture
anchor 20 so as to form a suture-seating groove in the distal-most end 20d of the suture
anchor 20. This recessed configuration of the suture-receiving member 26 can allow a
suture(s) disposed around the suture-receiving member 26 to sit flush or sub-flush with the
distal end 20d of the suture anchor 20 such that the suture(s) will not interfere with
insertion of the suture anchor 20 into bone. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that
the suture-receiving member can be integrally formed with the suture anchor, i.e., the
suture anchor and suture-receiving member can be molded as a single unit or formed from
a single piece of material, or the suture-receiving member can be fixedly or removably
mated to the suture anchor. Additionally, the suture-receiving member can have other
configurations, such as an eyelet that can receive the suture 10 and leader 100

                                                15
therethrough. Non-limiting examples of suture anchors and deploying suture anchors into
bone are described in further detail in U.S. App. No. 11/555,545 entitled "Cannulated
Suture Anchor" filed February 1, 2006, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,114,128, U.S. App. No.
11/855,670 entitled "Dual Thread Cannulated Suture Anchor" filed September 14, 2007,
U.S. App. No. 10/615,625 entitled "Bioabsorbable Suture Anchor System For Use In
Small Joints" filed June 27, 2003, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,133,257, U.S. Patent Appl. No. [ ],
filed on even date herewith and entitled "Anti-Backup Suture Anchor," (Atty. Docket No.
22956-994), and U.S. Patent App. No. [ ], filed on even date herewith and entitled "Self
Cinching Suture Anchors, Self-Cinching Suture Anchor Systems, and Methods for Use,"
(Atty. Docket No. 22956-992), all which are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entireties.
[0050]          The devices described above can be used to perform a surgical procedure
for attaching tissue to bone, e.g. anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) repair, rotator cuff
repair, etc. In an exemplary embodiment, a procedure including implantation of the anchor
can be a minimally invasive procedure, but as will be appreciated by a person skilled in the
art, the implants discussed herein also have application in open surgical instrumentation as
well as application in robotic-assisted surgery. Though reference is made to suture 10 and
suture leader 100, the devices shown are exemplary and the method can be performed with
any number and any embodiment of a suture and a leader. For example, while some of the
embodiments show a single suture leader mated with one terminal end of the suture, first
and second ends of the suture can each have a different suture leader mated thereto or first
and second ends of the same or different sutures can be disposed within a single leader.
Additionally, the suture leader 100 can be substituted or interchanged with the suture
leaders 200, 300 described above.
[0051]          As one skilled in the art will appreciate, the procedure usually begins by
preparing the patient for surgery and making one or more appropriately sized incisions at a
desired location. In a minimally invasive procedure, one or more cannulas can be
positioned in the incisions to provide access to the surgical site. One skilled in the art will
also understand that one or more viewing devices, e.g., scopes, can be placed in one of the
incisions to allow medical personnel to view the surgical site from outside the body.

                                                16
[0052]           Once the patient is prepared for surgery, a length of suture 10 can be
inserted into the patient's body and through tissue to be surgically reattached to bone.
When a combination suture and suture leader is used, the leading end of the suture leader
can be inserted through the tissue directly using a tool, such as a needle. The leader can be
used to pull the suture coupled thereto through the tissue. Alternatively, the suture can be
threaded through the tissue and then coupled to the suture leader, e.g., by passing the
leading end of the suture into the lumen in the trailing end of the suture leader. One skilled
in the art will appreciate that the suture and/or leader can be passed through the tissue
using any known surgical technique, such as by mattress and cinch loop methods. With
the suture and leader so positioned, a bore, bone hole, or bone tunnel, generally referred to
herein as a "bone hole," can be formed in bone of the patient. The bone hole can be pre
formed, such as by using a drill, an awl, a punch instrument, etc., as will be appreciated by
a person skilled in the art. Alternatively, the bone hole can be formed simultaneously with
advancement of a suture anchor into the bone and simultaneously with threadable
engagement of the anchor therewith, such as by using a self-awling or self-tapping driver
and/or self-awling or self-tapping anchor. The bone hole can extend fully through cortical
bone to allow the suture anchor to be fully engaged through the thickness of the cortical
bone. The bone tunnel can also extend into cancellous bone located underneath the
cortical bone. The suture anchor can be deployed in the bone hole before or after suture
leader is threaded or loaded onto the suture anchor. With the suture and/or leader(s)
threaded through tissue, the terminal ends can extend outside of the body. The suture and
the leader can be threaded onto the anchor, either before or after the anchor is implanted in
bone.
[0053]           The suture 10 and leader 100 can be threaded through the anchor 20 in
various ways and using various tools known in the art, such as a threader loop. As shown
in FIG. 8, in general, the leader 100 can be bent into a 1800 fold prior to being pulled
through a lumen in a suture anchor, and the leader 100 can guide the suture therethrough.
This can eliminate the need to fold the suture and pull the folded portion of the suture
through the lumen of the anchor. In particular, when the suture leader 200 includes the
pre-formed crease 204, the end portion of the leader 200 can be hooked onto a head portion
42 of the threader loop 40 prior to threading the leader 200 and the suture coupled thereto
through the anchor. The leader 200 can be mated to the threader loop 40 in other ways,

                                              17
such as using a knot, glue, or other known engagement techniques. In another
embodiment, shown in FIG. 9, when two suture leaders 200, 200' are coupled to a single
strand of suture, the two suture leaders 200, 200' can be mated with a single threader loop
40. When the threader loop 40 or other threading tool is used, the threader loop 40 can be
pre-disposed within the suture anchor 20 such that leading and trailing ends of the threader
40 extend from the proximal end 20p of the anchor 20. This allows the suture leader(s)
200, 200' to be hooked onto the head of the threader 40 and then simply pulled through the
anchor 20. More specifically, during loading of the threader loop 40 onto the anchor 20,
the threader loop 40 can extend distally through the cannulated portion of the anchor 20
and can be wrapped around or extend through the suture-receiving member 26, and can
extend proximally back through the lumen and out of the proximal end of the anchor 20. A
threader loop 40 loaded onto the anchor 20 is shown in FIG. 9, along with the suture
leaders 200, 200' mated with first and second ends of a suture strand 10. In use, a pulling
force can be applied to the leading end of the threader loop 40, which can pull the head 42
of the threader 40 (which is trailing) through the lumen of the anchor 20. The pulling force
can cause the suture leaders 200, 200' to radially contract around the suture 10. The
pulling force applied to the threader loop 40 can pull the first and second suture leaders
200, 200' through the lumen 22 of the anchor 20. As shown in FIG. 10, where the suture
receiving member 26 is an eyelet, the threader loop 40 can be pulled therethrough, along
with the suture leaders 200, 200'. The applied pulling force can cause the suture leaders
200, 200' to radially contract around the suture 10 so that the leaders 200, 200' are sized to
pass through the eyelet 26.
[0054]          FIG. 11 shows the leaders 200, 200' and the suture 10 being threaded
through the anchor 20.     The leading ends of the leaders 200, 200' can be partially inserted
through the anchor 20 and a pulling or tensioning force Ti can be applied, such as using the
threader loop. The leaders 200, 200' can have a length such that they can extend
substantially through the inner lumen 22 of the anchor 22, as shown, or in other
embodiments the leaders 200, 200' can extend partially through the lumen 22. In
embodiments where the leaders 200, 200' are formed from a braided material, the leaders
200, 200' can compress around the suture 10 in the overlapping region R as the leaders are
pulled. This can facilitate secure engagement of the suture. Moreover, the smooth
transition between the leaders 200, 200' and the suture 10 can prevent snagging of the

                                                18
leader 200 in the anchor 20, such as around the suture-receiving member 26. Moreover,
because the leaders 200, 200' can be bent or hooked, they can have a smaller width than a
folded suture. This technique can thus prevent the need to fold the suture 10 and then pull
the folded portion of the suture 10 through the lumen 22. Moreover, the relative diameters
of the suture 10 and the leaders 200, 200' can allow the pre-bent leaders 200, 200' to more
easily fit within the lumen 22 of the anchor 20. As previously mentioned, the outer
diameter of the overlapping region can be less than two times the outer diameter of the
strand of suture. The outer diameter of the leading end of the leader 200 can be smaller
than the outer diameter of the suture strand 10, such as two times smaller. This can be
advantageous when the suture leaders 200, 200' and the suture 10 are being threaded
through the lumen 22 of the anchor 20, as shown. FIG. 12 shows the suture 10 threaded
completely through the anchor 20 and the leaders positioned outside of the anchor, with the
suture 10 extending around the suture-engaging member 26. Because the terminal ends
10a, 10b of the suture 10 are pulled through the anchor 20 using the leaders 200, 200', it is
possible to thread the suture 10 around the suture-engaging member 26 while having a
small diameter DL lumen relative to the diameter of the suture 10. A person skilled in the
art will appreciate that a single leader can be used to pull multiple ends of one or more
sutures.
[0055]          In one embodiment, the leader 100 can be removed from the terminal end
1Oa of the suture 10 after the suture is threaded through a suture anchor. Removal can be
achieved in various ways, such as by relieving any tension applied and grasping the trailing
and of the leader to slide the leader off of the suture. Where the suture leader 100 and
suture 10 are fixed at one or more discrete locations, such as with welds, a manual force
can be sufficient to break the bonds to allow the suture 10 to be removed from the leader
100. Alternatively, the suture leader 100 can be removed from the suture 10 by cutting the
suture 10 at a location distal to the leader 100.
[0056]          With the suture 10 threaded through the suture anchor 20, the suture anchor
20 can be deployed into the bone using various techniques. For example, the suture anchor
20 can be positioned on a distal end of a driver, and the driver can be rotated to force the
suture anchor through the bone, such as through the bone tunnel previously described. The
suture 10 can be tensioned to draw the tissue toward the suture anchor 20 either prior to,

                                               19
during, or subsequent to driving the suture anchor 20 into the bone. When the suture
anchor 20 is fully seated in the bone, it can extend at least through cortical bone or through
cortical bone and cancellous bone. After the suture 10 is tensioned to pull the tissue
toward the bone, trailing ends of the suture can be tied off or otherwise secured to maintain
contact between the tissue and the bone.
[0057]          One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the
invention based on the above-described embodiments. Accordingly, the invention is not to
be limited by what has been particularly shown and described, except as indicated by the
appended claims. Further, although the systems, devices, and methods provided for herein
are generally directed to surgical techniques, at least some of the systems, devices, and
methods can be used in applications outside of the surgical field. All publications and
references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[0058]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0059]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0060]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013231049. The full disclosure of AU 2013231049 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                               20
CLAIMS
1.        A suture, comprising:
          at least one suture strand; and
          a biocompatible suture leader having a first terminal end portion that is mated to a
terminal end portion of the at least one suture strand, the suture leader having an outer
diameter along at least a portion of a length thereof that is less than a maximum outer
diameter of the at least one suture strand, and the suture leader including a pre-formed
crease therein such that the suture leader is bent in a resting state.
2.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the first terminal end portion of the suture leader is
configured to collapse around the terminal end portion of the at least one suture strand
when a pulling force is applied to the suture leader.
3.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the terminal end portion of the at least one suture
strand is disposed within an inner passageway in the first terminal end portion of the suture
leader.
4.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the suture leader includes a second terminal end
portion having an outer diameter that is less than one half an outer diameter of the at least
one suture strand.
5.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the suture leader is detachably mated to the suture
strand.
6.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the at least one suture strand comprises a single
suture strand having first and second terminal end portions that are received within the first
terminal end portion of the suture leader.
7.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the at least one suture strand comprises first and
second suture strands, and a first terminal end of the first suture strand and a second
terminal end of the second suture strand are received in the first terminal end portion of the
suture leader.

                                                21
8.        A suture, comprising:
          a first length of biocompatible suture strand having leading and trailing ends; and
          a biocompatible suture leader having a lumen extending at least partially
therethrough and originating at a trailing end thereof, the suture leader having an outer
diameter along at least a portion thereof that is less than a maximum outer diameter of the
first length of suture strand;
          wherein the leading end of the first length of suture is disposed within the lumen
in the trailing end of the suture leader such that a force applied to a leading end of the
suture leader causes the trailing end of the suture leader to contract and engage the leading
end of the suture strand.
9.        The suture of claim 8, further comprising a second length of biocompatible suture
strand having a leading end disposed within the lumen of the suture leader.
10.       The suture of claim 8, wherein the suture leader further comprises a pre-formed
hook therein.
11.       The suture of claim 8, wherein the trailing end of the suture leader is configured to
contract around the suture strand when a tensile force is applied to the suture leader.
12.       The suture of claim 8, wherein the suture leader comprises a braided structure.
13.       The suture of claim 8, wherein the suture leader has a color contrasted from a
color of the suture strand to visually distinguish the suture leader from the suture strand.
14.       The suture of claim 8, wherein the suture leader and the suture strand are fixedly
coupled at one or more discrete locations.
15.       A method for threading suture into a suture anchor, comprising
          positioning a threader loop within a crease pre-formed in a suture leader such that
the suture leader is hooked onto the threader loop; and
          pulling the threader loop to pull the suture leader through a lumen in a suture
anchor, the suture leader having a suture attached to a first trailing end thereof and the

                                                22
suture leader collapsing around the suture as the suture leader is pulled through the suture
anchor.
16.       The method of claim 15, wherein pulling the suture leader causes at least a portion
of the suture leader to radially collapse around the suture.
17.       The method of claim 15, wherein pulling the threader loop comprises pulling the
threader loop distally through the lumen, around a suture-receiving member in the suture
anchor, and proximally through the lumen.
18.       The method of claim 15, further comprising detaching the suture leader from the
suture strand after the suture leader is pulled through the suture anchor.
19.       The method of claim 15, further comprising, prior to pulling the threader loop
through the suture anchor, positioning the threader loop within a crease pre-formed in a
second suture leader, the second suture leader being attached to a second trailing end of the
suture.
20.       The method of claim 19, wherein pulling the threader loop decreases outer
diameters of the first and second suture leaders such that the first and second suture leaders
are dimensioned to pass through an eyelet formed in the suture anchor.
21.       The method of claim 15, wherein the suture leader has a first suture and a second
suture attached to the first trailing end thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
