ABSTRACT
                                                               1   2       3
The invention relates to compounds of Formula I, wherein R , R , and R are defined in the
specification, useful for the synthesis of novel conjugates and immunogens derived from
aripiprazole. The invention also relates to conjugates of an aripiprazole hapten and a protein.

              HAPTENS OF ARIPIPRAZOLE AND THEIR USE IN IMMUNOASSAYS
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013306015,
which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims priority of the benefits of the filing of U.S. Provisional Application Serial
No. 61/691,450, filed August 21, 2012. The complete disclosures of the aforementioned related
U.S. patent application is/are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The invention relates to the field of immunoassays for determining the presence of aripiprazole
in human biological fluids.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Schizophrenia is a chronic and debilitating psychiatric disorder affecting approximately 0.45-1
% of the world's population (van Os, J.; Kapur, S. "Schizophrenia" Lancet 2009, 374, 635-645).
The principal goals of treatment are to achieve sustained remission from psychotic symptoms,
reduce the risk and consequences of relapse, and improve patient functioning and overall
quality of life. While many patients with schizophrenia are able to achieve symptom stability
with the available antipsychotic medications, poor adherence to medication is a common
reason for relapse with daily administered oral medications. Several studies (Abdel-Baki, A.;
Ouellet-Plamondon, C.; Malla, A. "Pharmacotherapy Challenges in Patients with First-Episode
Psychosis" Journal of Affective Disorders 2012, 138, S3-S1 4) investigating the outcomes of
non-compliance have shown that patients with schizophrenia who do not take their medication
as prescribed have higher rates of relapse, hospital admission and suicide as well as
increased mortality. It is estimated that 40 to 75% of patients with schizophrenia have difficulty
adhering to a daily oral treatment regimen (Lieberman, J. A.; Stroup, T. S.; McEvoy, J. P.;
Swartz, M. S.; Rosenheck, R. A.; Perkins, D. 0.; Keefe, R. S. E.; Davis, S. M.; Davis, C. E.;
Lebowitz, B. D.; Severe, J.; Hsiao, J. K. "Effectiveness of Antipyschotic Drugs in Patients with
Chronic Schizophrenia" New England Journal of Medicine 2005, 353(12), 1209
1223).Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is the quantification of serum or plasma
concentrations of drugs, including

anti-psychotic drugs, for treatment monitoring and optimization. Such monitoring permits, for
example, the identification of patients that are not adhering to their medication regimen, that are
not achieving therapeutic doses, that are non-responsive at therapeutic doses, that have
suboptimal tolerability, that have pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, or that have abnormal
metabolism resulting in inappropriate plasma concentrations. Considerable individual variability
exists in the patient's ability to absorb, distribute, metabolize, and excrete anti-psychotic drugs
Such differences can be caused by concurrent disease, age, concomitant medication or genetic
peculiarities. Different drug formulations can also influence the metabolism of anti-psychotic
drugs. T.DM permits dose optimization for individual patients, improving therapeutic and
functional outcomes. TDM further permits a prescribing clinician to ensure compliance with
prescribed dosages and achievement of effective serum concentrations.
To date, methods for determining the levels of serum or plasma concentrations of anti-psychotic
drugs involve the use of liquid chromatography (LC) with LV or mass spectrometry detection,
and radioimmunoassays (see, for example, Woestenborghs et al.. 1990 "On the selectivity of
some recently developed RIA's" in Methodological Surveys in Biochemistry and Analysis
20:241-246. Analysis of Drugs and Metabolites, Including Ani-infective Agents: Heykants et
al, 1994 "The Pharmacokinetics of Risperidone in Humans: A Summary". J Clin Psychiatry
55/5, suppl:1 3-17; Huang et al., 1993 "Pharmacokinetics of the novel anti-psychotic agent
risperidone and the prolactin response in healthy subjects', Clin Pharmnacol Ther 54:257-268).
Radioimmunoassays detect one or both of risperidone and paliperidone, Salamone et alt in US
Patent No. 8,088,594 disclose a competitive immunoassay for risperidone using antibodies that
detect both risperidone and paliperidone but not pharmacologically inactive metabolites. The
antibodies used in the competitive immunoassay are developed against a particular immunogen.
ID Labs Inc. (London, Ontario, Canada) markets an ELISA for olanzapine, another anti
psychotic drug, which also utilizes a competitive format. The instructions For Use indicate that
the assay is designed for screening purposes and intended for forensic or research use, and is
specifically not intended for therapeutic use. The Instructions recommend that all positive
samples should be confirmed with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and
indicate that the antibody used detects olanzapine and clozapine (see ID Labs Inc., "Instructions
For Use Data Sheet IDEL-F083", Rev. Date Aug. 8, 2011). Some of these methods, namely
                                                    2

HPLC and GC/MS, can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are generally only performed in
large or specialty labs having the appropriate equipment.
A need exists for other methods for determining the levels of anti-psychotic drugs, particularly
methods that can be performed in a prescribing clinician's office (where the treatment for an
individual patient can be adjusted accordingly in a much more timely manner) and in other
medical settings lacking LC or GC/MS equipment or requiring rapid test results.
Aripiprazole is:
      H
 O N             0   '
          -.               N             Cl
                                    N         CI
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
lhe subject invention provides compounds and conjugates that permit such an improved method
for determining the levels of the anti-psychotic drug aripiprazole.
The invention comprises compounds of Formula 1:
      R$
 O N             O       .X---N          Cl
                                RN            Cl
Formula I
wherein:
                                      0O
                                                   N          OH
R' is H,                    ,                        0      O       CH 2NFz,
CI12NHC(O)(ClH)m1 COI'2,      or Z-(Y),-G
                                                 3

                  0    0
                  N        -N
               H                N          OH
R2 is                              0     O      , N,   NHC(O)(CHb),CO),21, or Z-(Y)-G;
iR is 1H, or W-(Y)-G; provided that two ofR1 , R', R must be H1, and further provided that R', R2
and R1 may not all be 14 simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R 4)-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-  -thioalkyl, -heteroalkyl, -alkylcarbonyl,
   O           O              R4              0
                      4  -
                         A      /z4N-NH-           NH-NH
   O           OR4  ,    0    ,
 wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-. -aminoaikyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl, -alkylcarbonyl-;
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group. aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted aryl
group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0 or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2 , 3, 4 ,or 5.
The invention comprises conjugates of compounds of the invention with immunogenic carriers
such as proteins, and products produced by the process of contacting the compounds of the
invention with immunogenic carriers.
                                                     4

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Fig. I shows Competition ELISA results generated with hybridoma 3C1;
Fig. 2 shows Competition ELISA results generated with hybridoma 3D7;
Fig. 3 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow assay device and
Figs. 4 and 5 show the results generated with capture antibody aripiprazole clone 5C7 on the
lateral flow assay device.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
The subject invention provides compounds and conjugates that permit the determination of levels
of anti-psychotic drugs. Such methods will permit clinicians to evaluate objectively at an
appointment how likely it is that the worsening of a patient's symptoms may be due to lack of
adherence. Alternatively, if compliant, a clinician can consider a different treatment choice.
Therapeutic drug monitoring, which is enabled by such methods, is key in identi fying the most
effective treatment options. Moreover, clinicians believe that such TDM will help them to move
into a very different relationship with their patients, i.e., to move from a hypothetical discussion
on treatment non-adherence towards a more collaborative one by engaging patients to actively
take ownership in optimizing their treatment regimen.
The development of the method requires first the synthesis of several immunogens. comprising a
synthetic hapten linked to a protein. A hapten is a small molecule that can elicit an inune
response when attached to a large carrier such as a protein. They are protein-free substances, of
mostly low molecular weight, which are not capable of stimulating antibody formation alone, but
which do react with antibodies. A hapten-protein conjugate is able to stimulate the production of
antibodies. Specific antibody generation against small molecules is useful for immunoassay
development (PharnRes. 1992, 9(11):1375-9, Annali Dell'stituto Superiore di Sanlta. 1991,
27(1):167-74, Annali Dell'IstitutoSuperiore di Sanita. 1991, 27(1):149-54, Immunology
Letters.1991, 28(t):79-83).
                                                  5

 Ihe invention comprises compounds of Formula 1:
 o    N           O           N          CI
          RN                                  Cl
Formula I
wherein:
                                      0    O
                        N                        N)O
R' is H,      H                                      O     O      , CH2NH 2 ,
CH2N HC(O)(Cl [)       CO 2 f, or Z-(Y),G;
               0     O
             NN                          O
R2 is H,                              O       NH 2. NHC(Q)(CH2)mCO2H, or Z-(Y),G;
R3 is H, or W-(Y),-G; provided that two of R', R2 , R3 must be H1, and further provided that R', R2
and R3 may not all be [1 simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R')-, -0,    -S, -alkyl-,alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalky),-ethioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, alkylcarbonyl-,
   O        aR4
                -    -             N-NH-       _NH-NH-j
      S     OR4             ,
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -aLkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -arninoalkyl, -thioalkv-, -heteroalkyl,  -alkylcarbonyl
Rf is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group. aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted aryl
group:
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
                                                 6

pis 0, or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1 2. 3, 4, or 5.
Another embodiment of the invention comprises compounds of Formula 1:
wherein:
                                      0   0
                        N                          N -I        OH
R' is H,       H            0                         0     0       CH 2NH 2 ,
CH 2 NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),G;
                O     0
                N         N
                  H             N,
                                           H
 2
R is 11 ,                             O      ,NH 2, NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2 H, or Z-(Y),-G;
R is H, provided that either R or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R' and R2 may
not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4)-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
   0         0                R4
          PLI
           4 -1            I       N-NH-        N-NH
   O    , OR           0,     ,
R is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted aryl
group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2,3,4, r 5.
                                                 7

Another embodiment of the invention comprises compounds of Formula 1:
wherein:
RI is H, or CHNH-(Y),-G;
R2 is H, or NH-(Y)rG;
R is H, provided that either R or R2 must be H. and further provided that both Ri and R2 may
not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1.
Another embodiment of the invention comprises compounds of Formula T:
wherein:
                                    0    O
                       NVNN                                   OH
R' is H,                 0.                                       CH 2NH2, or
CH 2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO2H;
                 0O
              NN
              HNe
                                       OH
R2 is H,                          0        , Nit, or NHC(O)(CH 2)1 COsH: provided that either
R' or R2 must be H and further provided that both R' and R2 mav not be H simultaneously;
R3 is H;
m is 1. 2, 3, 4, or 5:
n is I, 2. 3. 4, or 5.
In another embodiment of the invention:
R' is H, CH2NH 2 , or CH 2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H; R is H, NfH2, or NHC(O)(CH2CO2H;
provided that either R' or R' must be H, and further provided that both R' and R2 may not be H
simultaneously;
                                                8

R 3is H;
m is 1, 2 or 3;
n is 1 2 or 3.
In another embodiment of the invention:
R' is H, CH 2NH2, or CH 2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO2H;
R 2 is H, NH 2 , or NHC(O)(CH,),CO2H; provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further
provided that both R and R, may not be H simultaneously;
R is H;
 n is 2;
n is 2.
Another embodiment of the invention is a compound selected from the group consisting of:
       H
 0     N           O -'"     N        Cl
                                  N        Cl
          NH2
      OH NO
                                    N      C
        N                                                   ,
           OON                    N   Cl     C
                                      N    NH
       H
 O    N            (Or'%Nzt           C       9
                                                     0
                                        1
                H                                       O
             0                             N
                                 ON
                                           H
                                              9

                  H
            O     N        O                       GlC
            0                            ON              CI
HO
    O          H                                            and
               H
          O    N         O
          0N                                          Cf
    A       eH pe
A preferred embodiment of the invention is the compound:
     H
0   ,N          O            N        Cl
        NH2                        N6
Another preferred embodiment of the invention is the compound:
     H
0O
                                 N         Ci
                                 ON         NH 2
                                       &NH2.
The invention further provides conjugates of the above compounds with an immunogenic carrier.
                                               10

Another embodiment of the invention is thus a conjugate of the compound of Formula I
 o     N                        N        CI
           RN                                 Cl
Formula I
wherein:
                                     0   0
                                                               O
               N                   HOH              N~
R'is H,                                                     O,    , CHN0
CH2NH C(O)(Cf [);,CO02H1 or Z-(Y),-G;
                0    O
                w       N
R is H,                         6      O     ,NH 2, NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),G;
R3 is H, or W-(Y),-G; provided that two of R', R2 , R3 must be H1, and further provided that R', R2
and R3 may not all be [1 simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-NRW-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -a[koxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thicalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, alkylcarbonyl-,
   O         aR4
                   -             -N-NH-         NH-NH-j
         ,   OR 4 ,        ,
-R 4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted aryl group;
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyaikyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkvl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
                                                 11

pis 0, or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1 2. 1 4, or 5: and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of the compound of Formula I
wherein:
                                      0   0
                  0 0           Ik- NO
                        N                            N          OH
R' is H,       H                                       0     0     ,CH 2NH 2 ,
CH 2 NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),G;
                 0    0
                                NHOH
R2 is H,                               0         N     NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCOH, or Z-(Y)
provided that either R' or Rt must be Ii, and further provided that both R' and R2 may not be H
simultaneously;
R3 is H;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-NR'-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
   o         0                R4             0
  4-A1 141A Fri                tN-NHI         frNH-jH
   O    ,    OR        O
                       0,
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
o is a fmctional    linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is Oor1;
                                                  12

m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1 2. 1 4, or 5: and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of the compound of Formula I
wherein:
R' is H, or CH 2NH-(Y),-G:
R2 is H, or NH-(Y),-G;
Ri is H, provided that either R' or R2 must be H. and further provided that both R' and R2 may
not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1; and an immunogenic carner.
                                                13

Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of the compound of Formula I
wherein:
                                     O    O
                            N                      N          OH
R' is H,        H              ,                     0             ,ClNH2 ,
CH 2NHC(O)(CH,)mCO 2 H;
                 0   0
                 N~N%
                                NHO
R2 is, 1,                                    Nt,, NHlC(O)(C1    2)mCO2 1:
provided that either R' or R2 must be 11, and further provided that both R' and R2 may not be I
simultaneously;
R' is H;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of the compound of Formula I
wherein:
R' is H, CH2NH, or CH 2NHC(O)(CH,)mCO 2 H;
R2 is H, NH, or NHC(O)(CH 2).CO2 H; provided that either R' or R' must be H, and further
provided that both R' and R' may not be H simultaneously;
m is 1, 2 or 3;
n is 1 2 or 3; and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of the compound of Formula I
 wherein:
R' is H, CH 2NH2, or CH 2 NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO2H;
R is H, NH 2 , or NHC(O)(CH 2).CO2H; provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further
provided that both R and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
m is 2;
                                                 14

n is 2; and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound selected from the group
consisting of:
       H
O      N        O    -      N        CI
                                 N           C1
         NH2
       H
ON               ON                  CI
                                             NH2
         O                  ONN              C1
       H
   O     N                    N N            CI
               ON
                                    bN                   OH
                                             H
                                                       0
             NN                           Cl
                                                0
      0N
       N                               N           C''N
                                             HO
                  Oa
             o    N     O
             NON H                                  Cl
     o          H                                          and
               H
           0   N       0
                         -'    -      N.'          CI
 0           H                                           and an immunogenic carrier.
                                                15

A preferred embodiment of the invention is any of the above coniugates wherein the
immuogenic carrier is a protein.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is any of the above conjugates, wherein said protein is
keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin or bovine thyroglobulin.
The invention also provides products formed from the process of contacting the above
compounds with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is thus a product formed from the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
      R3
   0 ,N          O            N         CI
      ON                                     CN
Formula 1
wherein:
                                   0    0
                     N
R' is H,                0                          0              , CH 2NH,
CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2 H, or Z-(Y),G;
               0   0
                            N    t      OH
R2 is H,                       0     0       NTz, NHfC(O)(CH4i)mCO2H, or Z-(Y)rG;
R is H, or W-(Y),G; provided that two of R', R2 , R3 must be 14, and further provided that R', R2
and R may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-NR'-, -O-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl, -heteroalkyl-, aikylcarbonyl-,
                                               16

   0                          R             0
          HI]4
          V         [-Tr--]     tN-NHA           NH-NH
   o    ,     OR ,
-R is H, an alkyl group, cyckalkyl group or substituted or substituted aryl group;
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -hiioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkyicarbonyl-;
Y is an organic spacer group;
* is a fnctional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
 n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is I, 2, 3, 4. or 5; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product formed from the process of contacting a
compound of Fonnula I
wherein:
                                       0   O
                        nNNNOH
R' is H,                                               O            , NH 2 ,
CH NHC(O)(CH)mCO 2 Hl, or Z-(Y),G;
                  0   0
               H                 N        O
R2 is H,                           0    0     , NH 2 . NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)-G;
provided that either R or R' must be H, and further provided that both R and R may not be H
simultaneously;
R3 is H;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-NW, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl- -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
                                                 17

    0         0               R
    O      H ORR
           I-SI-A4    -T-         N-NH-j       NH-NH
    0    ,    ORW,     O
R4 is H, an aikyt group, cycloalkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted aryl group:
Y is all organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; with an immunogenic cancer.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product forced from the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
wherein:
R ' is H1, or CI12NH-(Y),-G:
R2 is H1, or NH-(Y),-G;
R is H4, provided that either R or R must be l, and further provided that both R' and R may
not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1; with an immunogernic carrier.
                                                18

Another embodiment of the invention is a product formed from the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
wherein:
                                     0   0
                   0
CH 2 NHC(O)(CH2)mCO2H;           NHO
R2 is H,                         0   0      , NHl2, NHC(O)(CH2)O      2H
provided that either R' or R2 must be [1, and further provided that both R' and R2 may not be IH
simultaneously;
R is H:
m is 1, 2,3,4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product formed from the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
wherein:
R' is H, CH 2NH2 , or CH 2NHC(O)(CH2 )mCO2 H;
R2 is H, NH 2, or NHC(0)(CH 2),CO2H; provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further
provided that both R' and R 2 may not be H simultaneously;
m is I, 2 or 3;
n is I, 2 or 3; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product formed from the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
 wherein:
RI is H, CH 2NH 2 , or CH 2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO2H;
                                                 19

R2 is H, Nil?, or NH(:(O)(CH),CO 2H; provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further
provided that both R' and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
m is 2;
n is 2; with an immunogenic carrier.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is a product formed from the process of contacting the
compound
                H
           O   ,N        O     -     N          Cl
             N                            N         CE
 o           H                                          with an immunogenic carrier.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is a product formed from the process of contacting the
compound
                       H
                       N"       O'-          N         Cl
                      NN                                    Ci
   'N-O~
    K0
 with an immunogenic carrier.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is a product formed from the process of contacting the
compound
       H
         0                   N          l
                                  N-C-ONO
                                 ON                   0-+
                                                         O     wherein m is 2 or 3; with an
immunogenic carrier.
                                              20

A preferred embodiment of the invention is any of the above products wherein the immunogenic
carrier is a protein.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is any of the above products, wherein said protein is
keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin or bovine thyroglobulin.
ABBREVIATIONS
Herein and throughout the application, the following abbreviations may be used.
AIBN                                         azobisisobutyronitile
AMAS                                         N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy)succinimide ester
BTG                                          bovine thyroglobulin
Bu3 N                                        tributylamine
DMF                                          NN-dimethylformamide
EDTA                                         ethylenediaminetetraaceticacid
EtOH                                         ethyl alcohol
KLHI                                         keyhole limpet hemocyanin
NBS                                          N-bromo succinimide
SATA                                         N-succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate
TIIF                                         tetahydrofuran
TFA                                          trifluoroacetic acid
DCC                                          dicyclohexylearbodiimide
DIC                                          diisopropylcarbodiimide
DMAP                                         N,N-ditnethvl-4-aminopyridinc
EDC                                          I -ethvl-3(3-dinethylaminopropyl)
                                             carbodiinidehydrochloride
NHS                                          N-hydroxysuccinimide
TFP                                          Tetrafluorophenyl
PNP                                          p-nitrophenyl
TBTU                                         O-(Benzotriazol- I -yl)-NN,N',N'
                                             tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate
                                                21

HOBT                                            N-Hydroxybenzotriazolc
DEPBT                                           3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)- 1,2,3-benzotrazin
                                                4(3H)-one
BOP-Cl                                          Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic chloride
DTT                                             dithioerythritol
DEFINITIONS
The term "conjugate" refers to any substance formed from the joining together of separate parts.
Representative conjugates in accordance with the present invention include those formed by the
joining together of a small molecule, such as the compounds of Formula I, and a large molecule,
such as a carrier or a polyamine polymer, particularly a protein. In the conjugate the small
molecule may be joined at one or more active sites on the large molecule.
The term "hapten" refers to a partial or incomplete antigen. A hapten is a protein-free substance,
which is not capable of stimulating antibody formation, but which does react with antibodies.
The antibodies are formed by coupling a hapten to a high molecular weight immunogenic carrier,
and then injecting this coupled product, i.e., an immunogen, into a human or animal subject.
The term "immunogen" refers to a substance capable of eliciting, producing, or generating an
munune response in an organism.
An "immunogenic carrier." as used herein, is an immunogenic substance, commonly a protein,
that can join at one or more positions with haptens, thereby enabling the production of antibodies
that can bind specifically with these haptens. Examples of immunogenic carrier substances
include, but are not limited to, proteins. glycoproteins, complex polyamino-polysaccharides,
particles, and nucleic acids that are recognized as foreign and thereby elicit an immunologic
response from the host. The polyamino-polysaccharidcs may be prepared from polysaccharides
using any of the conventional means known for this preparation.
 Various protein types may be employed as immunogenic carriers, including without limitation,
albumins, serum proteins, lipoproteins, etc. Illustrative proteins include bovine serum albumin,
                                                  22

keyhole limpet hemocyanin, egg ovalbumin, bovine thyroglobulin, fraction V human serum
albumin, rabbit albumin, pumpkin seed globulin, diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, botilinus
toxin, succinylated proteins, and synthetic poly(aminoacids) such as polylysine.
Immunogenic carriers can also include poly amino-polysaccharides, which are a high molecular
weight polymers built up by repeated condensations of monosaccharides. Examples of
polysaccharides arc starches, glycogen, cellulose, carbohydrate gums such as gum arabic, agar,
and so forth. The polysaccharide also contains poly(amino acid) residues and/or lipid residues.
The immunogenic carrier can also be a poly(nucleic acid) either alone or conjugated to one of the
above mentioned polyamino acids) or polysaccharides.
The immunogenic carrier can also include solid particles. The particles are generally at least
about 0.02 microns (pm) and not more than about 100 pma, and usually about 0.05 ptm to 10 pm
in diameter. The particle can be organic or inorganic, swellable or non-swellable, porous or non
porous, optimally of a density approximating water, generally from about 0.7 to 1.5 g/mL, and
composed of material that can be transparent, partially transparent, or opaque. The particles can
be biological materials such as cells and microorganisms, including non-limiting examples such
as erythrocytes, leukocytes, lymphocytes. hybridomas, Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, E.
coli, and viruses. The particles can also be comprised of organic and inorganic polymers,
liposomes, latex, phospholipid vesicles, or lipoproteins.
The term "derivative" refers to a chemical compound or molecule made from a parent compound
by one or more chemical reactions.
The term "analogue" of a chemical compound refers to a chemical compound that contains a
chain of carbon atoms and the same particular fumetional groups as a reference compound, but
the carbon chain of the analogue is longer or shorter than that of the reference compound.
A "label," "detector molecule," "reporter" or "detectable marker" is any molecule which
produces, or can be induced to produce, a detectable signal. The label can be conjugated to an
analyte, immunogen, antibody, or to another molecule such as a receptor or a molecule that can
                                                23

bind to a receptor such as a ligand. particularly a hapten or antibody. Non-limiting examples of
labels include radioactive isotopes (e.g.,    1), enzymes (e.g,, p-galactosidase, peroxidase),
enzyme fragments, enzyme substrates, enzyme inhibitors, coenzymes, catalysts, fluorophores
(e.g., rhodamine, fluorescein isothiocyanate or FITC. or Dylight 649), dyes, chemiuinnescers
and luminescers (e.g., dioxetanes, luciferin), or sensitizers.
As used herein, a "spacer" refers to a portion of a chemical structure which connects two or more
substructures such as haptens, carriers, immunogens, labels or binding partners through a
functional linking group. These spacer groups are composed of the atoms typically present and
assembled in ways typically found in organic compounds and so may be referred to as "organic
spacing groups". The chemical building blocks used to assemble the spacers will be described
hereinafter in this application. Among the preferred spacers are straight or branched, saturated or
unsaturated carbon chains. These carbon chains may also include one or more heteroatoms
within the chain one or more heteroatorns replacing one or more hydrogens of any carbon atom
in the chain, or at the termini of the chains. By "heteroatoms" is meant atoms other than carbon
which are chosen from the group consisting of oxygen. nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur,
wherein the nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur atoms may exist in any oxidation state and may
have carbon or other heteroatoms bonded to them, The spacer may also include cyclic or
aromatic groups as part of the chain or as a substitution on one of the atoms in the chain.
The number of atoms in the spacing group is determined by counting the atoms other than
hydrogen, The number of atoms in a chain within a spacing group is determined by counting the
number of atoms other than hydrogen along the shortest route between the substructures being
connected. Preferred chain lengths are between I to 20 atoms.
A "functional linking group" refers to a reactive group that is present on a hapten and may be
used to provide an available reactive site through which the hapten portion may be coupled to
another moiety through formation of a covalent chemical bond to produce a conjugate of a
hapten with another moiety (such as a label or carrier). The hapten may be linked in this way to
a moiety such as biotin to form a competitive binding partner for the hapten.
                                                   24

Spacer groups may be used to link the hapten to the carrier. Spacers of different lengths allow
one to attach the hapten with differing distances from the carrier for presentation to the immune
system of the animal or human being immunized for optimization of the antibody formation
process. Attachment to different positions in the hapton molecule allows the opportunity to
present specific sites on the hapten to the immune system to influence antibody recognition. The
spacer may contain hydrophilic solubilizing groups to make the hapten derivative more soluble
in aqueous media. Examples of hydrophilic solubilizing groups include but are not limited to
polyoxyalkyloxy groups, for example, polyethylene glycol chains; hydroxyl, carboxylate and
sulfonate groups.
The term "nucleophilic group" or "nucleophile" refers to a species that donates an electron-pair
to form a chemical bond in a reaction. The term "electrophilic group" or "electrophile" refers to
a species that accepts an electron-pair from a nucleophile to form a chemical bond in a reaction.
The term "substituted" refers to substitution of an atom or group of atoms in place of a hydrogen
atom on a carbon atom in any position on the parent molecule. Non limiting examples of
substituents include halogen atoms, amino, hydroxy. carboxy, alkyl, aryl, heteroalkyl, heteroaryl,
cyano, alkoxy, nitro, aldehyde and ketone groups.
The term "alkyl" refers to saturated or unsaturated linear and branched chain radicals of up to 12
carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated, and is specifically intended to include radicals having
any degree or level of saturation . Alkyl includes, but is not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl:
isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, see-butyl, tert-butyl. pentyl, isopentyl, hexyl. isohexyl, heptyl, octyl,
2.2,4-trimethylpentyl, nonyt, decyl, undecyl and dodecyL
The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic
hydrocarbon ring radical composed of from 3 to 10 carbon atoms. Alkyl substituents may
optionally be present on the ring. Examples include cyclopropyl, 1,1 -dimethyl cyclobutyl, 1,23
trimethylcyclopentyl. cyclohexyl and cyclohexenyl.
                                                  25

The term "heteroatom" refers to a nitrogen atom, an oxygen atom, a phosphorous atom or a
sulfur atom wherein the nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur atoms can exist in any allowed
oxidation states.
The term "heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group that includes one or more heteroatoms within the
chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more hydrogens of any carbon atom in the
chain, or at termini of the chains.
The term "heterocyclyl" refers to a nonaromatic (i.e. saturated or partially unsaturated) ring
composed of from 3 to 7 carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom selected from N, 0 or S.
Alkyl substituemus may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include tetrahydrofuryl,
dihydropyranyl, piperidyl, 2,5-dimethypiperidyl, morpholinyl, piperazinyl, tiomorpholinyl,
pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, pyrazolidinyl, pyrazolinyl, imidazolidinyl and imidazolinyl.
The term "hydroxyalkylr refers to at least one hydroxyl group bonded to any carbon atom along
an alkyl chain.
The term "aminoalkyl" refers to at least one primary or secondary amino group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
The term "alkoxy" refers to straight or branched chain radicals of up to 12 carbon atoms, unless
otherwise indicated, bonded to an oxygen atom. Examples include but are not limited to
methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy and butoxy.
The term "alkoxyalkyl" refers to at least one alkoxy group bonded to any carbon atom along an
alkyl chain.
The term "polyalkoxvalkyl" refers to long-chain alkoxy compounds and includes polyethylene
glycols of discreet or monodispersed sizes.
                                                 26

The term "thioalkyl" refers to at least one sulfur group bonded to any carbon atom along an alkyl
chain. The sulfur group may be at any oxidation state and includes sulfoxides, sulfones and
sulfates.
The term "carboxyalkyl" refers to at least one carboxylate group bonded to any carbon atom
along an alkyl chain. The term "carboxylate group" includes carboxylic acids and alkyl,
cycloalkyl, aryl or aralkyi carboxylate esters.
The term "alkylcarbonyi" refers to a group that has a carbonyl group bonded to any carbon atom
along an alkyl chain.
The term "heteroary]" refers to 5~ to 7-membered mono~ or 8- to l0-membered bicyclic aromatic
ring radicals, any ring of which may consist of from one to four heteroatoms selected from N. 0
or S where the nitrogen and sulfur atoms can exist in any allowed oxidation state, Examples
include benzimidazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzothienyt, benzoxazolyl, furyl, imidazolyl,
isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxazolvi, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, quinolinyl,
tihiazolyl and thienyl
The term "aryl" refers to monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring radicals containing from 6 to 12
carbons in the ring. Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include
phenyl, biphenyl and napththalene.
The term "aralkyl" refers to a C- 6 alkyl group containing an aryl substituent. Examples include
benzyl, phenylethyl or 2-naphthylmethyl.
The term "acyl" refers to the group -C(O)R, where R, is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl.,
heteroalkyl, aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl. An "acylating agent" adds the -C(O)R, group to a
molecule.
                                                 27

The term "suifonyl" refers to the group -S(O)2Rb, where Rt is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl,
heteroalkyl, hialoalkyl, aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl. A "sulfonylating agent" adds the -S(O)2 R,
group to a molecule.
Spacers bearing reactive functional linking groups for the attachment ofhaptens to carrier
moieties may be prepared by a wide variety of methods. The spacer may be formed using a
molecule that is differentially functionalized or activated with groups at either end to allow
selective sequential reaction with the hapten and the carrier, but the same reactive moiety may
also be used at both ends. The groups selected for reaction with the hapten and the functional
linking group to be bound to the carrier are determined by the type of functionality on the bapten
and the carrier that the hapten is to be bonded with. Spacers and methods of attachment to
haptens and carriers include but are not limited to those described by Brinkley, M., A.,
Bioconjugale Chem. 1992. 3:2-13, Hermanson. Grog T., Bioconjugate Techniques,.Academic
Press. London, Amsterdam, Burlington, MA, USA, 2008 and Therno Scienific Pierce
Crosslinking Technical Handbook; available for download or hard copy request from Thernno
Scientific 3747 N Meridian Rd, Rockford, TL USA 61101, ph 800-874-3723 or at:
 htto://www.oiercenet.com/ and references within. Many diffierentially activated molecules for
formation of spacer groups are commercially available from vendors, for example Thermo
Scientific.
For haptens bearing an amino group, modes of attachment of the spacer to the hapten include
reaction of the amine on the hapten with a spacer building block bearing an acyl halide or active
ester. "Active esters" are defined as esters that undergo reaction with a nucleophilic group, for
example an amino group, under mild conditions to form a stable linkage. A stable linkage is
defined as one that remains intact under conditions of further use, for example subsequent
synthetic steps, use as an immrunogen, or in a biochemical assay. A preferred example of a stable
linkage is an amide bond. Active esters and methods of formation are described by Benoiton,
N.L., in Houben-Weyl, Methods of Organic Chemistry, Thieme Stuttgart, New York, vol E22
section 3.2:443 and Benoiton, N.L., Chemistry of Peptide Synthesis, Taylor and Francis, NY,
2006. Preferred active esters include p-nitrophenyl ester (PNP), N-hydroxysuccinimide ester
(NHS) and tetrafluorophenyl ester (fFP). Acyl halides may be prepared by many methods
                                                  28

known to one skilled in the art for example, reaction of the carboxylic acid with thionyl chloride
or oxalyl chloride, see: Fieser, L.F. and Fieser, M. Reagentsfor Organic Synthesis, John Wiley
and Sons, NY, 1967 and references within. These may be converted to other active esters such as
p-nitrophenyl esters (PNP) which may also be used in active bi-fiunctional spacers as described
by Wu metal, OrganicLetters, 2004 ,6 (24):4407. N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) esters may be
prepared by reaction of N,N-disuccinimidyl carbonate (CAS 74124-79-1) with the carboxylic
acid of a compound in the presence of an organic base such as triethylamine or
diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent under anhydrous conditions as described in example
35 of WO2012012595 or by using N-hydroxysuccinimide and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC)
or other dehydrating agent, under anhydrous conditions. Tetratiuorophenyl esters (TFP) may be
prepared by reaction of carboxylic acids with 2,3.5,6-tetrafluorophenyltrifluoroacetate in the
presence of an organic base such as triethylamine or duisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent
under anhydrous conditions as reported by Wilbur, et.al, Bioconiugate Chem., 2004,15(1):203.
One skilled in the art will recognize that spacers shown in Table 1, among others, can be
obtained using known methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing routine
optimization of reaction conditions. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a thiol
group on a carrier.
Table I
      <-0                                           00
       o
                                                                       Br
                                   0N
      0                                               0 00
                      -    O     O     N
                      -      0                      0    0
            00 O           N                            O  o       NH   r
                                                  29

                         00                     OC       0
        -0     nN
                                                   0
  O                                              0
            ~    H     0
         00
                                   O          Reasonable values for m and n
                  N--                         are between l and 10
    0                              N
                                     0
Direct coupling of the amine on the hapten and a carboxylic acid functionality on the spacer
building block in the presence of a coupling agent may also be used as a mode of attachment.
Preferred reagents are those typically used in peptide synthesis. Peptide coupling reagents
include but are not limited to 0-(Benzotriazol-l -yl)-N,N,NN'-tetramethyluronium
tetrafluoroborate (TBTU, CAS #125700-67-6), see: Pruhs, S., Org. Process. Res. Dev. 2006.
10:441; N-Hydroxybenzotriazole (FIOBT, CAS #2592-95-2) with a carbodiimide dehydrating
agent, for example N-N-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC), diisopropylcarbodiimide (DIC), or I
ethyl-3(3-dirnethyiaminopropyl)carbodiimidehydrochloride (EDC), see: Kinig W., Geiger, R.
Chem. Ber, 1970, 103 (3):788 ; 3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)-1,2,3-benzotrazin-4(314)-one
(DEPBT, CAS#165534-43-0), see: Liu, H. ct.al., Chinese Chemical Letrers, 2002, 13(7):601;
Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic chloride; (BOP-Cl. CAS# 68641-49-6), see: Diago
Meseguer, J et.al. Synthesis. 1980, 7:547-51 and others described in detail by Benoiton in
Chemistry of Peptide Synthesis, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2005, Chapter 2, and the technical
bulletin provided by Advanced Automated Peptide Protein Technologies (aapptec), 6309
Shepardsville Rd., Louisville KY 40228, ph 888 692 9111; ww.aaoptec.com, and references
within. These methods create a stable amide linkage attaching the hapten to the spacer.
Examples of spacers that can be obtained using known methods and attached to amino-bearing
                                                30

haptens utilizing routine optimization of reaction conditions employing the methods described
and cited above are shown, but not limited to those in Table 2. These spacers allow attachment of
the hapten to a thiol group on a carrier.
Table 2
                                       0
    0 kCcnH
   [N                                  00
                                        N
                                     !I N
                                                 'C0 2 H              <NC         O2 H
reasonable range for n is
between 1-10
Spacers may also be constructed in a step-wise fashion by sequential attachment of appropriate
chemical groups to the hapten including the step of forming the functional linking group that is
capable of binding to the carrier. See illustrative examples under General Reaction Schemes.
Additionally, when the hapten has a nucleophilic group, for example a thiol group, an amino
group or a hydroxyl group which will become the point of attachment of the spacer, the spacer
may also be constructed by alkylation of the thiol, amine or hydroxyl group. Any alkyl group
that is appropriately substituted with a moiety capable of undergoing a substitution reaction, for
example, an alkyl halide, or sulfonic acid ester such as p-Toluenesulfonate, may be used to attach
the spacer. Many examples of alkylation reactions are known to one skilled in the art and
specific examples may be found in the general chemical literature and optimized through routine
experimentation. A discussion of alkylation reactions with many references can be found in
Chapter 10 of March 's Advanced Organic Chemistry, Smith, M.B., and March, J., John Wiley &
sonls, Inc. NY, 2001. Other linkages may also be employed such as reaction of the nucleophilic
moiety, for example an amine, on the hapten with an isocyanate to form a urea or reaction with
an isothiocyanate to form a thiourea linkage, see: Li, Z., et.al., Phosphorus.Sulfur and Silicon
and the Related Elements. 2003, 178(2):293-297. Spacers may be attached to haptens bearing
hydroxyl groups via reaction with isocyanate groups to form carbamate or urethane linkages. The
spacer may be differentially activated with the isocyanate functional group on one end and a
                                                  31

functional linking group capable of reacting with the carrier, see: Annunziato, M.E., Patel, U.S.,
Ranade, M. and Palumbo, P.S., Bioconjugate Chem., 1993, 4:212-218.
For haptens bearing a carboxylic acid group, modes of attachment of a spacer portion to the
hapten include activation of the carboxylic acid group as an acyl halide or active ester, examples
of which are shown in Table 3, preparation of which are described previously, followed by
reaction with an amino (-NHr), hydrazine (-NH-NH -). hydrazido (-C(O)-NH-NH-) or
hydroxyl group (-OH) on the spacer portion to form an amide, hydrazide, diacylhydrazine or
ester linkage, or direct coupling of the carboxylic acid group with an amino group on the spacer
portion or directly on the carrier with a peptide coupling reagent and/or carbodjimide
dehydrating reagent, described previously, examples of which are shown in Tables 4 and 5.
Procedures found in references cited previously for formadon of activated esters and use of
peptide coupling agents may be employed for attachment of carboxylic acid-bearing haptens to
spacer building blocks and protein carriers with available amino groups utilizing routine
optimization of reaction conditions.
Table 3
 *Na-O3S      O4N-Oc-                  ONOO
                                   00
                                ON-OC--
                                                                  Cl             Or          NO2
              O                 O            F          F      Acyl        PNP
Sulfo NIS and NHS                            TFP               chloride
Table 4
            N                                                               (1fY     NN    BF4'
                      CC                                           O                     N(BHa
           N                         ,OVOEt         O    N   -N
          OH                         -N OEt           d    CNCa
                                                                                           N(CH 3 )
HOBT                     DEPT                      BOP-Cl                                  N(CHsh
                                                                            TBTU
Table 5
                                                 32

      NCN                              NCN     <                        NCr
                                                                -"NCNI-elthyI-3(3
diisopropylcarbodiimide      Dicyclohexytcarbodiimide          N
(DTC)                        (DCC)                        dimethylaninopropyl)carbodiiiide.HC
                                                          (ED C)
Other electrophilic groups may be present on the hapten to attach the spacer, for example, a
sulfonyl halide
    0
  -$C
 I- C0-Ci
    OR,
See: Malachowski. William P., Coward, James K., Journal of Organic Chemistry, 1994,59
(25):7616
or:
    9
    OR,
R. is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, aralkyL
See: Aliouane, L., et.al, Tetrahedron Letters, 2011, 52(28):8681.
Flaptens that beat aldehyde or ketone groups may be attached to spacers using methods including
but not limited to reaction with a hydrazide group H 2N-NH-C(O)- on the spacer to form an
acylhydrazone, see: Charnow, S.M., Kogan, T.P, Peers, D.H, Hastings, R.C., Byrn, R.A. and
Askenaszi, A., J. Biol. Chen., 1992,267(22): 15916. Examples of biftnctional hydrazide spacer
groups that allow attachment to a thiol group on the carrier are shown in Table 6.
Table 6
                                                   33

                                C0
    o                     .- NHNH2
                                                         O         NHNH2
    0
Happens may also contain thiol groups which may be reacted with the carrier provided that the
carrier has been modified to provide a group that may react with the thioL. Carrier groups may be
modified by methods including but not limited to attachment of a group containing a maleimide
functional group by reaction of an amino group on the carrier with N-Succinimidyl
maleimidoacetate, (AMAS, CAS #55750-61-3). Succinimidyl iodoacetate (CAS# 151199-81-4),
or any of the bifunctional spacer groups shown in Table I to introduce a group which may
undergo a reaction resulting in attachment of the hapten to the carrier.
The functional linking group capable of forming a bond with the carrier may be any group
capable of forming a stable linkage and may be reactive to a number of different groups on the
carrier. The functional linking group may preferably react with an amino group, a carboxylic
acid group or a thiol group on the carrier, or derivative thereof. Non-limiting examples of the
functional linking group are a carboxylic acid group, acyl halide, active ester (as defined
previously), isocyanate, isothiocyanate, alkyl halide, amino group, thiol group, maleimide
group, acrylate group (H2C=CH-C(O)-) or vinyl sulfone group H 2C=CH-S0 2 -) See: Park, J.W..
et.al., Bioconjugale Chem., 2012, 23(3): 350. The functional linking group may be present as
part of a differentially activated spacer building block that may be reacted stepwise with the
hapten and the resulting hapten derivative may then be reacted with the carrier. Alternatively,
the hapten may be derivatized with a spacer that bears a precursor group that may be transformed
into the functional linking group by a subsequent reaction. When the functional linking group on
the spacer is an amine or a carboxylic acid group, the coupling reaction with the carboxylic acid
group or amine on the carrier may be carried out directly through the use of peptide coupling
reagents according to procedures in the references cited above for these reagents.
Particular disulfide groups, for example, pyridyldisulfides, may be used as the functional linking
group on the spacer which may undergo exchange with a thiol group on the carrier to from a
                                                  34

mixed disulfide linkage, see: Ghetie, V., et al, Bioconjugate Chem., 1990, 1:24-31. These
spacers may be attached by reaction of the amine-bearing hapten with an active ester which is
attached to a spacer bearing the pyridyldisulfide group, examples of which include but are not
limited to those shown in Table 7.
Table 7
                                                N                    N
             0                          SS
    *Na '03    N'    ?lt t NH                                  O
                                00
       0
   0 ''                    No0S       SS     N0"                                   i
        I                  H                IN                Y ~}fSS          N
    4      0                                                o0
Most often the carrier is a protein and the -amino groups of the lysine residues may be used for
attachment, either directly by reaction with an amine-reactive functional linking group or after
derivitization with a thiol-containing group, including N-Succinimidyl S-Acetylthioacetate,
(SATA, CAS 76931-93-6), or an analogue thereof, followed by cleavage of the actetate group
with hydroxylamine to expose the thi      group for reaction with the functional linking group on
the hapten. Thiol groups may also be introduced into the carrier by reduction of disulfide bonds
within protein carriers with mild reducing reagents including but not limited to 2
mercaptoethylamrine, see: Bilah, M., et.aL.,.Bioelectrochemistry, 2010, 80(1):49, phosphine
reagents, see: Kirley, T.L., Analytical Bioclemiwy, 1989, 180(2):231 or dithioerythritol (DTT,
CAS 3483-12-3) Cleland, W.,Biochemistry. 1964, 3:480-482.
GENERAL REACTION SCHEMES
Representative compounds of the present invention can be synthesized in accordance with the
general synthetic methods described below. Compounds of Formula I can be prepared by
methods known to those who are skilled in the art. The following reaction schemes are only
                                                 35

meant to represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant to be a limit of the
invention.
Scheme I
                                         H0
       Ci        N                                       O
 C1N                                                           m
                Example 1           H2N
                                          H
        CI       NO                       N
  CI         N
                 N'                                     O
                                            H
The hapten of Example I may be elaborated with spacers by reaction with a cyclic anhydride
compound, such as succinic anhydride or glutaric anhydride, as shown in Scheme L. The
reaction may be carried out in a solvent such as TI IF, at room temperature, overnight.
Scheme 2
                NN
                               0        N     O        O
         CI
   CI         N                     I                            ,
 H2N              Example 2
                                                        H
            o1
            O             rN--
                  CI CNNNO0                             N
      HO        N
                H
The hapten of Example 2 may be elaborated with spacers by reaction with a cyclic anhydride
compound, such as succinic anhydride or glutaric anhydride, as shown in Scheme 2. The
reaction may be carried out in a solvent such as pyridine, and heated to about 110 C in a
microwave oven for 3-6 hours.
                                                36

Scheme 3
                                                             0     0
                                          H                  O
 CI          N                            NO
                Example I                    NH2            DMF, ButtN
                                            H
         CII                    O           N      o
         C    N      l
                                                          0
Haptens which terminate in an alkyl amine group, such as Example I may be further
fictionalized with a maleimide group. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the same
methodology will be applicable to other alkyl amino derivatives of aripiprazole. Reaction of the
aripiprazole derived amine with alkyl-maleimide functionalizing group, such as 2,5~
dioxopyn-olidin-1 -yl 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro- IH-pyrrol-l -yI)acetate, in a solvera such as DMF,
in the presence of a base, such as tributyl amine, at 20 "C, for one hour generates haptens of
aripiprazole with a maleimide spacer.
Scheme 4
                                                 37

                                          H
       CI          N                      NOO
 C 1          N                                                   HN
                                             H
                                          H
            Cl   N                        NI                           .TFA
                                             H
                                                              Os
                                            H
                     N0                     N    0
          C
                                              NC        N
                                                                0    0
Spacers on haptens may be extended as shown in Scheme 4. Haptens with spacers bearing a
carboxylic acid functionality may be dissolved in a suitable solvent, such as dichloromethane,
under inert atmosphere, and treated with N-t-butoxycarbonylpiperazine and an appropriate base,
such as diisopropylethylamine. The solution may then be treated with diethyl cyanophosphonate
to install a piperazine moiety onto the spacer. Deprotection of the piperazine may be
accomplished with trifluoroacetic acid or other methods known in the art Reaction with a cyclic
anhydride gives compounds of Formula I where R' is
        0     0
      N           N
                       NHO
                         0     a
Scheme 5
                                                 38

                                                            H
                        CI
                        C, <N-'       NN         o                O            N
         HOC                                 NAH                       FNN
                      H
                                                                  H
                                CI        N-     ",'-O            N       1. TFA
                    0    0      N                                          2
                                                     -_    _
               OlN-
                                                                        H
                CC
                                   NN                                         0
    HO,      ,NH
        o       O
Spacers on haptens may also be extended as shown in Scheme 5. Haptens with spacers bearing
carboxylic acid functionality may be dissolved in a suitable solvent, such as dichloromethane,
under inert atmosphere, and treated with N-butoxycarbonylpiperazine and an appropriate base,
such as diisopropylethylamine. The solution may then be treated with diethyl cyanophosphonate
to install a piperazine moiety onto the spacer. Deprotection of the piperazine may be
accomplished with trifluoroacetic acid or other methods known in the art, Reaction with a cyclic
anhydride gives compounds of Formula I where R2 is
       0    0
                      NOH
                        0     0
Haptens may also be generated directly from the parent molecule aripiprazole by either acylation
or alkylation of the quinolinone nitrogen. Scheme 6 depicts a synthetic route in which an acyl
group may be appended to aripiprazole by reaction with the acid chloride of 4-chlorobutyric acid
                                                39

using N,N-diniethyl-4-aminopyridine (DMAP) as a catalyst in the presence of a base such as
pyridine in an aprotic solvent, for example NN-dimethylformamide, see: Example 5,
US20110230520. Nucleophilic substitution of the chloride by N-methyl-p-alanrine methyl ester
may be carried out in the presence of sodium iodide and a base, for example potassium carbonate
in a dipolar aprotic solvent such as N,N-dimctbylfonnamidc, see: Penning, T., D., et.al. J. Med
Chem, 2002, 45:3482. Hydrolysis of the ester group using standard methods known to one
skilled in the art, such as exposure to aqueous base, yields a carboxy-functionalized hapten
which may be further elaborated using the methods described previously, one example of which
is depicted in Scheme 9 below, to provide a suitably fnctionalized compound for attachment to
an immunogenic carrier.
Scheme 6:
                                                         0
        CI         N    "    -- o          N                 CI
 CI           N                                         DMAP
                                                       Pyridine
                                                       CH2Cl,
                                                                       0
                                           OCl
                                              o-A
                                                                H
                                            NK O                 0CO
         C           Na      -   O->>.N~0Nal                   2
                                                         NN-dimethyfformamide
                                                                0
                                          o            NO                base hydrolysis
           C1        N   "'X>     O              0
                                                        N
    CIN
                                                    400
                                                40

Scheme 7 illustrates a mode of attachment of an alkyl group to the nitrogen of the quinolinone
group of aripiprazole using standard alkylation chemistry. An iodo compound, for example
methyl-4-iodobutyrate may be reacted with aripiprazole in the presence of a base such as cesium
carbonate in a dipolar aprotic solvent such as NN-dimethylformarmide using the method of
Example 6 in US20120004165. Hydrolysis of the ester group using standard methods known to
one skilled in the art, such as exposure to aqueous base, yields a carboxy-functionalized hapten
which may be further elaborated using the methods described previously, one example of which
is depicted in Scheme 9 below, to provide a suitably flunctionalized compound for attachment to
an immunogenic carrier.
Scheme 7
                                           H
       Cl    N    N                                     Cs2COs
                                                     NN-dimethylformamide
                                                    0
                                a         NCbase                hydrolysis
CI           N.
                                                    OH
       C1                                  N
          N K
Scheme 8
                                                41

                                                        H
                                    t   N,9),-0   S    CH,
         PROTEIN-NH 2                                            PROTEN-N -N         SH
                                                                             H
                                 2.    H2N-OH
                    0    Aripiprazole      PROTEIN-NH
                  N                                                      C     Aripiprazole
             a        H           NO                   P8           N nJKN)
Maleimide finctionalizcd haptens may be conjugated to proteins according to the method shown
in Scheme 8. Activation of protein lysine residues by acylation of the epsilon-nitrogen with N
succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate (SATA), followed by subsequent hydrolysis of the S-acetyl
group with hydroxylamine produces a nucleophilic sulihydryl group. Conjugation of the
sulfhydryl activated protein with the maleimide derivatized hapten (prepared as described in
general Scheme 3) proceeds via a Michael addition reaction. Suitable proteins are known to
those skilled in the art and include keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and
ovalbumin. While Scheme 8 illustrates protein-hapten conjugation where R' is
        0 0)
     H       m
                 0 , the same chemistry can be used to conjugate any maleimide functionalized
hapten to a protein.
Scheme 9:
                                                42

                                               0
                                           0N-OH                  0
          HO'         N'Apirze
                                              a                NlO.
                                                          4 ,N'O        QJ&.rA    pip nol
                                                                          U N' Aripiprazole
                      H                   DCC/DMF          O                H
            PROTEIN-NH2                             0     0
                                       PROTEI N AN N.Aripiprazole
                                                  H          H
             where x is m or n, as defined in Formula .
Carboxylic acid functionalized haptens may be conjugated to proteins according to the method
shown in Scheme 9. Reaction with N-hydroxysuccinimide and a suitable coupling agent, such as
dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) and a base such as tributylarnine. in a solvent such as DMF at
a temperature of about 20 TC, for about 18 hours, activates the carboxylic acid with the
hydroxypyrrolidine-2.5-dione leaving group. The activated spacer and hapten may then be
conjugated to a protein in a solvent, such as pH 7.5 phosphate buffer, at about 20 *C for about
2.5 hours. Suitable proteins are known to those skilled in the art and include keyhole limpet
hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and ovalbumin. While Scheme 9 illustrates protein-hapten
conjugation where R 2 is NHC(0)(CH-h)CO 2H. the same chemistry can be used to conjugate any
CO 2H functionalized hapten to a protein.
ANTIBODY PRODUCTION
The conjugates above are useful for the production of antibodies which bind the anti-psychotic
drug to which they were generated (aripiprazole). These antibodies can be used in assays to
detect the presence and/or amount of the anti-psychotic drug in patient samples. Such detection
permits therapeutic drug monitoring enabling all of the benefits thereof. Detection of levels of
anti-psychotic drugs may be useful for many purposes, including: detection in combination with
the detection of other anti-psychotic drugs, including those selected from the group consisting of
risperidone, paliperidone. quetiapine, olanzapine, and metabolites thereof, such detection
permitting the simultaneous measurement of these anti-psychotic drugs; determination of patient
adherence or compliance with prescribed therapy use as a decision tool to determine whether a
                                                 43

patient should be converted from an oral anti-psychotic regimen to a long-acting injectable anti
psychotic regimen; use as a decision tool to determine if the dose level or dosing interval of oral
or injectable anti-psychotics should be increased or decreased to ensure attainment or
maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels; use as an aid in the initiation of anti-psychotic
drug therapy by providing evidence of the attainment of minimum pK levels; use to determine
bioequivalence of anti-psychotic drug in multiple formulations or from multiple sources; use to
assess the impact of polypharmacy and potential drug-drug interactions; and use as an indication
that a patient should be excluded from or included in a clinical trial and as an aid in the
subsequent monitoring of adherence to clinical trial medication requirements.
Having provided the conjugates of the subject invention, which comprise the compounds herein
and an immunogenic carrier, antibodies can be generated, e.g., polyclonal, monoclonal, chimeric,
and humanized antibodies, that bind to the anti-psychotic drug. Such antibodies that are
particularly contemplated include monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies as well as fragments
thereof, e.g., recombinant proteins, containing the antigen-binding domain and/or one or more
complementarity determining regions of these antibodies. Preferably,the antibody will bind to
the drug and any desired pharmacologically active metabolites. By altering the location of the
attachment of the immunogenic carrier to the compounds of the invention, selectivity and cross
reactivity with metabolites can be engineered into the antibodies. For aripiprazole, cross
reactivity with dehydroaripiprazole may be desirable. Antibodies may be generated that detect
both aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole, or antibodies may be generated that detect each
separately (thus defining the antibody "specific binding" properties). An antibody specifically
binds one or more compounds when its binding of the one or more compounds is equimolar or
substantially equimolar.
Methods of producing such antibodies comprise inoculating a host with the conjugate (the
compound and the immunogenic carrier being an immunogen) embodying features of the present
invention. Suitable hosts include, but are not limited to, mice, rats, hamsters, guinea pigs,
rabbits, chickens, donkeys, horses, monkeys, chimpanzees, orangutans. gorillas, humans, and
any species capable of mounting a mature immune response. The immunization procedures arc
well established in the art and arc set forth in numerous treatises and publications including "The
                                                  44

hnunaoassay Handbook, 2nd Edition, edited by David Wild (Nature Publishing Group, 2000)
and the references cited therein.
Preferably, an immunogen embodying featues of the present invention is administered to a host
subject, -eg., an animal or human, in combination with an adjuvant. Suitable adjuvants include,
but are not limited to, Freund's adjuvant, powdered aluminum hydroxide (alum), aluminum
hydroxide together with Bordetellapertussis, and monophosphoryl lipid A-synthetic trehalose
dicorynomycolate (MPL-TDM).
Polyclonal antibodies can be raised in a mammalian host by one or more injections of an
immunogen which can optionally be administered together with an adjuvant. Typically, an
immunogen or a combination of an immunogen and an adjuvant is injected into a mammalian
host by one or multiple subcutaneous or intruperitoneal injections. Preferably., the immunization
program is carried out over at least one week, and more preferably, over two or more weeks.
Polyclonal antibodies produced in this manner can be isolated and purified utilizing methods
well know in the art.
Monoclonal antibodies can be produced by the well-established hybridoma methods of Kohler
and Milstein, e.g. Nature 256:495-497 (1975). Hybridoma methods typically involve
immunizing a host or lymphocytes from a host, harvesting the monoclonal antibody secreting or
having the potential to secrete lymphocytes, fusing the lymphocytes to immortalized cells, and
selecting cells that secrete the desired monoclonal antibody.
A host can be immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing
antibodies specific for an immunogen. Alternatively, the lymphocytes can be immunized in
vito. If human cells are desired, peripheral blood lymphocytes can be used, although spleen
cells or lymphocytes from other mammalian sources are preferred.
The lymphocytes can be fused with an immortalized cell line to form hybridoma cells, a process
which can be facilitated by the use of a fusing agent, e.g., polyethylene glycol. By way of
illustration, mutant rodent, bovine, or human myeloma cells immortalized by transformation can
                                                45

be used. Substantially pure populations of hybridoma cells, as opposed to unused immortalized
cells, are preferred. Thus, following fusion, the cells can be grown in a suitable medium that
inhibits the growh or survival of unfused, immortalized cells, for example, by using mutant
myeloma cells that lack the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT).
In such an instance, hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidinc     can be added to the medium
(HAT medium) to prevent the growth of HOPRT-deficient cells while permitting hybridomas to
grow.
Preferably, immortalized cells fuse efficiently, can be isolated from mixed populations by
selection in a medium such as HAT, and support stable and high-level expression of antibody
following fusion. Preferred immortalized cell lines include myeloma cell lines available from
the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA.
Because hybridoma cells typically secrete antibody extracellularly, the culture media can be
assayed for the presence of monoclonal antibodies specific for the anti-psychotic drug.
Immunoprecipitation of in viro binding assays, for example, radiioimmunoassay (RIA) or
enzyme-linked imirunosorbent assay (ELISA), can be used to measure the binding specificity of
monoclonal antibodies.
Monoclonal antibody-secreting hybridoma cells can be isolated as single clones by limiting
dilution procedures and sub-cultured. Suitable culture media include, but are not limited to,
Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium, RPMI-1640, and polypeptide-free, polypeptide-reduced,
or serim-free media, e.g., Ultra DOMA PF or HL-1, available from Biowhittaker, Walkersville,
MD. Alternatively, the hybridoma cells can be grown in vivo as ascites.
Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and/or purified from a culture medium or ascites fluid by
conventional immunoglobulin (1g) purification procedures including, but not limited to,
polypeptide A-SEPHAROSE, hydroxylapatite chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis,
ammonium sulfate precipitation, and affinity chromatography.
                                                 46

Monoclonal antibodies can also be produced by recombinant methods such as are described in
US. Patent No. 4,166,452. DNA encoding monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and sequenced
using conventional procedures, e.g., using oligonucleotide probes that specifically bind to marine
heavy and light antibody chain genes, preferably to probe DNA isolated from monoclonal
antibody hybridoma cells lines secreting antibodies specific for anti-psychotic drugs,
IMMUNOASSAYS
The antibodies thus produced can be used in immunoassays to recognize/bind to the anti
psychotic drug, thereby detecting the presence and/or amount of the drug in a patient sample.
Preferably, the assay format is a competitive immunoassay format. Such an assay format and
other assays arc described, among other places, in Hampton et al. (SerologicalMeihods, A
LabaratoryManual, APS Press, St. Paul, MN 1990) and Maddox et a]. (J Exp. Med. 158:12111,
1983).
A reagent kit can also be provided comprising an antibody as described above. A representative
reagent kit may comprise an antibody that binds to the anti-psychotic drug, aripiprazole, a
complex comprising an analog of an anti-psychotic drug or a derivative thereof coupled to a
labeling moiety. and may optionally also comprise one or more calibrators comprising a known
amount of an anti-psychotic drug or a related standard.
As noted above, reagent kits may comprise calibrators and/or control materials which comprise a
known amount of the analyze to be measured. The concentration of the analyte can be calculated
by comparing results obtained for a sample with resulted obtained for a standard. A calibration
curve can be constructed and used for relating the sets of results and for determining the
concentration of an analyte in a sample.
Any sample that is suspected of containing an analyte, e.g., an anti-psychotic drug, can be
analyzed in accordance with the methods of the presently preferred embodiments. The sample
can be pretreated if desired and can be prepared in any convenient medium that does not interfere
with the assay. Preferably, the sample comprises an aqueous medium such as a body fluid from
a host, most preferably plasma or serum.
                                               47

Copending applications entitled "Haptens of Aripiprazole" (Attorney Docket No.
PRD326SUSPSP, first named inventor: Remmerie), "Haptens of Olanzapine" (Attorney Docket
No. PRD3266USPSP, first named inventor: Remmeric), "Haptens of Paliperidone" (Attorney
Docket No. PRD3267USPSP, first named inventor: Remmeric), "Haptens of Quetiapine"
(Attorney Docket No. PRD3268USPSP, first named inventor: Remmerie), "Haptens of
Risperidone and Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3269USPSP, first named inventor:
Remmerie), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole Haptens and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No.
CDSS 128 USPSP, first named inventor: Bryhorcnko), "Antibodies to Olanzapine Haptens and
Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS5132USPSP, first named inventor: Hryborenkot
"Antibodies to Paliperidone Haptens and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS5126USPSP,
first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Quetiapine Haptens and Use Thereof'
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5134USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to
Risperidone Haptens and Use Thereot" (Attorney Docket No. CDS5 I 30USPSP, first named
inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole and Use Thereof' (Attomey Docket No.
CDS5129USPSP, first named inventor: Hryborcnko), "Antibodies to Olanzapine and Use
Thereof" (Attorney Docket No. CDSS133USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko),
"Antibodies to Paliperidone and Use Thereof (Attorney Docket No. CDS5 I 27USPSP, first
named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Quetiapine and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket
No. CDS5I 35USPSP, first named inventor: Iryhorenko), "Antibodies to Risperidone and Use
Thereof (Attorney Docket No. CDS513IUSPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), all filed
concurrently herewith are all incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
EXAMPLES
Representative compounds of the present invention can be synthesized in accordance with the
general synthetic methods described below. Compounds of Formula (I) can be prepared by
methods known to those who are skilled in the art. The following examples are only meant to
represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant to be a limit of the invention.
Example 1
                                               48

4-(aninometiyl)-7-(4-(4-(2,3-diichlorophcnyl)piperazin- I -yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin
2(IH)-one
                                          H
                                          NO
                                             NH2
Step A
I.-(bronomethyl)-4-nethoxy-2-nitrobenzeiie
  02 N     N
 Br
To a well-stirred solution of compound 4-methoxy-i-methyl-2-nitrobenzenc (2 18 g, 1.30mol) in
CCl 4 (1500 mL) was added AIBN (21.7 g, 0.13 mol), and NBS (348 g. 1,96 mot). After the
reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h under N2 , water was added and the product
extracted from the aqueous phase with CH2 C12 . The resultant organic phase was washed with
brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and the solvent was evaporated to give a solid which was purified by
silica gel chromatography (eluting with petroleum ether / ethyl acetate, 20: 1) to the title
compound as a yellow solid. ESI-MS (M+1) 246. HNMR: (CDCL, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 7.55
(s, 1 ),7.46-7.42 (d, IH), 7.14-7.11 (d, IH), 4.79 (s, 2H), 3.90 (s, 3H).
Step B
2-(4-nethoxy-2-nitrophenyl)acctonitrile
    0 2 'N   N
 N
To a stirred solution of 1-(bromomethyl)-4-methoxy-2-nitrobenzene., prepared as described in
Step A, (40 g,i0.163 mot) in THF (500 mL) and EtOH (100 mL was added a solution of KCN
(26.6g, 0.408 mol) in water (100 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred at0'C for 1 h and then
further for 3 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with water (500 nL) and
aqueous phase was extracted with DCM (500 mL) and then washed with brine, dried over
Na2 SO4 and evaporated hi i'acuo. The residue was purified by chromatography on a silica gel
                                                 49

column to give the title compound. ESI-MS (M+1) 193. H NMR: (CDCI3 . 400 MHz): 5 (ppm)
7.72 (s, I H), 7.63-7.61 (d, I H), 7.26-7.23 (d, I H), 4.14 (s, 2H), 3.93 (s, 3H).
Step C
ethyl 3-cyano-3-(4-methoxy-2-nitrophenyl)propanoate
         02 N         .0
 EtO2 C
            CN
To a solution of 2-(4-netioxy-2-nitrophenyl)acetonitrile, prepared as described in Step B, (5.5 g,
0.0286 mol) in DM*F (100 mL) was added BrCihCO2Et (5.71 g, 0.034 mol) and K2C0 3 (11.86 g,
0.086 mol) at 0 *C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 0C fbr I h and at room temperature for
another 2 h. After the reaction was completed by TLC monitoring, water was added. The
reaction was extracted with ethyl acetate; the organic phase was washed with brine, dried over
Na2SO4, and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by chromatography on a
silica gel column to give the title compound. ESI-MS (M+ 1) 279. H NMR: (CDC 3 , 400 MHz):
6 (ppm) 7.70-7.68 (d, I H), 7.57-7.56 (s, I H), 7.24-7.21 (d, IH), 5,13-4.98 (m, IH), 4.20-4.18 (m,
2H), 3.89 (s, 3H), 2.99-2.97 (d, 2H). 1.28-1.24 (t, 3H).
StepD
7-nethoxy-2-oxo- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline-4-carbonitrile
       H
       CN
To a solution of ethyl 3-cvano-3-(4-methoxy-2-nitrophenyl)propanoate. prepared as described in
Step C, (9.0 g, 0.032 mol) in MecOH (100 mL), Sn (19.3 g, 0.162 mol) was added, followed by
hydrochloric acid/MeOH (40 ml, 1:1) all at once. The reaction was stirred at room temperature
for 2 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo. Then ethyl acetate was added, and aqueous
NaHCO3 solution was added to neutralize the solution. The organic phase was concentrated to
get crude product which was used for next step without further purification.
Step E
                                                   5

4-(aninomethyl)-7-methoxy-3,4-dihydroquinoiin-2(I H)-one
       H         0
 ON      N         '
  H2N
Crude 7-nethoxy-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahvdroquinoline-4-carbonitrile, prepared as described in Step
D, (6 g, 0.03 mol) and Raney Ni (10 g) was suspended in a mixture of MeOH (100 mL) and 3
mL of triethylamine. The reaction mixture was stirred under Hz (50 Psi) atmosphere at room
 temperature for 4 h. AfIer the reaction was completed by monitoring by TLC, the catalyst was
filtered off, and then the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford the crude product which was
used for next step without further purification.
Step F
4-(aninomethyl)-7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(1H)-one
       H
  O    N          OH
  H2 N
To a solution of crude 4-(aminomethyil)-7-nethoxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(I H)-one, prepared as
described in Step E, (8.8 g, 0.0427 mol) in dichloromethane (100 mL), BBr 3 (85 g, 0.342 imiol) in
dichloromethane (I M) was added dropwise at -14 C, and the reaction was stirred at room
temperature overnight. After the reaction was completed by monitoring through TLC, methanol
was added slowly at 0 "C to quench the reaction, and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo to get
crude product which was used directly in the next step.
Step G
tert-butyl ((7-hydroxy-2-oxo-1,2.3.4-tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)carbamate
         H
         N           OH
 BocHN
                                                 51

Crude 4-(aminomethyl)-7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(l-one, prepared as described in
Step F, (8.2 g, 0.0 4 2 7 mol) and (Boc) 2 0 (4.65 g, 0.021 mol), triethylamine (10 mL) were added
to 100 mL of methanol. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After the reaction
was stopped, the solvent was removed in vacuo, and ethyl acetate was added, The organic phase
was washed with water, aqueous NaHCO solution, dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated in
vacuo. The crude product was purified by chromatography to give the title compound. ESi-MS
(M+1) 292. 'H NMR: (DMSO-d6 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 9.96 (s, 1H), 9.31 (s, I H), 6.95-6.89 (m,
2H), 6.33 (d, 2H), 3.00-2.97 (m. 2H), 290-2.96 (in, I H), 2.56 (m, IH), 2.30-2.34 (m, 1H), 1.37
(s, 9H),
Step H
tert-butyl ((7-(4-brormobutoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4-vl)methy].)carbamate
         H
      O N p         O      -,     Br
 BocHN
To a solution of tervbutyl ((7-hydroxy-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrabydroquinolin-4-yl)metbyI)carbamat.c,
prepared as described in Step H, (1.0 mmol, 292 mg) and 1,4-dibromobutane (1.1 mmol, 237.5
mg) in DMF (1.5 ml.) was added anhydrous K.2CO 3 (1.2 mmol, 166 mg). The mixture was
stirred at room temperature overnight until HPL.C and LC/MS indicated that the reaction was
complete to give the title compound, which was subjected to next reaction without purification.
MS m/z 428 (MH*).
Step I
tert-butyl ((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichilorophenyl)piperazin- i-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)rethyl)carbamate
         H
    0    N          O -           N)          CI
                                       N           Cl
 BocHN
To a solution of tert-butyl ((7-(4-bromobutoxy)-2-oxo- 12,3,4-tctrahvdroquinolin-4
yl)methyl)carbamate, prepared as described in Step fl, in DMF was added 1-(2.3-dichloro
                                                   52

phenyl)-piperazinc hydrochloride (10 mmol, 268 mg) and K 2CO, (1.23 mmol, 170mg). The
mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the
residue was partitioned between dichloromethane and saturated aqueous NaHCO. solution. The
organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with additional dichloromethane.
Organic layers were combined, concentrated. The residue was then subjected to column
chromatography on silica gel with gradient 0-10% methanol in dichloromethane to give the title
compound as a solid. MS ml- 578 (MW).
Step J
4-(aminomethyl)-7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin- 1-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin
2(1 H)-one
      H
 o    N          0
                      "'       N          C
                                    N          Cl
 H2N F
To a solution of tert-butyl ((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin- I-yl)butoxy)--oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-y)nethyl)carbamate, prepared as described in Step L,(200 mg, 0.35 mnol)
in dichloromethane (5 mL) was added I mL of TFA. The mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 2.5 hr. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was partitioned
between dichloromethane and saturated NaHCO 3 solution. The organic layer was separated and
aqueous layer was extracted with additional dichloronethane. The organic layers were
combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4, filtered and concentrated. The residue was then subjected to
column chromatography on silica gel with 10% methanol in dichloromethane, followed by 10%
7N ammonia methanol in dichloromethane, to give the title compound as a solid. This product
was further purified by recrystalization from dichloromethane and heptanes to give final product
as a white solid. MS m/z 4 7 7 (MH). 'H NMR: (CDC 3, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 7.40 (s, lH), 7.25
7.05 (im, 3H), 7.00 (d, IH), 6.60 (d, IU), 6.30 (s, 1H),4.00 (in, 2H), 3.10 (m, 4H), 3.00-2.60 (in,
9H), 2.50 (im, 2H), 1.90-1.40 (in, 6H). Calculated for C2 H 4 30 C12N40 2 C. 60.38; H, 6.33; N,
11.74. Found C, 60.32; H, 5.89; N, i 1.26.
Example 2
                                                  53

7-(4-(4-(4-anino-2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin- I -yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(1H)-one
       H
          O                         N        C1
                                             NHa
Step A
4-bromo-2,3-dichloro-N-(4-nethoxybenzyl)anilinc
MOO
             IH
                 C1        Br
                      CI
To a solution of 4-bromo-2,3-dichloro-phenylamine (3.215 g., 13.3 mmol) and 1-chloromethyl-4
methoxy-benzene (2.297 g, 14.7 mmol) in 23 mL of DMF was added potassium iodide (2.214 g,
13.3 mmol) and 647 mg of sodium hydride (60% oil dispersion). After stirring at room
temperature overnight, the reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was
partitioned between dichloromethane and saturated NaHCO 3 aqueous solution. The organic
layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with additional dichloromethane, The
organic layers were combined, dried over Na2SO4 , filtrated, and concentrated. The residue was
then subjected to column chromatography on silica gel with 30% ethyl acetate in heptanes to
give the title compound as a yellow solid; MS m/! 362 (MH).
Step B
2,3-dichloro-N-(4-metloxybenzyl)-4-(piperazin- I -yl)aniline
 Meo
                  H
                     N
                      CI         NH
A mixture of 4-brono-2,3-dichloro-N-(4-mcthcoxybenzyl)ailine, prepared as described in the
previous step, (3.61g, 10 mmol), piperizine (1.034 g, 12 mmol), sodium i-butoxide (1.16 g, 12
mmol), and tris(dibenzylideneacetone) dipalladium(O) (180 mg, 2 nol%) in 16 mL of toluene in
a sealed thick-wall flask was stirred and heated in an oil bath at 100 *C for 2.5 days. After
                                                54

cooling to room temperature, the reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane and
water. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with additional
dichloromethane. The organic layers were combined, dried over Na2 SO 4, filtered, and
concentrated. The residue was purified by colun      chromatography on silica gel column with
10% methanol in dichloromethane, followed by 10% 7N ammonia methanol in dichloromethane,
to give the title compound as a light brown solid. .MS m/z 367 (MET). 7H NMR: (CDC1, 400
MHz): 3 (ppm) 7.28 (d, 2H), 6.98 (d, 2H), 6.50 (d, 1H), 4.60 (s, IH), 4.30 (in, 2H), 3.80 (m, 31),
3.10-2,85 (m, 8H), 2,30 (s. 1H).
Step C
2,3-dichloro-4-(piperazin-I-yaniline
 H-N    /       -
               -N    \NH
      CI     C1
To a solution of 2,3-dichloro-N-(4-netoxybenzyl)-4-(piperazin- t -y)aniline, prepared as
described in the previous step, (562 mng, 1.54 rmol) in dichloromethane (5 mL) was added 5 mL
of TFA. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 hr, and then was evaporated
in vacuo to dryness. The residue was re-dissolved in dichloromethane and evaporated to
dryness. The title compound was used in the next reaction without purification. MS m      245
(MH ).
Step D
7-(4-(4-(4-amino-2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-y)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(1      rn-one
      H
                                   N          Cl
                                          N NH 2
To a solution of 2,3-dichloro-4-(piperazin-1-yl)aniline, prepared as described in the previous
step, (1.535 mmol) as TFA salt in DMF (6 niL) was added a solution of commercially available
7-(4-bronio-butoxy)-3,4-dihydro-lEH-quinolin-2-one (1.535 mmol) in DMF (I mL), K2CO3
(2.121 g), and I mL of DMF. The resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight.
The solid was filtered and rinsed with dichloromethane. The solution was evaporated in vacuo
                                                 55

and the residue was then subjected to column chromatography on silica gel with gradient 0-10%
methanol in dichloromethane, followed by 10% 7N ammonia methanol in dichloromethane, to
give the title compound as a solid. MS m/z 463 (MH*).         H NMR: (DMSO-d, 400 MHz): A
(ppm) 10.0 (s, IH), 7.05(1 I H), 6.95 (d, 11), 6,75 (d, 1H), 6,50 (d, 1H), 6.45 (s, 1), 5.3 (s,
2H), 3.90 (in, 2H), 2.90-2.70 (in, 611), 2.50-2.30 (m, 8H), 1.80-1.50 (m, 4H). Calculated for
C3 1C12N4 0, is C. 59.61; H, 6.09: N, 12,09. Found C, 59.44; H, 5.87: N, 11.77.
Example 3
4-((2.3-dichloro-4-(4-(4-((2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-7-yl)oxy)butyl)piperazin-
yl)phenyl)amino)-4-oxobutanoic acid
     0 N                               N
          0C1NN                 N                          C
                                           CI
A solution of Example 2 (115.5 mg, 0.25 mmol) and succinic anhydride (50 mg, 0.5 mmol) in
pyridine (1.5 ml) was stirred and heated at 110 *C in a microwave oven for 5.5 hr. The solution
was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was re-dissolved in dichloromethane and
evaporated to dryness; and then re-dissolved in methanol and evaporated to dryness. The crude
product was purified on a Agela hilic column with gradient 0-20% methanol in dichloromethane
to give a solid, which was further purified by rccrvstalization from methanol and dried at 40-50
*C in a vacuum oven to give the title compound. MS m/z 563 (MW). 'H NMR: (DMSO-d6, 400
MHz): 6 (ppm) 12.1 (s, I H), 10.0 (s, IH), 9.60 (s, IH), 7.5 (d, IH), 7.15 (d, IH), 7.05 (d, IH).
6.50 (d, 1EH), 6.45 (s, 111), 3.90 (in. 2H), 3.00 (m, 4H), 2.30 (in, 2H), 2.20-2.30 (in, 12H), 1.80
1.55 (in, 4H). Calculated for CHvC12N 40s is C, 57.55; 11, 5.72; N. 9.94. Found C, 55.92; H,
5.85; N, 9.58.
Example 4
5-((2,3-dichloro-4-(4-(4-((2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-7-yl)oxy)butyl)piperazin-I
yl)phenyl)amino)-5-oxtopentanoic acid
                                                   56

         0                         N
                                   ON           kNOH
                                              HC
A solution of Example 2 (83mg, 0.18 mmol) and glutaric anhydride (41 mg,0.36 mmol) in
pyridine (1.0 nL) was stirred and heated at I10 'C in a microwave oven for 4.5 hr. The solution
was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified on an Agela hilic column (12 g)
with gradient 0-30% methanol and dried at 40-50 *C in a vacuum oven to give the title
compound. MS mt 578 (MHW).
Example 5
4-(((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperaziii-I -yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4
yl)methyl)anino)-4-oxobutanoic acid
                   H
             o     N                      N          C
   HO
     0          H
A solution of Example 1 (24.1 mg, 0.05 mmol) and succinic anhydride (10 mg, 0.10 mmol) in
THF (1.0 mL) was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solution was evaporated in vacuo
to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (12 g) with gradient 0-30% methanol
in dichloromethane and dried at 40-50 *C in a vacuum oven to give the title compound. MS m/z
578 (MI-).
                                                57

Example 6
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin- I-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrotquinolin-4
yl)mnethyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-l H-pyrrol- 1-yl)acetamide
                H
           0 r N                       N          Cl
      /  NN
  0           H
To a solution of Example 1 (MW 477.4 2.2 mg, 4.61 fmolcs) in 10 iL of DMF and 2.3 yL of
tributylamine was added 116 iL of a DMF solution ofN-(.-malcimidoacetoxy) succinimide
cter (AMAS, MW 252.2, 10 mg/mL, 1.16mg, 4.61 .smoles). The resulting solution was
allowed to stir for 90 minutes at 20 *C, and then used as such in conjugation reaction with thiol
activated protein.
Example 7
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-l-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4
yl)methyl)-2-(25-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-IH-pyrrol-1-yl)acetamide - keyhole limpet hemocyanin
conjugate
To 3.23 ml, of a solution of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH MW 100,000 14.6 mg, 0.146
pmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium chloride, pH 74 was added 33.7 pL .of a
DMF solution of N-Succiniinidyl-S-acetylthioacetate (SATA MW 231.2,25mg/mL, 0.84 Ig,
3.65 gmoles). The resulting solution was incubated at 20 0 C for 1 hour on a roller mixer. The
reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M
sodium chloride, and 5mM EDTA, at pH 6.0. To 6.46 ml, of the KLH-SATA solution (13.7 mg,
0.137 moles) was added 646 gL of 2.5M hydroxylamine and 50mM EDTA, at PH 7.0. The
resulting solution was incubated at 20 "C for 1 hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was treated
with 169.6 gL of N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl )piperazin-I -yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro- 1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetamide solution
(prepared as described in example 6) (3.43 gmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated
for 2 hours at 20 "C on a roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.2 lim syringe filter
their purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer and 0.46M sodium
chloride at pH 7.4, to give the KLH conjugate of Example 6.
                                                58

Example 8
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyilpiperazin- 1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4
yl)methvl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetamnidc - bovine thyroglobulin coniugate
To 2.14 mL of a solution of bovine thyroglobulin (BTG, MW 660,000, 21.8 mg, 0.033 poles)
in a 100 mM phosphate buffer at pH 7.5 was added 61.1 pL of a DMF solution of N
succinimidyl-S-acctlthioacetate (SATA, MW 231.2, 25 mg/mL, 1.53 mg, 6.6 pmoles). The
resulting solution was incubated at 20 'C for I hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was purified
on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer. 5mM EDTA, at pH 6.0.
To 5.79 mL of BTG-SATA (20.5 mg, 0.031 prmoles ) was added 579 ptL of 2.5M
hydroxylamine, and 50mMl EDTA, at pH 70. The resulting solution was incubated at 20       CC  for
I hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was treaed with 304.0 gL of N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3
dichlorophenyl)piperazin--yl)butoxy)~2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)-2-(2,5
dioxo-2.5-dihydro-I H-pyrrol- I yl)acetamide solution (prepared as described in example 6) (6.2
moless. The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2 hours at 20 "C on a roller mixer. The
reaction was filtered through a 0.45 gm syringe filter then purified on a Sephadex G-25 column
using 100 mM phosphate buffer and 0. 14M sodium chloride at pH 7.4, to give the bovine
thyroglobulin conjugate of Example 6.
Example 9
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin- 1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo- 1,2,3,4-tetrahvdroquinolin-4
yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro- l H-pyrrol-l -yl)acetamide - ovalbumin conjugate
Step A
To 1.0 mL of a solution of ovalbunin (MW 44,300, 10.0 mg, 0.23 gioles) in 100 mM
phosphate buffer at pH 7.5 was added 31.3 gL of a DMF solution ofN-Sucinimidyl-S
acetylthioacetate (SATA, MW 231.2,25 mg/mL, 0.78 ing, 3.4 gmoles). The resulting solution
was incubated at 20 *C for I hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was treated with 100 pL of
2.5M hydroxylamine and 50 mM EDTA at pH 7.0. The resulting solution was incubated at 20
                                                59

'C for 15 minutes on a roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a Sephadex 6-25 colunm
using I00mM phosphate buffer and 5 mM EDTA at pH 6.0.
Step B
To the ovalburnin-SH, (3, mL, 8.3mg, 0.1 87pmol), prepared as described in Step A, was added
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichiorophenyl)pipcrazin-1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4
yl)methyi)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro- IH-pyrrol-I -yl)acetamide solution (prepared as described
in example 6) ((185.7 L, 3.75 pmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2.5
hours at 20 *C on a roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 Pm syringe filter, then
purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer, 0.14M sodium chloride at
pH 7.4, to give the ovalbumin conjugate of Example 6.
Example 10
Competitive Immunoassay for Aripiprazole
Following a series of immunizations with the immunogens described above in Examples 7-9,
mouse tail bleeds were tested for reactivity using an ELISA. Hybridoma supernatants were also
tested, and the ELISA data shown in Table 8 below shows reactivity of several hybridomas
(fusion partner was NSO cells).
Table 8
                                                60

                          Plate 1
                  DIIwn                   2             3           4            5
                      400
                      400
                     1200
                       003D7
                     3600
                     3600
                   10800
                   10800
                      40      0. 165      0.299            0.196   3 2953           0.0373
                      40:     0.7057      b06671          0.1525   2 0591           0,0371
                     1200     0,2413      0.2186          0.0701   1.92d2           0.0348
                     1200     0.2V74      0.2278          0,0653   1.7829           0.03
                     3600      0.102      0.0963          0.0472    0.739           0.0288
                     3600      0.0%       0.0954           0,061   0,7225           0.0281|
                   10800      0.0534      00526           0,0381   02878            0.0215
                   10800      0,0644      0.0588          0.0411   0.2799           0.0326
Supernatant was then tested by competition ELISA to determine if the signal was specific to
either aripiprazole or dehydroaripiprazole. Figs. I and 2 show the results from two
representative hybridomas, 3CI and 3D7. Data shows reactivity to both aripiprazole and
dehydroaripiprazole.
Fig. 3 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow assay device in which
the capture antibody, aripiprazoic clone 5C7, was deposited on a chip along with a detection
conjugate consisting of aripiprazole conjugated to a fluorophore. In this competitive format as
show in Fig. 3. a low level of analyze (aripiprazole) results in high signal, whereas a high level of
analyte (aripiprazole) results in low signal. Referring to Figs. 4 and 5 which show the results
from the assay as run on a lateral flow assay device, as the dose of aripiprazole in the sample
increased, it competed for binding sites on the antibodies. The amount of aripiprazole in the
sample can thus be calculated from the loss in fluorescence compared to a sample with no drug
present.
All documents cited herein are incorporated by reference. While the foregoing specification
teaches the principles of the present invention, with examples provided for the purpose of
illustration, it will be understood that the practice of he invention encompasses all of the usual
                                                   61

variations, adaptations and/or modifications as come within the scope of the following Claims
and their equivalents.
                                                62

CLAIMS
1.          A compound of Formula I,
        R3
OTN                ON'-           N           CI
                                  RN               CI
Formula I
wherein:
                                            0    0
                          O               H       O
                         N                H           N           OH
R' is H,        H            0   or                      0     O
                    0   0
                 N           N
                 H
                                   N ~1rOH
R2 is H or                            0     0
R 3 is H; provided that either R 1 or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R 1 and R 2 may
not be H simultaneously;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
2. The compound of claim 1 wherein:
                      o    o
                  N            N
                  H                  N           OH
R 1 is H or                             0     0
                    0   0
                 N           N
                 H
R2 is H or                            0     O
3.       The compound of claim 1 which is

                                     H
         CI         N         0
                                O    N 0
 C    l        N
                                         KNtN        OH
                                              o    o,
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
4. The compound of claim 1 which is
                                                    H
                                  CI   N            NO
                         O   OCI     N
                       IN       N
 HO              V N       J    H
      0        c
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
5. The compound of claim 1 which is
                                     H
         CI                   N        0
 C    l        N
                                         KN     NOH
                                              0    o    ,
wherein:

mis 1, 2 or 3; and
n is 1, 2 or 3.
6. The compound of claim 1 which is
                                       H
         CI                  N              0
 C    l       N
                                                KN   NOH
                                                   0    o   ,
wherein:
m is 2; and
n is 2.
7.       The compound of claim 1 which is
                                                         H
                                  CI        N            N,
                        O  OCI         N
                      N       N
 HO0y,           Nl           H
wherein:
m is 2; and
n is 2.
8.       The compound of claim 1 which is
                                        H
                  CIN           '       N, ,0
  CI           N    N                     N
                                           wee0
wherein:

m is 2, 3, 4 or 5.
9.       The compound of claim 1 which is
                                        H
                                        N    0
     CI          N
                                             H     0
wherein:
m is 2 or 3.
10. A conjugate of a compound of any one of claims 1 - 9 and an immunogenic carrier.
11. The conjugate of claim 10, wherein the compound is
                                       H
         CI                  N              0
 C    l        N
                                                    KN t            OH
                                                          0      o,
and wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
12. The conjugate of claim 10, wherein the compound is
                                                                  H
                                                                       O
                                  CI        NN
                                       N
                              N
                       N
 HOV4YN N
      a        c
and wherein:

m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
13.      The conjugate of claim 10, wherein the compound is
                                          H
                                             H       0
and wherein m is 2, 3, 4 or 5.
14.      The conjugate of any one of claims 10-13, wherein the immunogenic carrier is a
protein.
15.      The conjugate of claim 14, where the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin
or bovine thyroglobulin.
16.      A product made by the process of contacting a compound of any one of claims 1 - 9
with an immunogenic carrier.
17. The product of claim 16, wherein the compound is
                                         H
         CI                   N                0
 C    l        N
                                                        KN t            OH
                                                              0      o,
and wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

18.      The product of claim 16, wherein the compound is
                                                                      H
                                    CI         N                      NO
                         O   OCI         N
                       IN      N
          HO      N            H
      0        c
and wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
19.      The product of claim 16, wherein the compound is
                                          H
                                          N     0O
     CI
                           NN
                                                H     0
and wherein m is 2, 3, 4 or 5.
20.      The product of any one of claims 16-19, wherein the immunogenic carrier is a protein.
21.      The product of claim 20, where the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin or
bovine thyroglobulin.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
