                                                  ABSTRACT
    A polypeptide comprising one or more amino acid residues of a compound according to
formula II or formula I:
                                           N 3 'W4
                                          0                        0
                                      HO      .               HO           D'N3
                                             NH2                     NH2
                                      Formula II                   Formula I;
        or a salt thereof, wherein:
                 D is -Ar-W 3- or -WI-YI-C(O)-Y          2 -W 2-;
                 Ar is
                          ' 2         1
                     Z3    Z1       Z    Z1            N
                    HN               N-NH             N-N
                                                , or           ;
                 each of W 1, W 2 , and W 3 is independently a single bond or C1 to C6 alkylene;
                 W 4 is CI-C 10 alkylene;
                 X1 is -NH-, -0-, or -S-;
                 Y1 is a single bond, -NH-, or -0-;
                 Y 2 is an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and
    one of Z 1 , Z 2 , and Z 3 is -N- and the others of Z1 , Z 2 , and Z 3 are -CH-;
linked to a payload through a 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing moiety, which was formed by a
reaction of the N 3 of the one or more amino acid residues with an alkyne-linked payload, and
optionally comprising a linking moiety between the polypeptide and the payload; wherein the
payload comprises a carbohydrate.

                                   MODIFIED AMINO ACIDS
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]      The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
application number 2013308494, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference which application claims the benefit of, and priority to, United States provisional
patent application serial number 61/696,087 entitled "MODIFIED AMINO ACIDS" filed
August 31, 2012, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                                              FIELD
[0002]      Provided herein are modified amino acids comprising an azido group, polypeptides,
antibodies and conjugates comprising the modified amino acids, and methods of producing the
polypeptides, antibodies and conjugates comprising the modified amino acids. The
polypeptides, antibodies and conjugates are useful in methods of treatment and prevention,
methods of detection and methods of diagnosis.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0003]      Engineered polypeptides are used widely in therapy and diagnostic applications.
Therapeutic antibodies have been useful for many years in, for example, treatment of cancer
and inflammatory conditions. Therapeutic polypeptides are also used to treat and prevent blood
conditions and viral infections. Diagnostic polypeptides have been used successfully to identify
healthy and diseased cells and tissues in vivo.
[0004]      Many polypeptides can provide targeting functionality to specific cells. The
selective affinity of certain polypeptides can be used to target nearly any cell or tissue desired,
for example a cell expressing an antigen. A polypeptide can carry a molecular payload to slow
or destroy the target cell or tissue. Polypeptides have thus found use in therapy for conditions
such as cancer, inflammatory diseases, autoimmune diseases and transplant rejection.
[0005]      In certain applications therapeutic polypeptides are linked to molecular shields to
increase their lifetime within an organism. Polypeptides have also found use as diagnostics.
These polypeptides can carry a label to indicate the presence of a target receptor on a cell or in
a tissue. These labels are typically linked to the polypeptides by covalent bonds.
[0006]      To date, techniques for linking polypeptides to molecular entities such as molecular
payloads, including molecular shields and labels, have been limited by their heterogeneity in
degree and location of linking to the polypeptides, by their low yields and by losses in activity.
Typical conjugation sites include random locations on polypeptide chains, e.g. random amines
                                                  1

on amino acid side chains, and the N-terminus of certain polypeptide chains. In such
techniques, some polypeptides might be linked to the conjugate at one location while some
polypeptides are linked to the same conjugate at another location, and some polypeptides might
not be linked at all.
[0007]      There is a need, therefore, for polypeptides modified at site-specific positions
optimized for uniformity, yield and/or activity to further the promising use of polypeptides in,
for example, therapy and diagnostics.
                                              SUMMARY
[0008]      Provided herein are modified amino acids comprising an azido group, polypeptides,
antibodies and conjugates comprising the modified amino acids, and methods of producing the
polypeptides, antibodies and conjugates comprising the modified amino acids. The
polypeptides, antibodies and conjugates are useful in methods of treatment and prevention,
methods of detection and methods of diagnosis.
[0009] In one aspect a polypeptide comprising one or more amino acid residues of a compound
according to formula II or formula I:
                                         N3
                                             W4
                                       0                        0
                                   HO                       HO        D'N3
                                          NH2                     NH2
                                   Formula II                  Formula I;
        or a salt thereof, wherein:
                D is -Ar-W 3- or -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y       2 -W 2 -;
                Ar is
                          2        1               N
                   Z3a- Z1      Z3   Z1            N
                   HN            N-NH             N-N
                                           ,or             ;
                each of W 1, W 2 , and W 3 is independently a single bond or C1 to C6 alkylene;
                W 4 is CI-C 10 alkylene;
                                                  2

                X1 is -NH-, -0-, or -S-;
                Y1 is a single bond, -NH-, or -0-;
                Y 2 is an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and
    one of Z 1, Z 2 , and Z 3 is -N- and the others of Z 1, Z 2 , and Z 3 are -CH-;
linked to a payload through a 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing moiety, which was formed by a
reaction of the N 3 of the one or more amino acid residues with an alkyne-linked payload, and
optionally comprising a linking moiety between the polypeptide and the payload; wherein the
payload comprises a carbohydrate.
[0010]      In a further aspect, polypeptides and antibodies comprising an amino acid residue
corresponding to a compound of formula I are provided. In particular embodiments, conjugates
of the polypeptides and payloads are provided. In further embodiments, conjugates of the
antibodies and payloads are provided.
[0011]      In another aspect, an orthogonal tRNA is provided aminoacylated with an amino
acid residue corresponding to a compound of formula I. In a related aspect, a method of
producing a polypeptide is provided, comprising contacting a polypeptide with an orthogonal
tRNA aminoacylated with an amino acid residue corresponding to a compound of formula I.
[0012]      The compounds of formula I described herein can be incorporated into any
polypeptide known to those of skill in the art. Such polypeptides include, but are not limited to,
proteins, antibodies, antibody fragments, enzymes, and nucleic acids.
            In another aspect, an antibody comprising one or more amino acid residues of a
compound according to formula II or formula I:
                                         N3
                                             W4
                                        o                          0
                                     HO    .                 HO            D'N3
                                           NH 2                      NH2
                                    Formula II                  Formula I;
        or a salt thereof, wherein:
                D is -Ar-W 3- or -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y        2 -W 2-;
                Ar is
                                                    3

                            2         1
                    Z3   - Z1      Z3   Z1
                   HN               N-NH           N-N
                                           ,or
                each of W 1, W 2 , and W 3 is independently a single bond or C1 to C6 alkylene;
                W 4 is C1-Cio alkylene;
                X1 is -NH-, -0-, or -S-;
                Y1 is a single bond, -NH-, or -0-;
                Y2 is an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and
    one of Z 1, Z 2 , and Z 3 is -N- and the others of Z 1, Z 2 , and Z 3 are -CH-;
linked to a payload through a 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing moiety, which was formed by a
reaction of the N3 of the one or more amino acid residues with an alkyne-linked payload, and
optionally comprising a linking moiety between the polypeptide and the payload; wherein the
payload comprises a carbohydrate.
        In another aspect there is provided a method for producing a polypeptide, comprising:
      a) forming the polypeptide by combining an alkyne-linked payload, which optionally
comprises a linking moiety between the alkyne and the payload, with a polypeptide comprising
one or more amino acid residues according to formula Ila:
                                                          N31 W4
                                                          HN I
                                                         (Ila);
or a salt thereof, wherein W4 is CI-Cio alkylene and wherein the payload comprises a
carbohydrate.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0013]       Figure 1 provides A schematic of the reaction of compounds (30), (40), and (50)
with compound (60).
                                                    4

[0014]       Figure 2 provides a plot of kobs vs. [Azide] for reaction of compound (30),
compound (40) and compound (50) with compound (60). In Figure 2, kobs is plotted on the
vertical axis in units of sec' from 0 to 0.006 and [Azide] is plotted on the horizontal axis in
units of mM from 0 to 3. In Figure 2, results for compound (30) are provided as open circles,
results for compound (40) are provided as filled triangles, and results for compound (50) are
provided as filled circles. As provided in Figure 2, compounds (30) and (40) exhibited a first
order rate constant of 1.4 M- sec- 1, approximately 7-fold higher than first order rate constant
of 0.2 M- 1 sec- 1 for compound (50).
[0015]       Figure 3 provides a plot of a time course for pAMF incorporation at the Y50TAG
site in GFP. In Figure 3, RFU is plotted on the vertical axis from 0 to 400000 and time is
plotted on the horizontal axis in units of minutes from 0 to 600. In Figure 3, results for
turboGFP are provided as filled squares (top), results for pCNFRS D286R pAMF are provided
as filled diamonds (middle), and results for Y50TAG are provided as filled triangles (bottom).
As provided in Figure 3, turboGFP is approximately 250,000 RFU at 200 minutes, pCNFRS
D286R pAMF is approximately 130,000 RFU at 200 minutes, and Y50TAG is approximately
0 RFU at 200 minutes. As provided in Figure 3, turboGFP is approximately 340,000 RFU at
400 minutes, pCNFRS D286R pAMF is approximately 160,000 RFU at 400 minutes, and
Y50TAG is approximately 0 RFU at 400 minutes. As provided in Figure 3, turboGFP is
approximately 370,000 RFU at 600 minutes, pCNFRS D286R pAMF is approximately
170,000 RFU at 600 minutes, and Y50TAG is approximately 0 RFU at 600 minutes.
[0016]       Figure 4 provides a plot of the fraction of DBCO-NH 2 (61) remaining vs. time
(hours) during a reaction with amino acid analogs (30), (1), and (2). In Figure 4, the fraction of
DBCO-NH 2 (61) remaining is plotted on the vertical axis in a unitless value from 0 to 1.2 and
time is plotted on the horizontal axis in units of 0 hours to 20 hours. In Figure 4, the results for
compound (30) are provided as filled diamonds, the results for compound (1) are provided as
filled squares, and the results for compound (2) are provided as filled triangles. As provided in
Figure 4, compounds (1) and (30) reacted with compound (61) at comparable rates, while the
reaction rate between compound (2) and compound (61) was two- to four-fold slower than the
reaction rate between compounds (1) and (61) and compounds (30) and (61).
                       DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0017]       Provided herein are compounds of formula I, polypeptides, antibodies and
conjugates comprising the amino acid residues corresponding to the compounds of formula I,
                                                   5

and methods of producing the polypeptides, antibodies and conjugates comprising the modified
amino acid residues corresponding to the compounds of formula I.
             Definitions
[0018]       When referring to the compounds provided herein, the following terms have the
following meanings unless indicated otherwise. Unless defined otherwise, all technical and
scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as is commonly understood by one of
ordinary skill in the art. In the event that there is a plurality of definitions for a term herein,
those in this section prevail unless stated otherwise.
[0019]       The term "alkyl," as used herein, unless otherwise specified, refers to a saturated
straight or branched hydrocarbon. In certain embodiments, the alkyl group is a primary,
secondary, or tertiary hydrocarbon. In certain embodiments, the alkyl group includes one to
ten carbon atoms, i.e., C 1 to C10 alkyl. In certain embodiments, the alkyl group is selected from
the group consisting of methyl, CF 3 , CCl 3 , CFCl 2, CF 2Cl, ethyl, CH 2 CF 3 , CF 2CF 3, propyl,
isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, secbutyl, t-butyl, pentyl, isopentyl, neopentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, 3
methylpentyl, 2,2-dimethylbutyl, and 2,3-dimethylbutyl. The term includes both substituted
and unsubstituted alkyl groups, including halogenated alkyl groups. In certain embodiments,
the alkyl group is a fluorinated alkyl group. Non-limiting examples of moieties with which the
alkyl group can be substituted are selected from the group consisting of halogen (fluoro,
chloro, bromo or iodo), hydroxyl, carbonyl, sulfanyl, amino, alkylamino, arylamino, alkoxy,
aryloxy, nitro, cyano, sulfonic acid, sulfate, phosphonic acid, phosphate, or phosphonate, either
unprotected, or protected as necessary, as known to those skilled in the art, for example, as
taught in Greene, et al., Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, John Wiley and Sons, Second
Edition, 1991, hereby incorporated by reference.
[0020]       The term "lower alkyl," as used herein, and unless otherwise specified, refers to a
saturated straight or branched hydrocarbon having one to six carbon atoms, i.e., C1 to C6 alkyl.
In certain embodiments, the lower alkyl group is a primary, secondary, or tertiary hydrocarbon.
The term includes both substituted and unsubstituted moieties.
[0021]       The term "cycloalkyl," as used herein, unless otherwise specified, refers to a
saturated cyclic hydrocarbon. In certain embodiments, the cycloalkyl group may be a
saturated, and/or bridged, and/or non-bridged, and/or a fused bicyclic group. In certain
embodiments, the cycloalkyl group includes three to ten carbon atoms, i.e., C3 to CIO
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, the cycloalkyl has from 3 to 15 (C 3 .15 ), from 3 to 10 (C 3 .10 ),
or from 3 to 7 (C 3 .7 ) carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, the cycloalkyl group is
                                                   6

cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexylmethyl, cycloheptyl,
bicyclo[2. 1.1 ]hexyl, bicyclo[2.2. 1]heptyl, decalinyl or adamantyl. The term includes both
substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl groups, including halogenated cycloalkyl groups. In
certain embodiments, the cycloalkyl group is a fluorinated cycloalkyl group. Non-limiting
examples of moieties with which the cycloalkyl group can be substituted are selected from the
group consisting of halogen (fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo), hydroxyl, carbonyl, sulfanyl,
amino, alkylamino, arylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, nitro, cyano, sulfonic acid, sulfate, phosphonic
acid, phosphate, or phosphonate, either unprotected, or protected as necessary.
[0022]       "Alkylene" refers to divalent saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups particularly
having from one to eleven carbon atoms which can be straight-chained or branched. In certain
embodiments, the alkylene group contains 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The term includes both
substituted and unsubstituted moieties. This term is exemplified by groups such as methylene
(-CH 2-), ethylene (-CH 2CH 2-), the propylene isomers (e.g., -CH 2CH 2 CH 2- and
CH(CH 3 )CH 2-) and the like. The term includes halogenated alkylene groups. In certain
embodiments, the alkylene group is a fluorinated alkylene group. Non-limiting examples of
moieties with which the alkylene group can be substituted are selected from the group
consisting of halogen (fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo), hydroxyl, carbonyl, sulfanyl, amino,
alkylamino, alkylaryl, arylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, nitro, cyano, sulfonic acid, sulfate,
phosphonic acid, phosphate, and phosphonate, either unprotected, or protected as necessary.
[0023]      "Alkenyl" refers to monovalent olefinically unsaturated hydrocarbon groups, in
certain embodiment, having up to about 11 carbon atoms, from 2 to 8 carbon atoms, or from 2
to 6 carbon atoms, which can be straight-chained or branched and having at least 1 or from 1 to
2 sites of olefinic unsaturation. The term includes both substituted and unsubstituted moieties.
Exemplary alkenyl groups include ethenyl (i.e., vinyl, or -CH=CH 2), n-propenyl
(-CH 2CH=CH 2), isopropenyl (-C(CH 3)=CH 2), and the like. The term includes halogenated
alkenyl groups. In certain embodiments, the alkenyl group is a fluorinated alkenyl group.
Non-limiting examples of moieties with which the alkenyl group can be substituted are
selected from the group consisting of halogen (fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo), hydroxyl,
carbonyl, sulfanyl, amino, alkylamino, arylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, nitro, cyano, sulfonic acid,
sulfate, phosphonic acid, phosphate, or phosphonate, either unprotected, or protected as
necessary.
[0024]      The term "cycloalkenyl," as used herein, unless otherwise specified, refers to an
unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon. In certain embodiments, cycloalkenyl refers to mono- or
                                                   7

multicyclic ring systems that include at least one double bond. In certain embodiments, the
cycloalkenyl group may be a bridged, non-bridged, and/or a fused bicyclic group. In certain
embodiments, the cycloalkyl group includes three to ten carbon atoms, i.e., C3 to CIO
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, the cycloalkenyl has from 3 to 7 (C 3 .1 0 ), or from 4 to 7 (C 3 .
7) carbon atoms. The term includes both substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkenyl groups,
including halogenated cycloalkenyl groups. In certain embodiments, the cycloalkenyl group is
a fluorinated cycloalkenyl group. Non-limiting examples of moieties with which the
cycloalkenyl group can be substituted are selected from the group consisting of halogen
(fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo), hydroxyl, carbonyl, sulfanyl, amino, alkylamino, arylamino,
alkoxy, aryloxy, nitro, cyano, sulfonic acid, sulfate, phosphonic acid, phosphate, or
phosphonate, either unprotected, or protected as necessary.
[0025]      "Alkenylene" refers to divalent olefinically unsaturated hydrocarbon groups, in
certain embodiments, having up to about 11 carbon atoms or from 2 to 6 carbon atoms which
can be straight-chained or branched and having at least 1 or from 1 to 2 sites of olefinic
unsaturation. This term is exemplified by groups such as ethenylene (-CH=CH-), the
propenylene isomers (e.g., -CH=CHCH 2- and -C(CH 3)=CH- and -CH=C(CH 3)-) and the
like. The term includes both substituted and unsubstituted alkenylene groups, including
halogenated alkenylene groups. In certain embodiments, the alkenylene group is a fluorinated
alkenylene group. Non-limiting examples of moieties with which the alkenylene group can be
substituted are selected from the group consisting of halogen (fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo),
hydroxyl, carbonyl, sulfanyl, amino, alkylamino, arylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, nitro, cyano,
sulfonic acid, sulfate, phosphonic acid, phosphate, or phosphonate, either unprotected, or
protected as necessary.
[0026]      "Alkynyl" refers to acetylenically unsaturated hydrocarbon groups, in certain
embodiments, having up to about 11 carbon atoms or from 2 to 6 carbon atoms which can be
straight-chained or branched and having at least 1 or from 1 to 2 sites of alkynyl unsaturation.
Non-limiting examples of alkynyl groups include acetylenic, ethynyl (-CBCH), propargyl
(-CH2C=CH), and the like. The term includes both substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl
groups, including halogenated alkynyl groups. In certain embodiments, the alkynyl group is a
fluorinated alkynyl group. Non-limiting examples of moieties with which the alkynyl group
can be substituted are selected from the group consisting of halogen (fluoro, chloro, bromo or
iodo), hydroxyl, carbonyl, sulfanyl, amino, alkylamino, arylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, nitro,
                                                 8

cyano, sulfonic acid, sulfate, phosphonic acid, phosphate, or phosphonate, either unprotected,
or protected as necessary.
[0027]      The term "aryl," as used herein, and unless otherwise specified, refers to phenyl,
biphenyl or naphthyl. The term includes both substituted and unsubstituted moieties. An aryl
group can be substituted with any described moiety, including, but not limited to, one or more
moieties selected from the group consisting of halogen (fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo), alkyl,
haloalkyl, hydroxyl, amino, alkylamino, arylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, nitro, cyano, sulfonic
acid, sulfate, phosphonic acid, phosphate, or phosphonate, either unprotected, or protected as
necessary, as known to those skilled in the art, for example, as taught in Greene, et al.,
Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, John Wiley and Sons, Second Edition, 1991.
[0028]      "Alkoxy" refers to the group -OR' where R' is alkyl or cycloalkyl. Alkoxy groups
include, by way of example, methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, isopropoxy, n-butoxy, tert-butoxy,
sec-butoxy, n-pentoxy, n-hexoxy, 1,2-dimethylbutoxy, and the like.
[0029]      "Alkoxycarbonyl" refers to a radical -C(O)-alkoxy where alkoxy is as defined
herein.
[0030]      "Amino" refers to the radical -NH 2.
[0031]      "Carboxyl" or "carboxy" refers to the radical -C(O)OH.
[0032]      The term "alkylanino" or "arylamino" refers to an amino group that has one or two
alkyl or aryl substituents, respectively. In certain embodiments, the alkyl substituent is lower
alkyl. In another embodiment, the alkyl or lower alkyl is unsubstituted.
[0033]       "Halogen" or "halo" refers to chloro, bromo, fluoro or iodo.
[0034]       "Thioalkoxy" refers to the group -SR' where R' is alkyl or cycloalkyl.
[0035]      The term "heterocyclyl" or "heterocyclic" refers to a monovalent monocyclic non
aromatic ring system and/or multicyclic ring system that contains at least one non-aromatic
ring, wherein one or more of the non-aromatic ring atoms are heteroatoms independently
selected from 0, S, or N; and the remaining ring atoms are carbon atoms. In certain
embodiments, the heterocyclyl or heterocyclic group has from 3 to 20, from 3 to 15, from 3 to
10, from 3 to 8, from 4 to 7, or from 5 to 6 ring atoms. Heterocyclyl groups are bonded to the
rest of the molecule through the non-aromatic ring. In certain embodiments, the heterocyclyl is
a monocyclic, bicyclic, tricyclic, or tetracyclic ring system, which may include a fused or
bridged ring system, and in which the nitrogen or sulfur atoms may be optionally oxidized, the
                                                  9

nitrogen atoms may be optionally quaternized, and some rings may be partially or fully
saturated, or aromatic. The heterocyclyl may be attached to the main structure at any
heteroatom or carbon atom which results in the creation of a stable compound. Examples of
such heterocyclic radicals include, but are not limited to, azepinyl, benzodioxanyl,
benzodioxolyl, benzofuranonyl, benzopyranonyl, benzopyranyl, benzotetrahydrofuranyl,
benzotetrahydrothienyl, benzothiopyranyl, benzoxazinyl, P-carbolinyl, chromanyl, chromonyl,
cinnolinyl, coumarinyl, decahydroisoquinolinyl, dihydrobenzisothiazinyl,
dihydrobenzisoxazinyl, dihydrofuryl, dihydroisoindolyl, dihydropyranyl, dihydropyrazolyl,
dihydropyrazinyl, dihydropyridinyl, dihydropyrimidinyl, dihydropyrrolyl, dioxolanyl, 1,4
dithianyl, furanonyl, imidazolidinyl, imidazolinyl, indolinyl, isobenzotetrahydrofuranyl,
isobenzotetrahydrothienyl, isochromanyl, isocoumarinyl, isoindolinyl, isothiazolidinyl,
isoxazolidinyl, morpholinyl, octahydroindolyl, octahydroisoindolyl, oxazolidinonyl,
oxazolidinyl, oxiranyl, piperazinyl, piperidinyl, 4-piperidonyl, pyrazolidinyl, pyrazolinyl,
pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, quinuclidinyl, tetrahydrofuryl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl,
tetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrothienyl, thiamorpholinyl, thiazolidinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, and
1,3,5-trithianyl. In certain embodiments, heterocyclic may also be optionally substituted as
described herein.
[0036]       The term "heteroaryl" refers to refers to a monovalent monocyclic aromatic group
and/or multicyclic aromatic group that contain at least one aromatic ring, wherein at least one
aromatic ring contains one or more heteroatoms independently selected from 0, S and N in the
ring. Heteroaryl groups are bonded to the rest of the molecule through the aromatic ring. Each
ring of a heteroaryl group can contain one or two 0 atoms, one or two S atoms, and/or one to
four N atoms, provided that the total number of heteroatoms in each ring is four or less and
each ring contains at least one carbon atom. In certain embodiments, the heteroaryl has from 5
to 20, from 5 to 15, or from 5 to 10 ring atoms. Examples of monocyclic heteroaryl groups
include, but are not limited to, furanyl, imidazolyl, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl,
oxadiazolyl, oxazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl,
thiadiazolyl, thiazolyl, thienyl, tetrazolyl, triazinyl and triazolyl. Examples of bicyclic
heteroaryl groups include, but are not limited to, benzofuranyl, benzimidazolyl,
benzoisoxazolyl, benzopyranyl, benzothiadiazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzothienyl,
benzotriazolyl, benzoxazolyl, furopyridyl, imidazopyridinyl, imidazothiazolyl, indolizinyl,
indolyl, indazolyl, isobenzofuranyl, isobenzothienyl, isoindolyl, isoquinolinyl, isothiazolyl,
naphthyridinyl, oxazolopyridinyl, phthalazinyl, pteridinyl, purinyl, pyridopyridyl,
pyrrolopyridyl, quinolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinazolinyl, thiadiazolopyrimidyl, and thienopyridyl.
                                                    10

Examples of tricyclic heteroaryl groups include, but are not limited to, acridinyl, benzindolyl,
carbazolyl, dibenzofuranyl, perimidinyl, phenanthrolinyl, phenanthridinyl, phenarsazinyl,
phenazinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxazinyl and xanthenyl. In certain embodiments, heteroaryl
may also be optionally substituted as described herein.
[0037]      The term "alkylaryl" refers to an aryl group with an alkyl substituent. The term
"aralkyl" or "arylalkyl" refers to an alkyl group with an aryl substituent.
[0038]      The term "protecting group" as used herein and unless otherwise defined refers to a
group that is added to an oxygen, nitrogen or phosphorus atom to prevent its further reaction or
for other purposes. A wide variety of oxygen and nitrogen protecting groups are known to
those skilled in the art of organic synthesis.
[0039]      "Pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to any salt of a compound provided herein
which retains its biological properties and which is not toxic or otherwise undesirable for
pharmaceutical use. Such salts may be derived from a variety of organic and inorganic
counter-ions well known in the art. Such salts include, but are not limited to: (1) acid addition
salts formed with organic or inorganic acids such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, nitric,
phosphoric, sulfamic, acetic, trifluoroacetic, trichloroacetic, propionic, hexanoic,
cyclopentylpropionic, glycolic, glutaric, pyruvic, lactic, malonic, succinic, sorbic, ascorbic,
malic, maleic, fumaric, tartaric, citric, benzoic, 3-(4-hydroxybenzoyl)benzoic, picric, cinnamic,
mandelic, phthalic, lauric, methanesulfonic, ethanesulfonic, 1,2-ethane-disulfonic, 2
hydroxyethanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic, 4-chlorobenzenesulfonic, 2-naphthalenesulfonic, 4
toluenesulfonic, camphoric, camphorsulfonic, 4-methylbicyclo[2.2.2]-oct-2-ene-1-carboxylic,
glucoheptonic, 3-phenylpropionic, trimethylacetic, tert-butylacetic, lauryl sulfuric, gluconic,
benzoic, glutamic, hydroxynaphthoic, salicylic, stearic, cyclohexylsulfamic, quinic, muconic
acid and the like acids; or (2) base addition salts formed when an acidic proton present in the
parent compound either (a) is replaced by a metal ion, e.g., an alkali metal ion, an alkaline
earth ion or an aluminum ion, or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides, such as
sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, aluminum, lithium, zinc, and barium hydroxide,
ammonia or (b) coordinates with an organic base, such as aliphatic, alicyclic, or aromatic
organic amines, such as ammonia, methylamine, dimethylamine, diethylamine, picoline,
ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, ethylenediamine, lysine, arginine, ornithine,
choline, N,N'-dibenzylethylene-diamine, chloroprocaine, diethanolamine, procaine, N
benzylphenethylamine, N-methylglucamine piperazine, tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane,
tetramethylammonium hydroxide, and the like.
                                                  11

[0040]      Pharmaceutically acceptable salts further include, by way of example only and
without limitation, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, ammonium, tetraalkylammonium
and the like, and when the compound contains a basic functionality, salts of non-toxic organic
or inorganic acids, such as hydrohalides, e.g. hydrochloride and hydrobromide, sulfate,
phosphate, sulfamate, nitrate, acetate, trifluoroacetate, trichloroacetate, propionate, hexanoate,
cyclopentylpropionate, glycolate, glutarate, pyruvate, lactate, malonate, succinate, sorbate,
ascorbate, malate, maleate, fumarate, tartarate, citrate, benzoate, 3-(4
hydroxybenzoyl)benzoate, picrate, cinnamate, mandelate, phthalate, laurate, methanesulfonate
(mesylate), ethanesulfonate, 1,2-ethane-disulfonate, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate,
benzenesulfonate (besylate), 4-chlorobenzenesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, 4
toluenesulfonate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, 4-methylbicyclo[2.2.2]-oct-2-ene-1
carboxylate, glucoheptonate, 3-phenylpropionate, trimethylacetate, tert-butylacetate, lauryl
sulfate, gluconate, benzoate, glutamate, hydroxynaphthoate, salicylate, stearate,
cyclohexylsulfamate, quinate, muconate and the like.
[0041]      The term "acyl" or "O-linked ester" refers to a group of the formula C(O)R',
wherein R' is alkyl or cycloalkyl (including lower alkyl), carboxylate reside of amino acid, aryl
including phenyl, alkaryl, arylalkyl including benzyl, alkoxyalkyl including methoxymethyl,
aryloxyalkyl such as phenoxymethyl; or substituted alkyl (including lower alkyl), aryl
including phenyl optionally substituted with chloro, bromo, fluoro, iodo, CI to C 4 alkyl or C1 to
C 4 alkoxy, sulfonate esters such as alkyl or arylalkyl sulphonyl including methanesulfonyl, the
mono, di or triphosphate ester, trityl or monomethoxy-trityl, substituted benzyl, alkaryl,
arylalkyl including benzyl, alkoxyalkyl including methoxymethyl, aryloxyalkyl such as
phenoxymethyl. Aryl groups in the esters optimally comprise a phenyl group. In particular,
acyl groups include acetyl, trifluoroacetyl, methylacetyl, cyclpropylacetyl, propionyl, butyryl,
hexanoyl, heptanoyl, octanoyl, neo-heptanoyl, phenylacetyl, 2-acetoxy-2-phenylacetyl,
diphenylacetyl, a-methoxy-a-trifluoromethyl-phenylacetyl, bromoacetyl, 2-nitro
benzeneacetyl, 4-chloro-benzeneacetyl, 2-chloro-2,2-diphenylacetyl, 2-chloro-2-phenylacetyl,
trimethylacetyl, chlorodifluoroacetyl, perfluoroacetyl, fluoroacetyl, bromodifluoroacetyl,
methoxyacetyl, 2-thiopheneacetyl, chlorosulfonylacetyl, 3-methoxyphenylacetyl,
phenoxyacetyl, tert-butylacetyl, trichloroacetyl, monochloro-acetyl, dichloroacetyl, 7H
dodecafluoro-heptanoyl, perfluoro-heptanoyl, 7H-dodeca-fluoroheptanoyl, 7
chlorododecafluoro-heptanoyl, 7-chloro-dodecafluoro-heptanoyl, 7H-dodecafluoroheptanoyl,
7H-dodeca-fluoroheptanoyl, nona-fluoro-3,6-dioxa-heptanoyl, nonafluoro-3,6-dioxaheptanoyl,
perfluoroheptanoyl, methoxybenzoyl, methyl 3-amino-5-phenylthiophene-2-carboxyl, 3,6
                                                  12

dichloro-2-methoxy-benzoyl, 4-(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethoxy)-benzoyl, 2-bromo-propionyl,
omega-aminocapryl, decanoyl, n-pentadecanoyl, stearyl, 3-cyclopentyl-propionyl, 1-benzene
carboxyl, 0-acetylmandelyl, pivaloyl acetyl, 1-adamantane-carboxyl, cyclohexane-carboxyl,
2,6-pyridinedicarboxyl, cyclopropane-carboxyl, cyclobutane-carboxyl, perfluorocyclohexyl
carboxyl, 4-methylbenzoyl, chloromethyl isoxazolyl carbonyl, perfluorocyclohexyl carboxyl,
crotonyl, 1-methyl-iH-indazole-3-carbonyl, 2-propenyl, isovaleryl, 1-pyrrolidinecarbonyl, 4
phenylbenzoyl.
[0042]       The term "amino acid" refers to naturally occurring and synthetic a, P 7 or 6 amino
acids, and includes but is not limited to, amino acids found in proteins, i.e. glycine, alanine,
valine, leucine, isoleucine, methionine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, proline, serine, threonine,
cysteine, tyrosine, asparagine, glutamine, aspartate, glutamate, lysine, arginine and histidine.
In certain embodiments, the amino acid is in the L-configuration. Alternatively, the amino
acid can be a derivative of alanyl, valinyl, leucinyl, isoleuccinyl, prolinyl, phenylalaninyl,
tryptophanyl, methioninyl, glycinyl, serinyl, threoninyl, cysteinyl, tyrosinyl, asparaginyl,
glutaminyl, aspartoyl, glutaroyl, lysinyl, argininyl, histidinyl, p-alanyl, p-valinyl, p-leucinyl, p
isoleuccinyl, p-prolinyl, p-phenylalaninyl, p-tryptophanyl, p-methioninyl, p-glycinyl, P
serinyl, p-threoninyl, p-cysteinyl, p-tyrosinyl, p-asparaginyl, p-glutaminyl, p-aspartoyl, P
glutaroyl, p-lysinyl,  -argininyl or p-histidinyl.
[0043]       The terms "polypeptide," "peptide" and "protein" are used interchangeably herein
to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. That is, a description directed to a polypeptide
applies equally to a description of a peptide and a description of a protein, and vice versa. The
terms apply to naturally occurring amino acid polymers as well as amino acid polymers in
which one or more amino acid residues is a modified amino acid. Additionally, such
"polypeptides," "peptides" and "proteins" include amino acid chains of any length, including
full length proteins, wherein the amino acid residues are linked by covalent peptide bonds.
[0044]       The term "substantially free of' or "substantially in the absence of' with respect to
a nucleoside composition refers to a nucleoside composition that includes at least 85 or 90% by
weight, in certain embodiments 95 %, 98 %, 99% or 100% by weight, of the designated
enantiomer of that nucleoside. In certain embodiments, in the methods and compounds
provided herein, the compounds are substantially free of enantiomers.
                                                  13

[0045]      Similarly, the term "isolated" with respect to a nucleoside composition refers to a
nucleoside composition that includes at least 85, 90%, 95%,    9 8 %, 99% to 100% by weight, of
the nucleoside, the remainder comprising other chemical species or enantiomers.
[0046]      "Solvate" refers to a compound provided herein or a salt thereof, that further
includes a stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amount of solvent bound by non-covalent
intermolecular forces. Where the solvent is water, the solvate is a hydrate.
[0047]      "Isotopic composition" refers to the amount of each isotope present for a given
atom, and "natural isotopic composition" refers to the naturally occurring isotopic composition
or abundance for a given atom. Atoms containing their natural isotopic composition may also
be referred to herein as "non-enriched" atoms. Unless otherwise designated, the atoms of the
compounds recited herein are meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. For example,
unless otherwise stated, when a position is designated specifically as "H" or "hydrogen," the
position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural isotopic composition.
[0048]      "Isotopic enrichment" refers to the percentage of incorporation of an amount of a
specific isotope at a given atom in a molecule in the place of that atom's natural isotopic
abundance. For example, deuterium enrichment of 1% at a given position means that 1% of
the molecules in a given sample contain deuterium at the specified position. Because the
naturally occurring distribution of deuterium is about 0.0156%, deuterium enrichment at any
position in a compound synthesized using non-enriched starting materials is about 0.0156%.
The isotopic enrichment of the compounds provided herein can be determined using
conventional analytical methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art, including mass
spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
[0049]      "Isotopically enriched" refers to an atom having an isotopic composition other than
the natural isotopic composition of that atom. "Isotopically enriched" may also refer to a
compound containing at least one atom having an isotopic composition other than the natural
isotopic composition of that atom.
[0050]      As used herein, "alkyl," "cycloalkyl," "alkenyl," "cycloalkenyl," "alkynyl," "aryl,"
"alkoxy," "alkoxycarbonyl," "amino," "carboxyl," "alkylamino," "arylamino," "thioalkyoxy,"
"heterocyclyl," "heteroaryl," "alkylheterocyclyl," "alkylheteroaryl," "acyl," "aralkyl,"
"alkaryl," "purine," "pyrimidine," "carboxyl" and "amino acid" groups optionally comprise
deuterium at one or more positions where hydrogen atoms are present, and wherein the
deuterium composition of the atom or atoms is other than the natural isotopic composition.
                                                 14

[0051]       Also as used herein, "alkyl," "cycloalkyl," "alkenyl," "cycloalkenyl," "alkynyl,"
"aryl," "alkoxy," "alkoxycarbonyl," "carboxyl," "alkylamino," "arylamino," "thioalkyoxy,"
"heterocyclyl," "heteroaryl," "alkylheterocyclyl," "alkylheteroaryl," "acyl," "aralkyl,"
"alkaryl," "purine," "pyrimidine," "carboxyl" and "amino acid" groups optionally comprise
carbon- 13 at an amount other than the natural isotopic composition.
[0052]       As used herein, EC5 0 refers to a dosage, concentration or amount of a particular test
compound that elicits a dose-dependent response at 50% of maximal expression of a particular
response that is induced, provoked or potentiated by the particular test compound.
[0053]       As used herein, the IC 50 refers to an amount, concentration or dosage of a particular
test compound that achieves a 50% inhibition of a maximal response in an assay that measures
such response.
[0054]       The term "host," as used herein, refers to any unicellular or multicellular organism
in which a virus can replicate, including cell lines and animals, and in certain embodiments, a
human. Alternatively, a host can be carrying a part of a viral genome, whose replication or
function can be altered by the compounds and compositions described herein. The term host
specifically includes infected cells, cells transfected with all or part of a viral genome and
animals, in particular, primates (including chimpanzees) and humans. In most animal
applications, the host is a human patient. Veterinary applications, in certain indications,
however, are clearly anticipated by the present disclosure (such as chimpanzees).
[0055]       As used herein, the terms "subject" and "patient" are used interchangeably herein.
The terms "subject" and "subjects" refer to an animal, such as a mammal including a non
primate (e.g., a cow, pig, horse, cat, dog, rat, and mouse) and a primate (e.g., a monkey such as
a cynomolgous monkey, a chimpanzee and a human), and for example, a human. In certain
embodiments, the subject is refractory or non-responsive to current treatments for hepatitis C
infection. In another embodiment, the subject is a farm animal (e.g., a horse, a cow, a pig, etc.)
or a pet (e.g., a dog or a cat). In certain embodiments, the subject is a human.
[0056]       As used herein, the terms "therapeutic agent" and "therapeutic agents" refer to any
agent(s) which can be used in the treatment or prevention of a disorder or one or more
symptoms thereof. In certain embodiments, the term "therapeutic agent" includes a compound
provided herein. In certain embodiments, a therapeutic agent is an agent which is known to be
useful for, or has been or is currently being used for the treatment or prevention of a disorder
or one or more symptoms thereof.
                                                   15

[0057]       "Therapeutically effective amount" refers to an amount of a compound or
composition that, when administered to a subject for treating a disease, is sufficient to effect
such treatment for the disease. A "therapeutically effective amount" can vary depending on,
inter alia, the compound, the disease and its severity, and the age, weight, etc., of the subject to
be treated.
[0058]       "Treating" or "treatment" of any disease or disorder refers, in certain embodiments,
to ameliorating a disease or disorder that exists in a subject. In another embodiment, "treating"
or "treatment" includes ameliorating at least one physical parameter, which may be
indiscernible by the subject. In yet another embodiment, "treating" or "treatment" includes
modulating the disease or disorder, either physically (e.g., stabilization of a discernible
symptom) or physiologically (e.g., stabilization of a physical parameter) or both. In yet
another embodiment, "treating" or "treatment" includes delaying the onset of the disease or
disorder.
[0059]       As used herein, the terms "prophylactic agent" and "prophylactic agents" as used
refer to any agent(s) which can be used in the prevention of a disorder or one or more
symptoms thereof. In certain embodiments, the term "prophylactic agent" includes a
compound provided herein. In certain other embodiments, the term "prophylactic agent" does
not refer a compound provided herein. For example, a prophylactic agent is an agent which is
known to be useful for, or has been or is currently being used to prevent or impede the onset,
development, progression and/or severity of a disorder.
[0060]       As used herein, the phrase "prophylactically effective amount" refers to the amount
of a therapy (e.g., prophylactic agent) which is sufficient to result in the prevention or
reduction of the development, recurrence or onset of one or more symptoms associated with a
disorder (, or to enhance or improve the prophylactic effect(s) of another therapy (e.g., another
prophylactic agent).
[0061]       The term "substantially pure" with respect to a composition comprising a modified
amino acid residue refers to a composition that includes at least 80, 85, 90 or 95 % by weight
or, in certain embodiments, 95, 98, 99 or 100 % by weight, e.g. dry weight, of the modified
amino acid residue relative to the remaining portion of the composition. The weight
percentage can be relative to the total weight of protein in the composition or relative to the
total weight of modified amino acid residues in the composition. Purity can be determined by
techniques apparent to those of skill in the art.
                                                  16

[0062]      The term "antibody" refers to any macromolecule that would be recognized as an
antibody by those of skill in the art. Antibodies share common properties including binding
and at least one polypeptide chain that is substantially identical to a polypeptide chain that can
be encoded by any of the immunoglobulin genes recognized by those of skill in the art. The
immunoglobulin genes include, but are not limited to, the    K, X, a, y (IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and
IgG4), 6, P and p constant region genes, as well as the immunoglobulin variable region genes.
The term includes full-length antibodies and antibody fragments recognized by those of skill in
the art, and variants thereof.
[0063]      The term "antibody fragment" refers to any form of an antibody other than the full
length form. Antibody fragments herein include antibodies that are smaller components that
exist within full-length antibodies, and antibodies that have been engineered. Antibody
fragments include but are not limited to Fv, Fc, Fab, and (Fab') 2 , single chain Fv (scFv),
diabodies, triabodies, tetrabodies, bifunctional hybrid antibodies, CDR1, CDR2, CDR3,
combinations of CDR's, variable regions, framework regions, constant regions, and the like
(Maynard & Georgiou, 2000, Annu. Rev. Biomed. Eng. 2:339-76; Hudson, 1998, Curr. Opin.
Biotechnol. 9:395-402).
[0064]      The term "immunoglobulin (Ig)" refers to a protein consisting of one or more
polypeptides substantially encoded by one of the immunoglobulin genes, or a protein
substantially identical thereto in amino acid sequence. Immunoglobulins include but are not
limited to antibodies. Immunoglobulins may have a number of structural forms, including but
not limited to full-length antibodies, antibody fragments, and individual immunoglobulin
domains including but not limited to VH, Cyl, Cy2, C13, VL, and CL
[0065]      The term "immunoglobulin (Ig) domain" refers to a protein domain consisting of a
polypeptide substantially encoded by an immunoglobulin gene. Ig domains include but are not
limited to VH, Cyl, Cy2, Cy3, VL, and CL
[0066]      The term "variable region" of an antibody refers to a polypeptide or polypeptides
composed of the VH immunoglobulin domain, the VL immunoglobulin domains, or the VH and
VL immunoglobulin domains. Variable region may refer to this or these polypeptides in
isolation, as an Fv fragment, as a scFv fragment, as this region in the context of a larger
antibody fragment, or as this region in the context of a full-length antibody or an alternative,
non-antibody scaffold molecule.
                                                 17

[0067]       The term "variable" refers to the fact that certain portions of the variable domains
differ extensively in sequence among antibodies and are responsible for the binding specificity
of each particular antibody for its particular antigen. However, the variability is not evenly
distributed through the variable domains of antibodies. It is concentrated in three segments
called Complementarity Determining Regions (CDRs) both in the light chain and the heavy
chain variable domains. The more highly conserved portions of the variable domains are called
the framework regions (FR). The variable domains of native heavy and light chains each
comprise four FR regions, largely adopting a f3-sheet configuration, connected by three or four
CDRs, which form loops connecting, and in some cases forming part of, the p-sheet structure.
The CDRs in each chain are held together in close proximity by the FR regions and, with the
CDRs from the other chain, contribute to the formation of the antigen binding site of antibodies
(see Kabat et al., Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health
Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md. (1991)).
[0068]       The constant domains are not typically involved directly in binding an antibody to
an antigen, but exhibit various effector functions. Depending on the amino acid sequence of
the constant region of their heavy chains, antibodies or immunoglobulins can be assigned to
different classes. There are five major classes of immunoglobulins: IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG and
IgM, and several of these may be further divided into subclasses (isotypes), e.g. IgGI, IgG2,
IgG3, and IgG4; IgAl and IgA2. The heavy chain constant regions that correspond to the
different classes of immunoglobulins are called a, 6, c, y and pL,respectively. Of the various
human immunoglobulin classes, only human IgGI, IgG2, IgG3 and IgM are known to activate
complement.
[0069]       The term "conjugate" refers to any moiety that can be connected to a modified
amino acid residue as described herein. In some embodiments, the terms "conjugate" and
"payload" are used interchangeably. A conjugate can be a small molecule or a macromolecule.
In some embodiments, the conjugate is a bioactive molecule including, but not limited to, a
protein, a peptide, a nucleic active or a hybrid thereof. In some embodiments, the conjugate is
a polymer such as polyethylene glycol. In some embodiments, a conjugate is a therapeutic
agent, including a commercially available drug. In some embodiments, a conjugate is a label
that can recognize and bind to specific targets, such as a molecular payload that is harmful to
target cells or a label useful for detection or diagnosis. In some embodiments, the conjugate is
connected to a modified amino acid residue via a linker. In some embodiments, the conjugate
is directly connected to a modified amino acid residue without a linker.
                                                   18

[0070]       The term "variant protein sequence" refers to a protein sequence that has one or
more residues that differ in amino acid identity from another similar protein sequence. Said
similar protein sequence may be the natural wild type protein sequence, or another variant of
the wild type sequence. Variants include proteins that have one or more amino acid insertions,
deletions or substitutions. Variants also include proteins that have one or more post
translationally modified amino acids.
[0071]       The term "parent antibody" refers to an antibody known to those of skill in the art
that is modified according to the description provided herein. The modification can be
physical, i.e., chemically or biochemically replacing or modifying one or more amino acids of
the parent antibody to yield an antibody within the scope of the present description. The
modification can also be conceptual, i.e., using the sequence of one or more polypeptide chains
of the parent antibody to design an antibody comprising one or more site-specific modified
amino acids according to the present description. Parent antibodies can be naturally occurring
antibodies or antibodies designed or developed in a laboratory. Parent antibodies can also be
artificial or engineered antibodies, e.g., chimeric or humanized antibodies.
[0072]       The term "conservatively modified variant" refers to a protein that differs from a
related protein by conservative substitutions in amino acid sequence. One of skill will
recognize that individual substitutions, deletions or additions to a peptide, polypeptide, or
protein sequence which alters, adds or deletes a single amino acid or a small percentage of
amino acids in the encoded sequence is a "conservatively modified variant" where the
alteration results in the substitution of an amino acid with a chemically similar amino acid.
Conservative substitution tables providing functionally similar amino acids are well known in
the art. Such conservatively modified variants are in addition to and do not exclude
polymorphic variants, interspecies homologs, and alleles.
[0073]       The following eight groups each contain amino acids that are conservative
substitutions for one another:
         1) Alanine (A), Glycine (G);
         2) Aspartic acid (D), Glutamic acid (E);
         3) Asparagine (N), Glutamine (Q);
         4) Arginine (R), Lysine (K);
         5) Isoleucine (I), Leucine (L), Methionine (M), Valine (V);
                                                  19

        6) Phenylalanine (F), Tyrosine (Y), Tryptophan (W);
        7) Serine (S), Threonine (T); and
        8) Cysteine (C), Methionine (M).
See, e.g., Creighton,Proteins:Structures and Molecular Properties,W H Freeman & Co.; 2nd
edition (December 1993).
[0074]      The terms "identical" or "identity," in the context of two or more polypeptide
sequences, refer to two or more sequences or subsequences that are the same. Sequences are
"substantially identical" if they have a percentage of amino acid residues or nucleotides that
are the same (i.e., about 60% identity, optionally about 65%, about 70%, about 75%, about
80%, about 85%, about 90%, or about 95% identity over a specified region), when compared
and aligned for maximum correspondence over a comparison window, or designated region as
measured using one of the following sequence comparison algorithms or by manual alignment
and visual inspection. The identity can exist over a region that is at least about 50 amino acids
or nucleotides in length, or over a region that is 75-100 amino acids or nucleotides in length,
or, where not specified, across the entire sequence or a polypeptide. In the case of antibodies,
identity can be measured outside the variable CDRs. Optimal alignment of sequences for
comparison can be conducted, including but not limited to, by the local homology algorithm of
Smith and Waterman (1970) Adv. Appl. Math. 2:482c, by the homology alignment algorithm
of Needleman and Wunsch (1970) J. Mol. Biol. 48:443, by the search for similarity method of
Pearson and Lipman (1988) Proc. Nat'l. Acad. Sci. USA 85:2444, by computerized
implementations of these algorithms (GAP, BESTFIT, FASTA, and TFASTA in the Wisconsin
Genetics Software Package, Genetics Computer Group, 575 Science Dr., Madison, Wis.); or by
manual alignment and visual inspection (see, e.g., Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in
Molecular Biology (1995 supplement)).
[0075]      Examples of algorithms that are suitable for determining percent sequence identity
and sequence similarity include the BLAST and BLAST 2.0 algorithms, which are described in
Altschul et al. (1977) Nuc. Acids Res. 25:3389-3402, and Altschul et al. (1990) J. Mol. Biol.
215:403-410, respectively. Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available
through the National Center for Biotechnology Information. The BLAST algorithm
parameters W, T, and X determine the sensitivity and speed of the alignment. The BLASTN
program (for nucleotide sequences) uses as defaults a wordlength (W) of 11, an expectation (E)
or 10, M=5, N=-4 and a comparison of both strands. For amino acid sequences, the BLASTP
                                                 20

program uses as defaults a wordlength of 3, and expectation (E) of 10, and the BLOSUM62
scoring matrix (see Henikoff and Henikoff (1989) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89:10915)
alignments (B) of 50, expectation (E) of 10, M=5, N=-4, and a comparison of both strands.
The BLAST algorithm is typically performed with the "low complexity" filter turned off. In
some embodiments, the BLAST algorithm is typically performed with the "low complexity"
filter turned on.
[0076]       The BLAST algorithm also performs a statistical analysis of the similarity between
two sequences (see, e.g., Karlin and Altschul (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90:5873
5787). One measure of similarity provided by the BLAST algorithm is the smallest sum
probability (P(N)), which provides an indication of the probability by which a match between
two nucleotide or amino acid sequences would occur by chance. For example, a nucleic acid is
considered similar to a reference sequence if the smallest sum probability in a comparison of
the test nucleic acid to the reference nucleic acid is less than about 0.2, more preferably less
than about 0.01, and most preferably less than about 0.001.
[0077]       The term "amino acid" refers to naturally occurring and non-naturally occurring
amino acids, as well as amino acids such as proline, amino acid analogs and amino acid
mimetics that function in a manner similar to naturally occurring amino acids.
[0078]       Naturally encoded amino acids are the proteinogenic amino acids known to those of
skill in the art. They include the 20 common amino acids (alanine, arginine, asparagine,
aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamine, glutamic acid, glycine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine,
methionine, phenylalanine, proline, serine, threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine, and valine) and the
less common pyrrolysine and selenocysteine. Naturally encoded amino acids include post
translational variants of the 22 naturally occurring amino acids such as prenylated amino acids,
isoprenylated amino acids, myrisoylated amino acids, palmitoylated amino acids, N-linked
glycosylated amino acids, O-linked glycosylated amino acids, phosphorylated amino acids and
acylated amino acids.
[0079]       The term "modified amino acid" refers to an amino acid that is not a proteinogenic
amino acid, or a post-translationally modified variant thereof. In particular, the term refers to
an amino acid that is not one of the 20 common amino acids or pyrrolysine or selenocysteine,
or post-translationally modified variants thereof.
             Compounds
[0080]       Provided herein are compounds according to formula I:
                                                 21

                                                    0
                                                  HO
                                                      NH2
                                               Formula I;
or a salt thereof, wherein: D is -Ar-W 3- or -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y        2 -W 2-; Ar is
                        ' f'2                         XT1 =       I.
                    Z       Z1      Z     1 ,Z        X,    N    N
                    HN                N-NH              N-N
                                                ,or
each of W 1 , W 2 , and W 3 is independently a single bond or lower alkylene; each X1 is
independently -NH-, -0-, or -S-; each Y1 is independently a single bond, -NH-, or -0-;
each Y 2 is independently a single bond, -NH-, -0-, or an N-linked or C-linked
pyrrolidinylene; and one of Z 1 , Z 2 , and Z3 is -N- and the others of Z 1 , Z2 , and Z 3 are
independently -CH-.
[0081]       In an embodiment, D is -Ar-W 3-; and Ar and W 3 are as defined in the context of
formula I. In a particular embodiment, D is -Ar-W 3 -; and Ar is
                                 2            Z2
                         Z3   - Z1           -Z1
                            I      or
and Ar, Z 1 , Z2 , Z3 and W 3 are as defined in the context of formula I. In certain embodiments,
D is -Ar-W 3-; and Ar is
                     Z      ZX
                            ZN          1
                        I        or             ;
and Ar, Z 1 , Z3 , X 1 and W 3 are as defined in the context of formula I. In certain embodiments,
D is -Ar-W 3-; W 3 is -CH 2-; and Ar is
                                                       22

                       Z2
where Z1 and Z2 are as defined in the context of formula I.
[0082]      In an embodiment, D is -WI-Y1-C(O)-Y 2 -W 2 -; and W 1 , W 2 , Y 1, and Y 2 are as
defined in the context of formula I. In particular embodiments, D is -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y        2 -W 2 -;
and each Y1 is independently -NH- or -0-; and W1, W2 and Y2 are as defined in the context
of formula I. In certain embodiments, D is -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y      2 -W 2 -; each Y 2 is independently
an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and each W2 is a single bond; and W1 and Y1 are as
defined in the context of formula I. In a particular embodiment, D is -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y          2 -W 2 -;
each Y2 is independently a single bond, -NH- or -0-; and each W2 is lower alkylene; and W1
and Y1 are as defined in the context of formula I.
[0083]      In an embodiment, a compound according to formula Ta is provided:
                                             0
                                         HO           D'N3
                                                NH2
                                        Formula Ia;
where D is a defined in the context of formula I.
[0084]      In an embodiment, compounds of either of formulas I and Ta are provided wherein
each of W 2 and W 3 is independently C1 -C 3 alkylene. In another embodiment, compounds of
either of formulas I and Ta are provided wherein each of W 2 and W 3 is independently C -C 2
alkylene.
[0085]      In an embodiment, a compound according to formula II is provided:
                                                 N3 ,
                                                      W4
                                               0
                                           HO
                                                   NH2
                                           Formula II;
                                                 23

or a salt thereof, wherein W 4 is CI-C 10 alkylene. In a further embodiment, W 4 is CI-C 5
alkylene. In an embodiment, W 4 is CI-C    3 alkylene. In an embodiment, W 4 is C1 alkylene.
[0086]       In an embodiment, a compound according to formula 30 is provided:
                                                     N3
                                                  0
                                             HO
                                                      NH2
                                                 (30);
or a salt thereof.
[0087]       In an embodiment, a compound according to any of formulas 1-29 and 40 is
provided:
                N3                               N3                            N3
                                                        N
              O     -N                        O                                O      -N
         HO      .                        HO       .                      HO
                 NH2                              NH2                              NH2
               (1)                             (2)                               (3)
              N3                               N3
                      N                                                           SN       3
              000                              ON                            O,-
         HO                                HO                           HO
                 NH2                               NH2                          NH2
               (4)                             (5)                               (6)
                       N3                        O        N3                           --N3
             ON,                                      N                              N
      HO                                HO     -                        HO
               NH2                             NH2                              NH2
               (7)                             (8)                               (9)
                                                   24

                                                        N3                        N3
              HN         N3                       N-N                                N
           00
      HO       .                        HO    -                            HO
              NH2                                NH2                               NH2
              (10)                             (1)(12)
                                                                                    N3
                         N3                              N3
              0      N                          S    N                              SN
      HO       .                       HO       _                         HO        _
              NH2                              NH2                                 NH2
              (13)                             (14)                             (15)
                  N3
                                                N-NH
                                                     N3
         HO            N              HO                  N3HO                   N      N    N3
                   H2                         NH2                         NH 2   H      H
              (16)                             (17)                             (18)
      O           0                   0            0                  0             0
 HO            N )O        _N3     HO           N            N3   HO                  N   N3
                        H                       H                         -H
         NH2 H                            NH2                             NH2
              (19)                             (20)                             (21)
     O            0                     0            H                  0
 HO            O)N"          N3     HO                      N3      HO                N    N3
         NH2          H                    NH2 O                            NH2 O
              (22)                             (23)                             (24)
      O                      N3       0            0                 0             0
 HO                N               HO                 N      N3  HO)I>
          NH    0                                                                      N       N3
                                          N4H
                                            2                           NH 2                  N3
              (25)                             (26)                             (27)
     O            0                   0            0                                 H
 HO                    N       3N  HO           NN           N3H 2N                  N          N3
               H               3NH              H            N3                         0
         N4H2       HN                    N 2                     0    OH
              (28)                             (29)                            (40);
or a salt thereof.
                                                  25

[0088]      In an embodiment, a polypeptide is provided comprising an amino acid residue
corresponding to a compound of formula I, Ta, II, 1-30 or 40. In an embodiment, a conjugate is
provided comprising a polypeptide comprising an amino acid residue corresponding to a
compound of formula I, Ta, II, 1-30 or 40 linked to a payload and optionally comprising a
linking moiety between the polypeptide and the payload.
[0089]      In an embodiment, an antibody is provided comprising an amino acid residue
corresponding to a compound of formula I, Ta, II, 1-30 or 40. In an embodiment, a conjugate is
provided comprising an antibody comprising an amino acid residue corresponding to a
compound of formula I, Ta, II, 1-30 or 40 linked to a payload and optionally comprising a
linking moiety between the antibody and the payload.
[0090]      In an embodiment, an orthogonal tRNA is provided aminoacylated with an amino
acid residue corresponding to a compound of formula I, Ia, II, 1-30 or 40. In a related
embodiment, a method of producing a polypeptide is provided, comprising contacting a
polypeptide with an orthogonal tRNA aminoacylated with an amino acid residue
corresponding to a compound of formula I, Ta, I, 1-30 or 40 under conditions suitable for
incorporating the amino acid residue into the polypeptide. In an aspect, the orthogonal tRNA
base pairs with a codon that is not normally associated with an amino acid. In another aspect,
the contacting occurs in a reaction mixture which comprises a tRNA synthetase capable of
aminoacylating the orthogonal tRNA with a compound of formula I, Ta, II, 1-30 or 40.
[0091]      In certain embodiments, a polypeptide comprising a modified amino acid residue is
provided according to any of the following formulas, where D is as defined in the context of
formula I:
                                N3            N3               N3
                                D             D                D
                                H    0        H     0    or    H     0
Those of skill in the art will recognize that proteins are generally comprised of L-amino acids.
However, with modified amino acids, the present methods and compositions provide the
practitioner with the ability to use L-, D- or racemic modified amino acids. In certain
embodiments, the modified amino acids described herein include D- versions of the natural
amino acids and racemic versions of the natural amino acids.
            Huisgen CycloadditionReaction
                                                  26

[0092]       Advantageously, the modified amino acids comprising azido groups, such as
compounds according to any of formulas I, Ta, II, 1-30 or 40, provided herein and the
polypeptides comprising them facilitate selective and efficient reactions with a second
compound comprising an alkyne group. It is believed the azido and alkyne groups react in a
1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction to form a 1,2,3-triazolylene moiety which links the modified
amino acid (or polypeptide comprising the modified amino acid) to the second compound.
This reaction between an azide and alkyne to form a triazole is generally known to those in the
art as a Huisgen cycloaddition reaction.
[0093]       The unique reactivity of azide and alkyne functional groups makes them extremely
useful for the selective modification of polypeptides and other biological molecules. Organic
azides, particularly aliphatic azides, and alkynes are generally stable toward common reactive
chemical conditions. In particular, both the azide and the alkyne functional groups are inert
toward the side chains (i.e., R groups) of the 20 common amino acids found in naturally
occurring polypeptides. When brought into close proximity, however, the "spring-loaded"
nature of the azide and alkyne groups is revealed and they react selectively and efficiently via
Huisgen [3+2] cycloaddition reaction to generate the corresponding triazole. See, e.g., Chin J.,
et al., Science 301:964-7 (2003); Wang,    Q., et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125, 3192-3193 (2003);
Chin, J. W., et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124:9026-9027 (2002).
[0094]       Because the Huisgen cycloaddition reaction involves a selective cycloaddition
reaction (see, e.g., Padwa, A., in COMPREHENSIVE ORGANIC SYNTHESIS, Vol. 4, (ed.
Trost, B. M., 1991), p. 1069-1109; Huisgen, R. in 1,3-DIPOLAR CYCLOADDITION
CHEMISTRY, (ed. Padwa, A., 1984), p. 1-176) rather than a nucleophilic substitution, the
incorporation of non-naturally encoded amino acids bearing azide and alkyne-containing side
chains permits the resultant polypeptides to be modified selectively at the position of the non
naturally encoded amino acid. Cycloaddition reaction involving azide or alkyne-containing
compounds can be carried out at room temperature under aqueous conditions by the addition of
Cu(II) (including but not limited to, in the form of a catalytic amount of CuSO 4 ) in the
presence of a reducing agent for reducing Cu(II) to Cu(I), in situ, in catalytic amount. See, e.g.,
Wang,    Q., et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125, 3192-3193 (2003); Tomoe, C. W., et al., J. Org.
Chem. 67:3057-3064 (2002); Rostovtsev, et al., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 41:2596-2599 (2002).
Exemplary reducing agents include, including but not limited to, ascorbate, metallic copper,
quinine, hydroquinone, vitamin K, glutathione, cysteine, Fe 2+, Co2+ , and an applied electric
potential.
                                                  27

             Polypeptides
[0095]       Provided herein are polypeptides comprising one or more modified amino acid
residues at site-specific positions in an amino acid sequence of at least one polypeptide chain.
In an embodiment, the compositions are antibodies comprising one or more modified amino
acid residues at site-specific positions in the amino acid sequence of at least one polypeptide
chain.
[0096]       The polypeptide can share high sequence identity with any polypeptide recognized
by those of skill in the art, i.e. a parent polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the amino acid
sequence of the polypeptide is identical to the amino acid sequence of the parent polypeptide,
other than the modified amino acids at site-specific positions. In further embodiments, the
polypeptide provided herein can have one or more insertions, deletions or mutations relative to
the parent polypeptide in addition to the one or more modified amino acids at the site-specific
positions. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide provided herein can have a unique primary
sequence, so long as it would be recognized as a polypeptide by those of skill in the art. In
certain aspects of this embodiment, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[0097]       The compositions and methods described herein provide for the incorporation of at
least one modified amino acid into a polypeptide. The modified amino acid may be present at
any location on the polypeptide, including any terminal position or any internal position of the
polypeptide. Preferably, the modified amino acid does not destroy the activity and/or the
tertiary structure of the polypeptide relative to the homologous naturally-occurring amino acid
polypeptide, unless such destruction of the activity and/or tertiary structure was one of the
purposes of incorporating the modified amino acid into the polypeptide. Further, the
incorporation of the modified amino acid into the polypeptide may modify to some extent the
activity (e.g., manipulating the therapeutic effectiveness of the polypeptide, improving the
safety profile of the polypeptide, adjusting the pharmacokinetics, pharmacologics and/or
pharmacodynamics of the polypeptide (e.g., increasing water solubility, bioavailability,
increasing serum half-life, increasing therapeutic half-life, modulating immunogenicity,
modulating biological activity, or extending the circulation time), providing additional
functionality to the polypeptide, incorporating a tag, label or detectable signal into the
polypeptide, easing the isolation properties of the polypeptide, and any combination of the
aforementioned modifications) and/or tertiary structure of the polypeptide relative to the
homologous naturally-occurring amino acid polypeptide without fully causing destruction of
the activity and/or tertiary structure. Such modifications of the activity and/or tertiary structure
                                                   28

are often one of the goals of effecting such incorporations, although the incorporation of the
modified amino acid into the polypeptide may also have little effect on the activity and/or
tertiary structure of the polypeptide relative to the homologous naturally-occurring amino acid
polypeptide. Correspondingly, modified amino acid polypeptides, compositions comprising
modified amino acid polypeptides, methods for making such polypeptides and polypeptide
compositions, methods for purifying, isolating, and characterizing such polypeptides and
polypeptide compositions, and methods for using such polypeptides and polypeptide
compositions are considered within the scope of the present disclosure. Further, the modified
amino acid polypeptides described herein may also be ligated to another polypeptide
(including, by way of example, a modified amino acid polypeptide or a naturally-occurring
amino acid polypeptide).
[0098]       The methods, compositions, strategies and techniques described herein are not
limited to a particular type, class or family of polypeptides or proteins. Indeed, virtually any
polypeptide may include at least one modified amino acids described herein. By way of
example only, the polypeptide can be homologous to a therapeutic protein selected from the
group consisting of: alpha-i antitrypsin, angiostatin, antihemolytic factor, antibody,
apolipoprotein, apoprotein, atrial natriuretic factor, atrial natriuretic polypeptide, atrial peptide,
C-X-C chemokine, T39765, NAP-2, ENA-78, gro-a, gro-b, gro-c, IP-10, GCP-2, NAP-4,
SDF-1, PF4, MIG, calcitonin, c-kit ligand, cytokine, CC chemokine, monocyte
chemoattractant protein-1, monocyte chemoattractant protein-2, monocyte chemoattractant
protein-3, monocyte inflammatory protein-i alpha, monocyte inflammatory protein-lbeta,
RANTES, 1309, R83915, R91733, HCCi, T58847, D31065, T64262, CD40, CD40 ligand, c
kit ligand, collagen, colony stimulating factor (CSF), complement factor 5a, complement
inhibitor, complement receptor 1, cytokine, epithelial neutrophil activating peptide-78, MIP
16, MCP-i, epidermal growth factor (EGF), epithelial neutrophil activating peptide,
erythropoietin (EPO), exfoliating toxin, Factor IX, Factor VII, Factor VIII, Factor X, fibroblast
growth factor (FGF), fibrinogen, fibronectin, four-helical bundle protein, G-CSF, glp-1, GM
CSF, glucocerebrosidase, gonadotropin, growth factor, growth factor receptor, grf, hedgehog
protein, hemoglobin, hepatocyte growth factor (hGF), hirudin, human growth hormone (hGH),
human serum albumin, ICAM- 1, ICAM- I receptor, LFA- 1, LFA- I receptor, insulin, insulin
like growth factor (IGF), IGF-I, IGF-II, interferon (IFN), IFN-alpha, IFN-beta, IFN-gamma,
interleukin (IL), IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL- 11, IL-12,
keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), lactoferrin, leukemia inhibitory factor, luciferase, neurturin,
neutrophil inhibitory factor (NIF), oncostatin M, osteogenic protein, oncogene product,
                                                  29

paracitonin, parathyroid hormone, PD-ECSF, PDGF, peptide hormone, pleiotropin, protein A,
protein G, pth, pyrogenic exotoxin A, pyrogenic exotoxin B, pyrogenic exotoxin C, pyy,
relaxin, renin, SCF, small biosynthetic protein, soluble complement receptor I, soluble I-CAM
1, soluble interleukin receptor, soluble TNF receptor, somatomedin, somatostatin,
somatotropin, streptokinase, superantigens, staphylococcal enterotoxin, SEA, SEB, SECT,
SEC2, SEC3, SED, SEE, steroid hormone receptor, superoxide dismutase, toxic shock
syndrome toxin, thymosin alpha 1, tissue plasminogen activator, tumor growth factor (TGF),
tumor necrosis factor, tumor necrosis factor alpha, tumor necrosis factor beta, tumor necrosis
factor receptor (TNFR), VLA-4 protein, VCAM-1 protein, vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF), urokinase, mos, ras, raf, met, p53, tat, fos, myc, jun, myb, rel, estrogen receptor,
progesterone receptor, testosterone receptor, aldosterone receptor, LDL receptor, and
corticosterone. In a related or further embodiment, the modified amino acid polypeptide may
also be homologous to any polypeptide member of the growth hormone supergene family.
[0099]       In certain embodiments, the modified amino acids can be at any position within the
polypeptide - at the N-terminus, at the C-terminus, or within the polypeptide. In advantageous
embodiments, the modified amino acids are positioned at select locations in a polypeptide.
These locations are identified as providing optimum sites for substitution with the modified
amino acids. Each site is capable of bearing a modified amino acid with optimum structure,
function and/or methods for producing the polypeptide.
[00100]      In certain embodiments, a site-specific position for substitution provides a
polypeptide that is stable. Stability can be measured by any technique apparent to those of
skill in the art.
[00101]      In certain embodiments, a site-specific position for substitution provides a
polypeptide that is has optimal functional properties. For instance, the polypeptide can show
little or no loss of binding affinity for its target compared to a polypeptide without the site
specific modified amino acid. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can show enhanced
binding compared to a polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain
aspects of this embodiment, the polypeptide is an antibody and the target is an antigen.
[00102]      In certain embodiments, a site-specific position for substitution provides a
polypeptide that can be made advantageously. For instance, in certain embodiments, the
polypeptide shows advantageous properties in its methods of synthesis, discussed herein. In
certain embodiments, the polypeptide can show little or no loss in yield in production
compared to a polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain
                                                    30

embodiments, the polypeptide can show enhanced yield in production compared to a
polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain embodiments, the
polypeptide can show little or no loss of tRNA suppression, described herein, compared to a
polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain embodiments, the
polypeptide can show enhanced tRNA suppression, described herein, in production compared
to a polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain aspects of this
embodiment, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00103]      In certain embodiments, a site-specific position for substitution provides a
polypeptide that has advantageous solubility. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can
show little or no loss in solubility compared to a polypeptide without the site-specific modified
amino acid. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can show enhanced solubility compared
to a polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain aspects of this
embodiment, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00104]      In certain embodiments, a site-specific position for substitution provides a
polypeptide that has advantageous expression. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can
show little or no loss in expression compared to a polypeptide without the site-specific
modified amino acid. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can show enhanced expression
compared to a polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain aspects of
this embodiment, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00105]      In certain embodiments, a site-specific position for substitution provides a
polypeptide that has advantageous folding. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can show
little or no loss in proper folding compared to a polypeptide without the site-specific modified
amino acid. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can show enhanced folding compared to
a polypeptide without the site-specific modified amino acid. In certain aspects of this
embodiment, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00106]      In certain embodiments, a site-specific position for substitution provides a
polypeptide that is capable of advantageous conjugation. As described herein, several
modified amino acids have side chains or functional groups that facilitate conjugation of the
polypeptide to a second agent, either directly or via a linker. In certain embodiments, the
polypeptide can show enhanced conjugation efficiency compared to a polypeptide without the
same or other modified amino acids at other positions. In certain embodiments, the
polypeptide can show enhanced conjugation yield compared to a polypeptide without the same
or other modified amino acids at other positions. In certain embodiments, the polypeptide can
                                                31

show enhanced conjugation specificity compared to a polypeptide without the same or other
modified amino acids at other positions. In certain aspects of this embodiment, the polypeptide
is an antibody.
[00107]     In certain embodiments, further provided herein are conservatively modified
variants of the polypeptides and antibodies described herein. Conservatively modified variants
of a polypeptide include one or more insertions, deletions or substitutions that do not disrupt
the structure and/or function of the polypeptide when evaluated by one of skill in the art. In
certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants include 20 or fewer amino acid
insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants
include 15 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments,
conservatively modified variants include 10 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or
substitutions. In certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants include 9 or fewer
amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, conservatively
modified variants include 8 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In
certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants include 7 or fewer amino acid
insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants
include 6 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments,
conservatively modified variants include 5 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or
substitutions. In certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants include 4 or fewer
amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, conservatively
modified variants include 3 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In
certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants include 2 or fewer amino acid
insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, conservatively modified variants
include 1 amino acid insertion, deletion or substitution. In particular embodiments the
substitutions are conservative, substituting an amino acid within the same class, as described
herein. In particular embodiments, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00108]     In certain embodiments, the polypeptides can be modified to modulate structure,
stability and/or activity. In such embodiments, the modifications can be conservative or other
than conservative. The modifications need only be suitable to the practitioner carrying out the
methods and using the compositions described herein. In certain embodiments where the
polypeptide is an antibody, the modifications decrease but do not eliminate antigen binding
affinity. In certain embodiments where the polypeptide is an antibody, the modifications
increase antigen binding affinity. In certain embodiments, the modifications enhance structure
                                                  32

or stability of the polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the modifications reduce but do not
eliminate structure or stability of the polypeptide. In certain embodiments, modified variants
include 20 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments,
modified variants include 15 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In
certain embodiments, modified variants include 10 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or
substitutions. In certain embodiments, modified variants include 9 or fewer amino acid
insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, modified variants include 8 or
fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, modified
variants include 7 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain
embodiments, modified variants include 6 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or
substitutions. In certain embodiments, modified variants include 5 or fewer amino acid
insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, modified variants include 4 or
fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain embodiments, modified
variants include 3 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or substitutions. In certain
embodiments, modified variants include 2 or fewer amino acid insertions, deletions or
substitutions. In certain embodiments, modified variants include 1 amino acid insertion,
deletion or substitution.
[00109]      Also within the scope are post-translationally modified variants. Any of the
polypeptides provided herein can be post-translationally modified in any manner recognized by
those of skill in the art. Typical post-translational modifications for polypeptides include
interchain disulfide bonding, intrachain disulfide bonding, N-linked glycosylation and
proteolysis. Also provided herein are other post-translationally modified polypeptides having
modifications such as phosphorylation, 0-linked glycosylation, methylation, acetylation,
lipidation, GPI anchoring, myristoylation and prenylation. The post-translational modification
can occur during production, in vivo, in vitro or otherwise. In certain embodiments, the post
translational modification can be an intentional modification by a practitioner, for instance,
using the methods provided herein. In particular embodiments, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00110]      Further included are polypeptides fused to further peptides or polypeptides.
Exemplary fusions include, but are not limited to, e.g., a methionyl polypeptide in which a
methionine is linked to the N-terminus of the polypeptide resulting from the recombinant
expression, fusions for the purpose of purification (including but not limited to, to poly
histidine or affinity epitopes), fusions for the purpose of linking to other biologically active
molecules, fusions with serum albumin binding peptides, and fusions with serum proteins such
                                                  33

as serum albumin. The polypeptides may comprise protease cleavage sequences, reactive
groups, polypeptide-binding domains (including but not limited to, FLAG or poly-His) or other
affinity based sequences (including but not limited to, FLAG, poly-His, GST, etc.). The
polypeptides may also comprise linked molecules (including but not limited to, biotin) that
improve detection (including but not limited to, GFP), purification or other features of the
polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the polypeptides comprise a C-terminal affinity
sequence that facilitates purification of full length polypeptides. In certain embodiments, such
C-terminal affinity sequence is a poly-His sequence, e.g., a 6-His sequence. In particular
embodiments, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00111]      Also provided herein are polypeptides that are conjugated to one or more
conjugation moieties. The conjugation moiety can be any conjugation moiety deemed useful
to one of skill in the art. For instance, the conjugation moiety can be a polymer, such as
polyethylene glycol, that can improve the stability of the polypeptide in vitro or in vivo. The
conjugation moiety can have therapeutic activity, thereby yielding a polypeptide-drug
conjugate. The conjugation moiety can be a molecular payload that is harmful to target cells.
The conjugation moiety can be a label useful for detection or diagnosis. In certain
embodiments, the conjugation moiety is linked to the polypeptide via a direct covalent bond.
In certain embodiments, the conjugation moiety is linked to the polypeptide via a linker. In
advantageous embodiments, the conjugation moiety or the linker is attached via one of the
modified amino acids of the polypeptide. Exemplary conjugation moieties and linkers are
described herein. In particular embodiments, the polypeptide is an antibody.
[00112]     The parent polypeptide can be any polypeptide known to those of skill in the art, or
later discovered, without limitation. In particular embodiments, the polypeptide is an antibody.
The parent polypeptide may be substantially encoded by a polypeptide gene or polypeptide
genes from any organism, including but not limited to humans, mice, rats, rabbits, camels,
llamas, dromedaries, monkeys, particularly mammals and particularly human and particularly
mice and rats. In one embodiment, the parent polypeptide may be fully human, obtained for
example from a patient or subject, by using transgenic mice or other animals (see Bruggemann
& Taussig, 1997, Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 8:455-458 for antibody examples) or human
polypeptide libraries coupled with selection methods (see Griffiths & Duncan, 1998, Curr.
Opin. Biotechnol. 9:102-108 for antibody examples). The parent polypeptide may be from any
source, including artificial or naturally occurring. For example, a parent polypeptide can be an
engineered polypeptide, including but not limited to chimeric polypeptides and humanized
                                                  34

polypeptides (see Clark, 2000, Immunol. Today 21:397-402 for antibody examples) or derived
from a combinatorial library. In addition, the parent polypeptide may be an engineered variant
of a polypeptide that is substantially encoded by one or more natural polypeptide genes. For
example, in one embodiment the parent polypeptide is a polypeptide that has been identified by
affinity maturation.
[00113]      Parent polypeptides can be any polypeptide known in the art or any polypeptide
developed by those of skill in the art without limitation. Antibody examples include, but are
not limited to anti-TNF antibody (U.S. Pat. No. 6,258,562), anti-IL-12 and/or anti-IL-12p40
antibody (U.S. Pat. No. 6,914,128); anti-IL-18 antibody (U.S. Patent Publication No.
2005/0147610), anti-05, anti-CBL, anti-CD147, anti-gp120, anti-VLA-4, anti-CD1 1a, anti
CD 18, anti-VEGF, anti-CD40L, anti CD-40 (e.g., see PCT Publication No. WO 2007/124299)
anti-Id, anti-ICAM-1, anti-CXCL13, anti-CD2, anti-EGFR, anti-TGF-beta 2, anti-HGF, anti
cMet, anti DLL-4, anti-NPR1, anti-PLGF, anti-ErbB3, anti-E-selectin, anti-Fact VII, anti
Her2/neu, anti-F gp, anti-CD 11/18, anti-CD 14, anti-ICAM-3, anti-RON, anti-SOST, anti CD
19, anti-CD80 (e.g., see PCT Publication No. WO 2003/039486, anti-CD4, anti-CD3, anti
CD23, anti-beta2-integrin, anti-alpha4beta7, anti-CD52, anti-HLA DR, anti-CD22 (e.g., see
U.S. Pat. No. 5,789,554), anti-CD20, anti-MIF, anti-CD64 (FcR), anti-TCR alpha beta, anti
CD2, anti-Hep B, anti-CA 125, anti-EpCAM, anti-gp120, anti-CMV, anti-gpIIbIIIa, anti-IgE,
anti-CD25, anti-CD33, anti-HLA, anti-IGF1,2, anti IGFR, anti-VNRintegrin, anti-IL-lalpha,
anti-IL-1beta, anti-IL-i receptor, anti-IL-2 receptor, anti-IL-4, anti-IL-4 receptor, anti-IL5,
anti-IL-5 receptor, anti-IL-6, anti-IL-8, anti-IL-9, anti-IL-13, anti-IL-13 receptor, anti-IL-17,
anti-IL-6R, anti-RANKL, anti-NGF, anti-DKK, anti-alphaVbeta3, anti-IL-17A, anti-IL23p19
and anti-IL-23 (see Presta, L. G. (2005) J. Allergy Clin. Immunol. 116: 731-6).
[00114]      Parent polypeptides may also be selected from various therapeutic polypeptides
approved for use, in clinical trials, or in development for clinical use. Antibody examples of
such therapeutic polypeptides include, but are not limited to, rituximab (Rituxan,
IDEC/Genentech/Roche) (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,736,137), a chimeric anti-CD20
antibody approved to treat Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; HuMax-CD20, an anti-CD20 currently
being developed by Genmab, an anti-CD20 antibody described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,500,362,
AME-133 (Applied Molecular Evolution), hA20 (Immunomedics, Inc.), HumaLYM (Intracel),
and PR070769 (PCT Application No. PCT/US2003/040426), trastuzumab (Herceptin,
Genentech) (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,677,171), a humanized anti-Her2/neu antibody
approved to treat breast cancer; pertuzumab (rhuMab-2C4, Omnitarg), currently being
                                                  35

developed by Genentech; an anti-Her2 antibody (U.S. Pat. No. 4,753,894; cetuximab
(Erbitux@, Imclone) (U.S. Pat. No. 4,943,533; PCT Publication No. WO 96/40210), a chimeric
anti-EGFR antibody in clinical trials for a variety of cancers; ABX-EGF (U.S. Pat. No.
6,235,883), currently being developed by Abgenix-Immunex-Amgen; HuMax-EGFr (U.S. Pat.
No. 7,247,301), currently being developed by Genmab; 425, EMD55900, EMD62000, and
EMD72000 (Merck KGaA) (U.S. Pat. No. 5,558,864; Murthy, et al. (1987) Arch. Biochem.
Biophys. 252(2): 549-60; Rodeck, et al. (1987) J. Cell. Biochem. 35(4): 315-20;
Kettleborough, et al. (1991) Protein Eng. 4(7): 773-83); ICR62 (Institute of Cancer Research)
(PCT Publication No. WO 95/20045; Modjtahedi, et al. (1993) J. Cell. Biophys. 22(1-3): 129
46; Modjtahedi, et al. (1993) Br. J. Cancer 67(2): 247-53; Modjtahedi, et al. (1996) Br. J.
Cancer 73(2): 228-35; Modjtahedi, et al. (2003) Int. J. Cancer 105(2): 273-80); TheraCIM hR3
(YM Biosciences, Canada and Centro de Immunologia Molecular, Cuba (U.S. Pat. No.
5,891,996; U.S. Pat. No. 6,506,883; Mateo, et al. (1997) Immunotechnol. 3(1): 71-81); mAb
806 (Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Memorial Sloan-Kettering) (Jungbluth, et al.
(2003) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 100(2): 639-44); KSB-102 (KS Biomedix); MR1-1 (IVAX,
National Cancer Institute) (PCT Publication No. WO 01/62931A2); and SC100 (Scancell)
(PCT Publication No. WO 01/88138); alemtuzumab (Campath@, Millenium), a humanized
mAb currently approved for treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia; muromonab
CD3 (Orthoclone OKT3@), an anti-CD3 antibody developed by Ortho Biotech/Johnson &
Johnson, ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin@), an anti-CD20 antibody developed by
IDEC/Schering AG, gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg@), an anti-CD33 (p67 protein)
antibody developed by Celltech/Wyeth, alefacept (Amevive@), an anti-LFA-3 Fc fusion
developed by Biogen), abciximab (ReoPro@), developed by Centocor/Lilly, basiliximab
(Simulect@), developed by Novartis, palivizumab (Synagis), developed by Medimmune,
infliximab (Remicade), an anti-TNFalpha antibody developed by Centocor, adalimumab
(Humira), an anti-TNFalpha antibody developed by Abbott, Humicade, an anti-TNFalpha
antibody developed by Celltech, golimumab (CNTO-148), a fully human TNF antibody
developed by Centocor, etanercept (Enbrel@), an p75 TNF receptor Fc fusion developed by
Immunex/Amgen, Ienercept, an p55TNF receptor Fc fusion previously developed by Roche,
ABX-CBL, an anti-CD 147 antibody being developed by Abgenix, ABX-IL8, an anti-IL8
antibody being developed by Abgenix, ABX-MA1, an anti-MUC18 antibody being developed
by Abgenix, Pemtumomab (R1549, 90Y-muHMFG1), an anti-MUCI in development by
Antisoma, Therex (R1550), an anti-MUCI antibody being developed by Antisoma, AngioMab
(AS 1405), being developed by Antisoma, HuBC-1, being developed by Antisoma, Thioplatin
                                                36

(AS 1407) being developed by Antisoma, Antegren@ (natalizumab), an anti-alpha-4-beta-1
(VLA-4) and alpha-4-beta-7 antibody being developed by Biogen, VLA-1 mAb, an anti-VLA
1 integrin antibody being developed by Biogen, LTBR mAb, an anti-lymphotoxin beta receptor
(LTBR) antibody being developed by Biogen, CAT-152, an anti-TGF-P antibody being
developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology, ABT 874 (J695), an anti-IL-12 p40 antibody
being developed by Abbott, CAT-192, an anti-TGFP 1 antibody being developed by Cambridge
Antibody Technology and Genzyme, CAT-213, an anti-Eotaxinl antibody being developed by
Cambridge Antibody Technology, LymphoStat-B@ an anti-Blys antibody being developed by
Cambridge Antibody Technology and Human Genome Sciences Inc., TRAIL-Ri mAb, an
anti-TRAIL-Ri antibody being developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology and Human
Genome Sciences, Inc., Avastin@ bevacizumab, rhuMAb-VEGF), an anti-VEGF antibody
being developed by Genentech, an anti-HER receptor family antibody being developed by
Genentech, Anti-Tissue Factor (ATF), an anti-Tissue Factor antibody being developed by
Genentech, Xolair@ (Omalizumab), an anti-IgE antibody being developed by Genentech,
Raptiva@ (Efalizumab), an anti-CD 11 a antibody being developed by Genentech and Xoma,
MLN-02 Antibody (formerly LDP-02), being developed by Genentech and Millenium
Pharmaceuticals, HuMax CD4, an anti-CD4 antibody being developed by Genmab, HuMax
IL15, an anti-IL15 antibody being developed by Genmab and Amgen, HuMax-Inflam, being
developed by Genmab and Medarex, HuMax-Cancer, an anti-Heparanase I antibody being
developed by Genmab and Medarex and Oxford GcoSciences, HuMax-Lymphoma, being
developed by Genmab and Amgen, HuMax-TAC, being developed by Genmab, IDEC- 131,
and anti-CD40L antibody being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals, IDEC-151
(Clenoliximab), an anti-CD4 antibody being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals, IDEC-1 14,
an anti-CD80 antibody being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals, IDEC-152, an anti-CD 23
being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals, anti-macrophage migration factor (MIF) antibodies
being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals, BEC2, an anti-idiotypic antibody being developed
by Imclone, IMC-IC 11, an anti-KDR antibody being developed by Imclone, DC101, an anti
fk-I antibody being developed by Imclone, anti-VE cadherin antibodies being developed by
Imclone, CEA-Cide@ (labetuzumab), an anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) antibody being
developed by Immunomedics, LymphoCide@ (Epratuzumab), an anti-CD22 antibody being
developed by Immunomedics, AFP-Cide, being developed by Immunomedics, MyelomaCide,
being developed by Immunomedics, LkoCide, being developed by Immunomedics,
ProstaCide, being developed by Immunomedics, MDX-0 10, an anti-CTLA4 antibody being
developed by Medarex, MDX-060, an anti-CD30 antibody being developed by Medarex,
                                              37

MDX-070 being developed by Medarex, MDX-0 18 being developed by Medarex, Osidem@
(IDM-1), and anti-Her2 antibody being developed by Medarex and Immuno-Designed
Molecules, HuMax@-CD4, an anti-CD4 antibody being developed by Medarex and Genmab,
HuMax-IL15, an anti-IL15 antibody being developed by Medarex and Genmab, CNTO 148, an
anti-TNFa antibody being developed by Medarex and Centocor/J&J, CNTO 1275, an anti
cytokine antibody being developed by Centocor/J&J, MORI01 and MORI02, anti-intercellular
adhesion molecule-I (ICAM-1) (CD54) antibodies being developed by MorphoSys, MOR201,
an anti-fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR-3) antibody being developed by MorphoSys,
Nuvion@ (visilizumab), an anti-CD3 antibody being developed by Protein Design Labs,
HuZAF@, an anti-gamma interferon antibody being developed by Protein Design Labs, Anti
a5PlI Integrin, being developed by Protein Design Labs, anti-IL-12, being developed by
Protein Design Labs, ING-1, an anti-Ep-CAM antibody being developed by Xoma, Xolair@
(Omalizumab) a humanized anti-IgE antibody developed by Genentech and Novartis, and
MLNO 1, an anti-Beta2 integrin antibody being developed by Xoma. In another embodiment,
the therapeutics include KRN330 (Kirin); huA33 antibody (A33, Ludwig Institute for Cancer
Research); CNTO 95 (alpha V integrins, Centocor); MEDI-522 (alpha Vp3integrin,
Medimmune); volociximab (alpha Vp1 integrin, Biogen/PDL); Human mAb 216 (B cell
glycosolated epitope, NCl); BiTE MT103 (bispecific CD19xCD3, Medimmune); 4G7xH22
(Bispecific BcellxFcgammaRi, Medarex/Merck KGa); rM28 (Bispecific CD28xMAPG, EP
Patent No. EP1444268); MDX447 (EMD 82633) (Bispecific CD64xEGFR, Medarex);
Catumaxomab (removab) (Bispecific EpCAMx anti-CD3, Trion/Fres); Ertumaxomab
(bispecific HER2/CD3, Fresenius Biotech); oregovomab (OvaRex) (CA-125, ViRexx);
Rencarex@ (WX G250) (carbonic anhydrase IX, Wilex); CNTO 888 (CCL2, Centocor);
TRC105 (CD105 (endoglin), Tracon); BMS-663513 (CD137 agonist, Brystol Myers Squibb);
MDX-1342 (CD19, Medarex); Siplizumab (MEDI-507) (CD2, Medimmune); Ofatumumab
(Humax-CD20) (CD20, Genmab); Rituximab (Rituxan) (CD20, Genentech); veltuzumab
(hA20) (CD20, Immunomedics); Epratuzumab (CD22, Amgen); lumiliximab (IDEC 152)
(CD23, Biogen); muromonab-CD3 (CD3, Ortho); HuM291 (CD3 fc receptor, PDL
Biopharma); HeFi-i, CD30, NCl); MDX-060 (CD30, Medarex); MDX-1401 (CD30,
Medarex); SGN-30 (CD30, Seattle Genentics); SGN-33 (Lintuzumab) (CD33, Seattle
Genentics); Zanolimumab (HuMax-CD4) (CD4, Genmab); HCD122 (CD40, Novartis); SGN
40 (CD40, Seattle Genentics); Campathlh (Alemtuzumab) (CD52, Genzyme); MDX-1411
(CD70, Medarex); hLLi (EPB-1) (CD74.38, Immunomedics); Galiximab (IDEC-144) (CD80,
Biogen); MT293 (TRC093/D93) (cleaved collagen, Tracon); HuLuc63 (CS1, PDL Pharma);
                                               38

ipilimumab (MDX-010) (CTLA4, Brystol Myers Squibb); Tremelimumab (Ticilimumab, CP
675,2) (CTLA4, Pfizer); HGS-ETR1 (Mapatumumab) (DR4TRAIL-R1 agonist, Human
Genome Science/Glaxo Smith Kline); AMG-655 (DR5, Amgen); Apomab (DR5, Genentech);
CS-1008 (DR5, Daiichi Sankyo); HGS-ETR2 (lexatumumab) (DR5TRAIL-R2 agonist, HGS);
Cetuximab (Erbitux) (EGFR, Imclone); IMC-1 1F8, (EGFR, Imclone); Nimotuzumab (EGFR,
YM Bio); Panitumumab (Vectabix) (EGFR, Amgen); Zalutumumab (HuMaxEGFr) (EGFR,
Genmab); CDX-1 10 (EGFRvIII, AVANT Immunotherapeutics); adecatumumab (MT201)
(Epcam, Merck); edrecolomab (Panorex, 17-lA) (Epcam, Glaxo/Centocor); MORAb-003
(folate receptor a, Morphotech); KW-2871 (ganglioside GD3, Kyowa); MORAb-009 (GP-9,
Morphotech); CDX-1307 (MDX-1307) (hCGb, Celldex); Trastuzumab (Herceptin) (HER2,
Celldex); Pertuzumab (rhuMAb 2C4) (HER2 (DI), Genentech); apolizumab (HLA-DR beta
chain, PDL Pharma); AMG-479 (IGF-1R, Amgen); anti-IGF-1R R1507 (IGF1-R, Roche); CP
751871 (IGF1-R, Pfizer); IMC-A12 (IGF1-R, Imclone); BlIB022 (IGF-1R, Biogen); Mik-beta
1 (IL-2Rb (CD122), Hoffman LaRoche); CNTO 328 (IL6, Centocor); Anti-KIR (1-7F9)
(Killer cell Ig-like Receptor (KIR), Novo); Hu3S193 (Lewis (y), Wyeth, Ludwig Institute of
Cancer Research); hCBE-1 1 (LTPR, Biogen); HuHMFG1 (MUC1, Antisoma/NCI); RAV12
(N-linked carbohydrate epitope, Raven); CAL (parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTH-rP),
University of California); CT-0I1 (PD1, CureTech); MDX- 1106 (ono-4538) (PD1,
Medarex/Ono); MAb CT-0I1 (PD 1, Curetech); IMC-3G3 (PDGFRa, Imclone); bavituximab
(phosphatidylserine, Peregrine); huJ591 (PSMA, Cornell Research Foundation); muJ591
(PSMA, Cornell Research Foundation); GC1008 (TGFb (pan) inhibitor (IgG4), Genzyme);
Infliximab (Remicade) (TNFa, Centocor); A27.15 (transferrin receptor, Salk Institute,
INSERN WO 2005/111082); E2.3 (transferrin receptor, Salk Institute); Bevacizumab (Avastin)
(VEGF, Genentech); HuMV833 (VEGF, Tsukuba Research Lab, PCT Publication No.
WO/2000/034337, University of Texas); IMC-18F1 (VEGFR1, Imclone); IMC-1 121
(VEGFR2, Imclone).
[00115]      In certain embodiments, the polypeptides provided herein comprise one modified
amino acid at a site-specific position. In certain embodiments, the polypeptides provided
herein comprise two modified amino acids at site-specific positions. In certain embodiments,
the polypeptides provided herein comprise three modified amino acids at site-specific
positions. In certain embodiments, the polypeptides provided herein comprise more than three
modified amino acids at site-specific positions.
                 Antibodies
                                                 39

[00116]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
polypeptides that comprise one or more modified amino acids as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the antibody is a heterotetramer comprising two identical light (L) chains and
two identical heavy (H) chains. Each light chain can be linked to a heavy chain by one covalent
disulfide bond. Each heavy chain can be linked to the other heavy chain by one or more
covalent disulfide bonds. Each heavy chain and each light chain can also have one or more
intrachain disulfide bonds. As is known to those of skill in the art, each heavy chain typically
comprises a variable domain (VH) followed by a number of constant domains. Each light chain
typically comprises a variable domain at one end (VL) and a constant domain. As is known to
those of skill in the art, antibodies typically have selective affinity for their target molecules,
i.e. antigens.
[00117]      The antibodies provided herein can have any polypeptide form known to those of
skill in the art. They can be full-length, or fragments. Exemplary full length antibodies
include IgA, IgAl, IgA2, IgD, IgE, IgG, IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgM, etc. Exemplary
fragments include Fv, Fab, Fc, sFv, etc.
[00118]      The one or more modified amino acids can be located at selected site-specific
positions in at least one polypeptide chain of an antibody. The polypeptide chain can be any
polypeptide chain of the antibody without limitation, including either light chain or either
heavy chain. The site-specific position can be in any domain of the antibody, including any
variable domain and any constant domain.
[00119]      The site-specific positions for substituting can be described with any polypeptide
nomenclature system known to those of skill in the art. In an embodiment wherein the
polypeptide is an antibody, the numbering system can be the Kabat numbering system, wherein
the site-specific positions are at heavy chain residues H005, H023, H042, H065, H074, H084,
H118, H119, H132, H134, H135, H136, H137, H138, H139, H155, H160, H162, H165, H172,
H174, H176, H177, H191, H194, H219, H238, H239, H241, H243, H246, H262, H264, H265,
H267, H268, H269, H270, H271, H272, H274, H275, H278, H280, H281, H282, H283, H286,
H289, H292, H293, H294, H295, H296, H297, H298, H299, H300, H301, H303, H305, H317,
H320, H324, H326, H327, H329, H330, H332, H333, H334, H335, H337, H339, H340, H344,
H355, H356, H358, H359, H360, H375, H383, H384, H386, H389, H392, H398, H420, H421,
H436, and H438. Specifically, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Kabat residues H005, H023,
H042, H065, H074, H084, H118, H119, H132, H134, H135, H136, H137, H138, H139, H155,
                                                  40

H160, H162, H165, H172, H174, H176, H177, H191, H194, H219, H238, H239, H241, H243,
H246, H262, H264, H265, H267, H268, H269, H270, H271, H272, H274, H275, H278, H280,
H281, H282, H283, H286, H289, H292, H293, H294, H295, H296, H297, H298, H299,H300,
H301, H303, H305, H317, H320, H324, H326, H327, H329, H330, H332, H333, H334, H335,
H337, H339, H340, H344, H355, H356, H358, H359, H360, H375, H383, H384, H386, H389,
H392, H398, H420, H421, H436, and H438.
[00120]   In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Kabat residues H005, H023,
H074, H084, H118, H119, H132, H134, H135, H136, H137, H139, H160, H162, H165, H172,
H191, H194, H239, H241, H246, H267, H268, H269, H270, H271, H272, H274, H275, H280,
H281, H282, H283, H286, H289, H292, H293, H294, H295, H296, H297, H298, H299,H300,
H301, H303, H305, H317, H320, H324, H326, H327, H329, H330, H332, H333, H334,
H335, H337, H339, H340, H344, H355, H359, H375, H386, H389, H392, H398, H420, H421,
and H438.
[00121]   In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Kabat residues H005, H084,
H118, H132, H136, H239, H293, H334, H355, H359, and H389.
[00122]   In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Kabat residues H023, H074,
H119, H134, H135, H137, H139, H160, H162, H165, H172, H191, H194, H241, H246, H267,
H268, H269, H270, H271, H272, H274, H275, H280, H281, H282, H283, H286, H289, H292,
H294, H295, H296, H297, H298, H299, H300, H301, H303, H305, H317, H320, H324, H326,
H327, H329, H330, H332, H333, H335, H337, H339, H344, H355, H375, H386, H392, H398,
H420, H421, H340 and H438.
[00123]   In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Kabat residues H042, H065,
H138, H155, H174, H176, H177, H219, H238, H243, H262, H264, H265, H278, H356, H358,
H360, H383, H384 and H436.
[00124]   In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Kabat residues corresponding to
H292-H301, H303, and H305.
                                             41

[00125]     In the Chothia antibody numbering system, these positions are at heavy chain
residues H005, H023, H042, H065, H074, H084, H118, H119, H132, H134, H135, H136,
H137, H138, H139, H155, H160, H162, H165, H172, H174, H176, H177, H191, H194, H219,
H238, H239, H241, H243, H246, H262, H264, H265, H267, H268, H269, H270, H271, H272,
H274, H275, H278, H280, H281, H282, H283, H286, H289, H292, H293, H294, H295, H296,
H297, H298, H299,H300, H301, H303, H305, H317, H320, H324, H326, H327, H329, H330,
H332, H333, H334, H335, H337, H339, H340, H344, H355, H356, H358, H359, H360, H375,
H383, H384, H386, H389, H392, H398, H420, H421, H436, and H438. Specifically, provided
herein are antibodies comprising one or more modified amino acids at one or more positions
selected from Chothia residues H005, H023, H042, H065, H074, H084, H 118, H 119, H132,
H134, H135, H136, H137, H138, H139, H155, H160, H162, H165, H172, H174, H176, H177,
H191, H194, H219, H238, H239, H241, H243, H246, H262, H264, H265, H267, H268, H269,
H270, H271, H272, H274, H275, H278, H280, H281, H282, H283, H286, H289, H292, H293,
H294, H295, H296, H297, H298, H299,H300, H301, H303, H305, H317, H320, H324, H326,
H327, H329, H330, H332, H333, H334, H335, H337, H339, H340, H344, H355, H356, H358,
H359, H360, H375, H383, H384, H386, H389, H392, H398, H420, H421, H436, and H438.
[00126]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Chothia residues H005, H023,
H074, H084, H118, H119, H132, H134, H135, H136, H137, H139, H160, H162, H165, H172,
H191, H194, H239, H241, H246, H267, H268, H269, H270, H271, H272, H274, H275, H280,
H281, H282, H283, H286, H289, H292, H293, H294, H295, H296, H297, H298, H299, H300,
H301, H303, H305, H317, H320, H324, H326, H327, H329, H330, H332, H333, H334,
H335, H337, H339, H340, H344, H355, H359, H375, H386, H389, H392, H398, H420, H421,
and H438.
[00127]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Chothia residues H005, H084,
H118, H132, H136, H239, H293, H334, H355, H359, and H389.
[00128]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Chothia residues corresponding to
H292-H301, H303, and H305.
[00129]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Chothia residues H023, H074,
H119, H134, H135, H137, H139, H160, H162, H165, H172, H191, H194, H241, H246, H267,
                                              42

H268, H269, H270, H271, H272, H274, H275, H280, H281, H282, H283, H286, H289, H292,
H294, H295, H296, H297, H298, H299, H300, H301, H303, H305, H317, H320, H324, H326,
H327, H329, H330, H332, H333, H335, H337, H339, H344, H355, H375, H386, H392, H398,
H420, H421, H340 and H438.
[00130]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from Chothia residues H042, H065,
H138, H155, H174, H176, H177, H219, H238, H243, H262, H264, H265, H278, H356, H358,
H360, H383, H384 and H436.
[00131]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from residues L22, L7 and
L152, according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme.
[00132]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from residues L043, L049,
L056, L057, L060, L067, L068, L109, L112, L114, L144, L153, L156, L157, L168, L184,
L202, L203, and L206, according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme. In certain
embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more modified amino acids at
at least one or more positions selected from residues L043, L049, L056, L057, L060, L067,
L068,L109,L112,L114,L144,L153,L156, L168, L184, L202, and L203, according to the
Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme. In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies
comprising two or more modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from
residues L043, L049, L056, L057, L060, L067, L068, L109, L144, L153, L156, L184, L202,
and L203, according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme. In certain embodiments,
provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more modified amino acids at at least one or
more positions selected from residues L049, L056, L057, L060, L067, L109, L153, L202, and
L203, according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme.
[00133]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from residues (-)LOO 1, L003,
L005, L007, L008, L009, LO1,      L016, L017, L018, L020, L022, L026, L027, L045, L058,
L063, L065, L066, L070, L077, L079, L107, L138, L142, L143, L152, L171, L182, L188,
L199, and L201, according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme. In certain
embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more modified amino acids at
at least one or more positions selected from residues minus 1, L003, L005, L007, L008, L009,
LO10, L016, L017, L018, L020, L022, L026, L027, L045, L058, L063, L065, L066, L070,
                                               43

L077, L079, L107, L142, L143, L152, L171, L182, L188, L199, and L201, according to the
Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme. In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies
comprising two or more modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from
residues (-)LOO1, L003, L005, L007, L008, L009, L016, L017, L018, L020, L022, L026, L027,
L045, L058, L063, L065, L066, L070, L077, L079, L107, L142, L152, L171, L182, L188, and
L199, according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme. In certain embodiments,
provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more modified amino acids at at least one or
more positions selected from residues minus 1, L005, L007, L008, L016, L017, L018, L020,
L022, L027, L045, L058, L063, L077, L079, L107, L142, L152, L182, L188, and L199,
according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme. In certain embodiments, provided
herein are antibodies comprising two or more modified amino acids at at least one or more
positions selected from residues (-)LOO1, L016, L063, and L199, according to the Kabat or
Chothia numbering scheme.
[00134]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from residues (-)L00 1, L007,
L008, L016, L022, L063, L014, L070, L138, L142, L143 and L152, according to the Kabat or
Chothia numbering scheme.
[00135]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from residues (-)L00 1, L007,
L008, L016, L022, L063, L070, L138, L142, L143, L152 and L201, according to the Kabat or
Chothia numbering scheme.
[00136]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 22,
7 and 152 of the representative light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00137]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to
minus 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 26, 27, 45, 58, 63, 65, 66, 70, 77, 79, 107, 138,
142, 143, 152, 171, 182, 188, 199, and 201 of the representative light chain polypeptide
according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00138]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to
minus 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 26, 27, 45, 58, 63, 65, 66, 70, 77, 79, 107, 142, 143,
                                                  44

152, 171, 182, 188, 199, and 201 of the representative light chain polypeptide according to
SEQ ID NO:2.
[00139]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to
minus 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 26, 27, 45, 58, 63, 65, 66, 70, 77, 79, 107, 142, 152,
171, 182, 188, and 199 of the representative light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID
NO:2.
[00140]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to
minus 1, 5, 7, 8, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 27, 45, 58, 63, 77, 79, 107, 142, 152, 182, 188, and 199 of
the representative light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00141]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to
minus 1, 16, 63, and 199 of the representative light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID
NO:2.
[00142]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to
minus 1, 7, 8, 16, 22, 63, 14, 70, 138, 142, 143 and 152 of the representative light chain
polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00143]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to
minus 1, 7, 8, 16, 22, 63, 70, 138, 142, 143, 152, and 201of the representative light chain
polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00144]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 43,
49, 56, 57, 60, 67, 68, 109, 112, 114, 144, 153, 156, 157, 168, 184, 202, 203, and206 ofthe
representative light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00145]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 43,
49, 56, 57, 60, 67, 68, 109, 112, 144, 153, 156, 168, 184, 202, and 203 of the representative
light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
                                                  45

[00146]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 43,
49, 56, 57, 60, 67, 68, 109, 144, 153, 156, 184, 202, and 203 of the representative light chain
polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00147]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 49,
56, 57, 60, 67, 109, 153, 202, and 203 of the representative light chain polypeptide according
to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00148]     In other words, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more modified
amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 407, 124,
183, 139, 25, 40, 119, 193, 225, 19, 52, 71, 117 or 224 of the representative heavy chain
polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO: 1 and at at least one or more positions selected from
those corresponding to 22, 7 and 152 of the representative light chain polypeptide according to
SEQ ID NO:2.
[00149]     The site-specific positions can also be identified relative to the amino acid
sequences of the polypeptide chains of a reference antibody. For example, the amino acid
sequence of a reference heavy chain is provided at SEQ ID NO: 1. In the reference heavy
chain, the site-specific positions are at residues 5, 23, 42, 66, 75, 88, 121, 122, 135, 137, 138,
139, 140, 141, 142, 158, 163, 165, 168, 175, 177, 179, 180, 194, 197, 222, 241, 242, 244, 246,
249,265,267,268,270,271,272,273,274,275,277,278,281,283,284,285,286,289,292,
295,296,297,298,299,300,301,302,303,304,306,308,320,323,327,329,330,332,333,
335,336,337,338,340,342,343,347,358,359,361,362,363,378,386,387,389,392,395,
401, 423, 424, 439 and 441. Specifically, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or
more modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 5,
23,42,66,75,88,121,122,135,137,138,139,140,141,142,158,163,165,168,175,177,
179, 180, 194, 197, 222, 241, 242, 244, 246, 249, 265, 267, 268, 270, 271, 272, 273, 274, 275,
277,278,281,283,284,285,286,289,292,295,296,297,298,299,300,301,302,303,304,
306,308,320,323,327,329,330,332,333,335,336,337,338,340,342,343,347,358,359,
361, 362, 363, 378, 386, 387, 389, 392, 395, 401, 423, 424, 439 and 441 of the representative
heavy chain antibody according to SEQ ID NO: 1.
[00150]     In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 5, 23, 75,
88,121,122,135,137,138,139,140,142,163,165,168,175,194,197,242,244,249,270,
                                                  46

271, 272, 273, 274, 275, 277, 278, 283, 284, 285, 286, 289, 292, 295, 296, 297, 298, 299, 300,
301, 302, 303, 304, 306, 308, 320, 323, 327, 329, 330, 332, 333, 335, 336, 337, 338, 340, 342,
343, 347, 358, 362, 378, 389, 392, 395, 401, 423, 424, and 441 of the representative heavy
chain antibody according to SEQ ID NO: 1.
[00151]    In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 5, 88, 121,
135, 139, 242, 296, 337, 358, 362, and 392 of the representative heavy chain antibody
according to SEQ ID NO:1.
[00152]    In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 23, 75,
122,137,138,140,142,163,165,168,175,194,197,244,249,270,271,272,273,274,275,
277, 278, 283, 284, 285, 286, 289, 292, 295, 297, 298, 299, 300, 301, 302, 303, 304, 306, 308,
320, 323, 327, 329, 330, 332, 333, 335, 336, 338, 340, 342, 343, 347, 358, 378, 389, 395, 401,
423, 424, and 441 of the representative heavy chain antibody according to SEQ ID NO: 1.
[00153]    In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 42, 66,
141, 158, 177, 179, 180, 222, 241, 246, 265, 267, 268, 281, 359, 361, 363, 386, 387 and 439 of
the representative heavy chain antibody according to SEQ ID NO: 1.
[00154]    In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from those corresponding to 292-301,
303, and 305 of the representative heavy chain antibody according to SEQ ID NO: 1.
[00155]    In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from heavy chain or light chain
residues H404, H121, H180, H241, L22, L7, L152, H136, H25, H40, H119, H190,H222,
H19, H52, or H70 according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme.
[00156]    In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from heavy chain or light chain
residues H404, H121, H180, H241, L22, L7, L152, H136, H25, H40, H119, H190,andH222
according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme.
[00157]    In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising one or more
modified amino acids at one or more positions selected from heavy chain or light chain
                                              47

residues H404, H121, H180, H241, L22, L7, L152, and H136 according to the Kabat or
Chothia numbering scheme.
[00158]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising a polypeptide
chain having at least 70%, 80% or 90% homology to SEQ ID NO:1 and having one or more
modified amino acids at sites selected from sites corresponding to residues 404, 121, 180, 241,
136, 25, 40, 119, 190, 222, 19, 52, or 70 of the representative heavy chain polypeptide
according to SEQ ID NO:1.
[00159]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising a polypeptide
chain having at least 70%, 80% or 90% homology to SEQ ID NO:2 and having one or more
modified amino acids at sites selected from sites corresponding to residues 22, 7 and 152 of the
representative light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO:2.
[00160]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
site-specific modified amino acids. In certain embodiments, each modified amino acid is
independently at a specific site selected from the group consisting of optimally substitutable
positions of any polypeptide chain of the antibody.
[00161]      In certain embodiments, the antibodies comprise two or more site-specific modified
amino acids in a single light chain polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the antibodies
comprise two or more site-specific modified amino acids in a single heavy chain polypeptide.
In certain embodiments, the antibodies comprise at least one site-specific modified amino acid
in a light chain polypeptide and at least one site-specific modified amino acid in a heavy chain
polypeptide.
[00162]      In certain embodiments, the antibodies comprise at least one site-specific modified
amino acid in a light chain polypeptide and at least one site-specific modified amino acid in
each of two heavy chain polypeptides. In certain embodiments, the antibodies comprise at
least one site-specific modified amino acid in each of two light chain polypeptides and at least
one site-specific modified amino acid in a heavy chain polypeptide. In certain embodiments,
the antibodies comprise at least one site-specific modified amino acid in each of two light
chain polypeptides and at least one site-specific modified amino acid in each of two heavy
chain polypeptides.
[00163]      In certain embodiments, the antibodies comprise three or more, four or more, five
or more or six or more site-specific modified amino acids. In certain embodiments, the
antibodies comprise two to six modified amino acids.
                                                 48

[00164]      The site-specific positions for substituting can be described with any antibody
nomenclature system known to those of skill in the art. In the Kabat numbering system, these
positions are at heavy chain or light chain residues H404, H121, H180, L22, L7, L152, H136,
H25, H40, H119, H190, H222, H19, H52, H70, H110, and H221. In other words, provided
herein are antibodies comprising two or more modified amino acids at at least one or more
positions selected from Kabat residues H404, H121, H180, L22, L7, L152, H136, H25, H40,
H119, H190, H222, H19, H52, H70, HI10, and H221.
[00165]      In some embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from Kabat residues H404,
H121, H180, H136, H25, H40, H119, H190, H222, H19, H52, H70, H110, and H221.
[00166]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
modified amino acids at at least one or more positions selected from residues L22, L7 and
L152, according to the Kabat or Chothia numbering scheme.
[00167]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
site-specific modified amino acids at sequence positions corresponding to residues selected
from heavy chain or light chain residues H404, H121, H180, L22, L7, L152, H136, H25, H40,
H 119, H190, H222, H19, H52, H70, Hi 10, or H221 according to the Kabat or Chothia
numbering scheme.
[00168]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
site-specific modified amino acids at sequence positions corresponding to residues selected
from residues 407, 124, 183, 139, 25, 40, 119, 193, 225, 19, 52, 71, 117 or 224 of the
representative heavy chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID NO: 1.
[00169]      In certain embodiments, provided herein are antibodies comprising two or more
site-specific modified amino acids at sequence positions corresponding to residues selected
from residues 22, 7 or 152 of the representative light chain polypeptide according to SEQ ID
NO:2.
[00170]      The antibody can have any antibody form recognized by those of skill in the art.
The antibody can comprise a single polypeptide chain - a single heavy chain or a single light
chain. The antibody can also form multimers that will be recognized by those of skill in the art
including homodimers, heterodimers, homomultimers, and heteromultimers. These multimers
can be linked or unlinked. Useful linkages include interchain disulfide bonds typical for
polypeptide molecules. The multimers can also be linked by other amino acids, including the
                                                  49

modified amino acids described herein. The antibody can be an immunoglobulin such as of
any class or subclass including IgA, IgAl, IgA2, IgD, IgE, IgG, IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4 and
IgM. The antibody can be of the form of any antibody fragment including Fv, Fc, Fab, and
(Fab') 2 and scFv.
[00171]      A parent antibody can have affinity to any antigen known to those of skill in the art,
or later discovered. Virtually any substance may be an antigen for a parent antibody, or an
antibody of the present description. Examples of useful antigens include, but are not limited to,
Alpha-i antitrypsin, Angiostatin, Antihemolytic factor, polypeptides, Apolipoprotein,
Apoprotein, Atrial natriuretic factor, Atrial natriuretic polypeptide, Atrial peptides, C-X-C
chemokines (e.g., T39765, NAP-2, ENA-78, Gro-a, Gro-b, Gro-c, IP-10, GCP-2, NAP-4, SDF
1, PF4, MIG), calcitonin, CC chemokines (e.g., monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, monocyte
chemoattractant protein-2, monocyte chemoattractant protein-3, monocyte inflammatory
protein-I alpha, monocyte inflammatory protein-I beta, RANTES, 1309, R83915, R91733,
HCCI, T58847, D31065, T64262), CD40 ligand, C-kit ligand, collagen, colony stimulating
factor (CSF), complement factor 5a, complement inhibitor, complement receptor 1, cytokines,
(e.g., epithelial neutrophil activating peptide-78, GRO/MGSA, GRO, GRO, MIP-1, MIP-1,
MCP-i), epidermal growth factor (EGF), erythropoietin ("EPO"), exfoliating toxins A and B,
factor IX, factor VII, factor VIII, factor X, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), fibrinogen,
fibronectin, G-CSF, GM-CSF, glucocerebrosidase, gonadotropin, growth factors, hedgehog
proteins (e.g., Sonic, Indian, Desert), hemoglobin, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), hirudin,
human serum albumin, insulin, insulin-like growth factor (IGF), interferons (e.g., IFN-a, IFN-,
IFN-y), interleukins (e.g., IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL- 11, IL
12, etc.), keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), lactoferrin, leukemia inhibitory factor, luciferase,
neurturin, neutrophil inhibitory factor (NIF), oncostatin M, osteogenic protein, parathyroid
hormone, PD-ECSF, PDGF, peptide hormones (e.g., human growth hormone), pleiotropin,
protein A, protein G, pyrogenic exotoxins A, B, and C, relaxin, renin, SCF, soluble
complement receptor I, soluble I-CAM 1, soluble interleukin receptors (IL-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15), soluble TNF receptor, somatomedin, somatostatin, somatotropin,
streptokinase, superantigens, i.e., staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEA, SEB, SECI, SEC2, SEC3,
SED, SEE), superoxide dismutase, toxic shock syndrome toxin (TSST-1), thymosin alpha 1,
tissue plasminogen activator, tumor necrosis factor (TNF beta), tumor necrosis factor receptor
(TNFR), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
urokinase and others. These antigens can be obtained by methods known to those of skill in
                                                  50

the art, for example, from commercial sources or from published polypeptide or polynucleotide
sequences (e.g. Genbank).
[00172]      Additional antigens include, but are not limited to, transcriptional and expression
activators. Exemplary transcriptional and expression activators include genes and proteins that
modulate cell growth, differentiation, regulation, or the like. Expression and transcriptional
activators are found in prokaryotes, viruses, and eukaryotes, including fungi, plants, and
animals, including mammals, providing a wide range of therapeutic targets. It will be
appreciated that expression and transcriptional activators regulate transcription by many
mechanisms, e.g., by binding to receptors, stimulating a signal transduction cascade, regulating
expression of transcription factors, binding to promoters and enhancers, binding to proteins
that bind to promoters and enhancers, unwinding DNA, splicing pre-mRNA, polyadenylating
RNA, and degrading RNA. Antigens include, but are not limited to, expression activators such
as cytokines, inflammatory molecules, growth factors, their receptors, and oncogene products,
e.g., interleukins (e.g., IL-I, IL-2, IL-8, etc.), interferons, FGF, IGF-I, IGF-II, FGF, PDGF,
TNF, TGF-a, TGF-p, EGF, KGF, SCF/c-Kit, CD40L/CD40, VLA-4VCAM-1, ICAM-1/LFA
1, and hyalurin/CD44; signal transduction molecules and corresponding oncogene products,
e.g., Mos, Ras, Raf, and Met; and transcriptional activators and suppressors, e.g., p53, Tat, Fos,
Myc, Jun, Myb, Rel, and steroid hormone receptors such as those for estrogen, progesterone,
testosterone, aldosterone, the LDL receptor ligand and corticosterone.
[00173]      Vaccine proteins may be antigens including, but not limited to, proteins from
infectious fungi, e.g., Aspergillus, Candida species; bacteria, particularly E. coli, which serves
a model for pathogenic bacteria, as well as medically important bacteria such as Staphylococci
(e.g., aureus), or Streptococci (e.g., pneumoniae); protozoa such as sporozoa (e.g., Plasmodia),
rhizopods (e.g., Entamoeba) and flagellates (Trypanosoma, Leishmania, Trichomonas,
Giardia,etc.); viruses such as (+) RNA viruses (examples include Poxviruses e.g., vaccinia;
Picomaviruses, e.g. polio; Togaviruses, e.g., rubella; Flaviviruses, e.g., HCV; and
Coronaviruses), (-) RNA viruses (e.g., Rhabdoviruses, e.g., VSV; Paramyxovimses, e.g., RSV;
Orthomyxovimses, e.g., influenza; Bunyaviruses; and Arenaviruses), dsDNA viruses
(Reoviruses, for example), RNA to DNA viruses, i.e., Retroviruses, e.g., HIV and HTLV, and
certain DNA to RNA viruses such as Hepatitis B.
[00174]      Antigens may be enzymes including, but not limited to, amidases, amino acid
racemases, acylases, dehalogenases, dioxygenases, diarylpropane peroxidases, epimerases,
epoxide hydrolases, esterases, isomerases, kinases, glucose isomerases, glycosidases, glycosyl
                                                    51

transferases, haloperoxidases, monooxygenases (e.g., p450s), lipases, lignin peroxidases, nitrile
hydratases, nitrilases, proteases, phosphatases, subtilisins, transaminase, and nucleases.
[00175]     Agriculturally related proteins such as insect resistance proteins (e.g., the Cry
proteins), starch and lipid production enzymes, plant and insect toxins, toxin-resistance
proteins, Mycotoxin detoxification proteins, plant growth enzymes (e.g., Ribulose 1,5
Bisphosphate Carboxylase/Oxygenase, "RUBISCO"), lipoxygenase (LOX), and
Phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) carboxylase may also be antigens.
[00176]     For example, the antigen may be a disease-associated molecule, such as tumor
surface antigen such as B-cell idiotypes, CD20 on malignant B cells, CD33 on leukemic blasts,
and HER2/neu on breast cancer. Alternatively, the antigen may be a growth factor receptor.
Examples of the growth factors include, but are not limited to, epidermal growth factors
(EGFs), transferrin, insulin-like growth factor, transforming growth factors (TGFs),
interleukin-1, and interleukin-2. For example, a high expression of EGF receptors has been
found in a wide variety of human epithelial primary tumors. TGF-a has been found to mediate
an autocrine stimulation pathway in cancer cells. Several murine monoclonal antibodies have
been demonstrated to be able to bind EGF receptors, block the binding of ligand to EGF
receptors, and inhibit proliferation of a variety of human cancer cell lines in culture and in
xenograft models. Mendelsohn and Baselga (1995) Antibodies to growth factors and receptors,
in Biologic Therapy of Cancer, 2nd Ed., J B Lippincott, Philadelphia, pp 607-623. Thus,
antibodies may be used to treat a variety of cancers.
[00177]     The antigen may also be cell surface protein or receptor associated with coronary
artery disease such as platelet glycoprotein Ilb/Ila receptor, autoimmune diseases such as
CD4, CAMPATH-1 and lipid A region of the gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide.
Humanized antibodies against CD4 have been tested in clinical trials in the treatment of
patients with mycosis fungoides, generalized postular psoriasis, severe psoriasis, and
rheumatoid arthritis. Antibodies against lipid A region of the gram-negative bacterial
lipopolysaccharide have been tested clinically in the treatment of septic shock. Antibodies
against CAMPATH- 1 have also been tested clinically in the treatment of against refractory
rheumatoid arthritis. Thus, antibodies provided herein may be used to treat a variety of
autoimmune diseases.
[00178]     Useful antigens also include proteins or peptides associated with human allergic
diseases, such as inflammatory mediator proteins, e.g. interleukin-1 (IL-1), tumor necrosis
factor (TNF), leukotriene receptor and 5-lipoxygenase, and adhesion molecules such as V
                                                  52

CAM/VLA-4. In addition, IgE may also serve as the antigen because IgE plays pivotal role in
type I immediate hypersensitive allergic reactions such as asthma. Studies have shown that the
level of total serum IgE tends to correlate with severity of diseases, especially in asthma.
Burrows et al. (1989) "Association of asthma with serum IgE levels and skin-test reactivity to
allergens" New Engl. L. Med. 320:271-277. Thus, antibodies selected against IgE may be used
to reduce the level of IgE or block the binding of IgE to mast cells and basophils in the
treatment of allergic diseases without having substantial impact on normal immune functions.
[00179]      The antigen may also be a viral surface or core protein which may serve as an
antigen to trigger immune response of the host. Examples of these viral proteins include, but
are not limited to, glycoproteins (or surface antigens, e.g., GP120 and GP41) and capsid
proteins (or structural proteins, e.g., P24 protein); surface antigens or core proteins of hepatitis
A, B, C, D or E virus (e.g. small hepatitis B surface antigen (SHBsAg) of hepatitis B virus and
the core proteins of hepatitis C virus, NS3, NS4 and NS5 antigens); glycoprotein (G-protein) or
the fusion protein (F-protein) of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV); surface and core proteins of
herpes simplex virus HSV- 1 and HSV-2 (e.g., glycoprotein D from HSV-2).
[00180]      The antigen may also be a mutated tumor suppressor gene product that has lost its
tumor-suppressing function and may render the cells more susceptible to cancer. Tumor
suppressor genes are genes that function to inhibit the cell growth and division cycles, thus
preventing the development of neoplasia. Mutations in tumor suppressor genes cause the cell to
ignore one or more of the components of the network of inhibitory signals, overcoming the cell
cycle check points and resulting in a higher rate of controlled cell growth-cancer. Examples of
the tumor suppressor genes include, but are not limited to, DPC-4, NF-1, NF-2, RB, p53, WT1,
BRCA1 and BRCA2. DPC-4 is involved in pancreatic cancer and participates in a cytoplasmic
pathway that inhibits cell division. NF-1 codes for a protein that inhibits Ras, a cytoplasmic
inhibitory protein. NF-1 is involved in neurofibroma and pheochromocytomas of the nervous
system and myeloid leukemia. NF-2 encodes a nuclear protein that is involved in meningioma,
schwanoma, and ependymoma of the nervous system. RB codes for the pRB protein, a nuclear
protein that is a major inhibitor of cell cycle. RB is involved in retinoblastoma as well as bone,
bladder, small cell lung and breast cancer. p53 codes for p53 protein that regulates cell division
and can induce apoptosis. Mutation and/or inaction of p53 is found in a wide ranges of cancers.
WT1 is involved in Wilms tumor of the kidneys. BRCA1 is involved in breast and ovarian
cancer, and BRCA2 is involved in breast cancer. Thus, antibodies may be used to block the
                                                  53

interactions of the gene product with other proteins or biochemicals in the pathways of tumor
onset and development.
[00181]     The antigen may be a CD molecule including but not limited to, CD1a, CD1b,
CDlc, CDid, CD2, CD3y, CD36, CD3, CD4, CD5, CD6, CD7, CD8a, CD8p, CD9, CD1O,
CD11a, CD11b, CD11c, CDwl2, CD13, CD14, CD15, CD15s, CD16a, CD16b, CD18, CD19,
CD20, CD21, CD22, CD23, CD24, CD25, CD26, CD27, CD28, CD29, CD30, CD31, CD32,
CD33, CD34, CD35, CD36, CD37, CD38, CD39, CD40, CD41, CD42a, CD42b, CD42c,
CD42d, CD43, CD44, CD45, CD45R, CD46, CD47, CD48, CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49d,
CD49e, CD49f, CD50, CD51, CD52, CD53, CD54, CD55, CD56, CD57, CD58, CD59,
CDw60, CD61, CD62E, CD62L, CD62P, CD63, CD64, CD65, CD66a, CD66b, CD66c,
CD66d, CD66e, CD66f, CD67, CD68, CD69, CDw70, CD71, CD72, CD73, CD74, CDw75,
CDw76, CD77, CD79a, CD79P, CD80, CD81, CD82, CD83, CD84, CD85, CD86, CD87,
CD88, CD89, CD90, CD91, CDw92, CD93, CD94, CD95, CD96, CD97, CD98, CD99,
CD100, CD101, CD102, CD103, CD104, CD105, CD106, CD107a, CD107b, CDwl08,
CDw109, CD110-113, CD114, CD115, CD116, CD117, CD118, CD119, CD120a, CD120b,
CD121a, CD121b, CD122, CD123, CDwl24, CD125, CD126, CDwl27, CDwl28a,
CDwl28b, CD129, CDwl30, CD131, CD132, CD133, CD134, CD135, CD136, CDwl37,
CD138, CD139, CD140a, CD140b, CD141, CD142, CD143, CD144, CDwl45, CD146,
CD147, CD148, CDwl49, CD150, CD151, CD152, CD153, CD154, CD155, CD156, CD157,
CD158a, CD158b, CD161, CD162, CD163, CD164, CD165, CD166, and TCR. The antigen
may be VEGF, VEGF receptor, EGFR, Her2, TNFa, TNFRI receptor, GPIIb/IIIa, IL-2R alpha
chain, IL-2R beta chain, RSV F protein, alpha4 integrin, IgE, IgE receptor, digoxin, carpet
viper venom, complement C5, OPGL, CA-125 tumor antigen, Staphylococci proteins,
Staphylococcus epidermidis proteins, Staphylococcus aureus proteins, proteins involved
Staphylococcal infection (including but not limited to, Staphylococcus aureus and
Staphylococcus epidermidis), IL-6 receptor, CTLA-4, RSV, Tac subunit of IL-2 receptor, IL-5,
and EpCam. The antigen may be a fragment of a molecule.
[00182]     Examples of useful bispecific parent antibodies include, but are not limited to, those
with one antibody directed against a tumor cell antigen and the other antibody directed against
a cytotoxic trigger molecule such as anti-FcyRI/anti-CD 15, anti-p185HER2 /FcyRIII (CD16),
anti-CD3/anti-malignant B-cell (1D10), anti-CD3/anti-p185 HER2, anti-CD3/anti-p97, anti
CD3/anti-renal cell carcinoma, anti-CD3/anti-OVCAR-3, anti-CD3/L-D 1 (anti-colon
carcinoma), anti-CD3/anti-melanocyte stimulating hormone analog, anti-EGF receptor/anti
                                               54

CD3, anti-CD3/anti-CAMA1, anti-CD3/anti-CD19, anti-CD3/MoV18, anti-neural cell
adhesion molecule (NCAM)/anti-CD3, anti-folate binding protein (FBP)/anti-CD3, anti-pan
carcinoma associated antigen (AMOC-3 1)/anti-CD3; bispecific antibodies with one antibody
which binds specifically to a tumor antigen and another antibody which binds to a toxin such
as anti-saporin/anti-Id-1, anti-CD22/anti-saporin, anti-CD7/anti-saporin, anti-CD38/anti
saporin, anti-CEA/anti-ricin A chain, anti-interferon-a (IFN-a)/anti-hybridoma idiotype, anti
CEA/anti-vinca alkaloid; bispecific antibodies for converting enzyme activated prodrugs such
as anti-CD30/anti-alkaline phosphatase (which catalyzes conversion of mitomycin phosphate
prodrug to mitomycin alcohol); bispecific antibodies which can be used as fibrinolytic agents
such as anti-fibrin/anti-tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), anti-fibrin/anti-urokinase-type
plasminogen activator (uPA); bispecific antibodies for targeting immune complexes to cell
surface receptors such as anti-low density lipoprotein (LDL)/anti-Fc receptor (e.g. FcyRI,
FeyRII or FcyRIII); bispecific antibodies for use in therapy of infectious diseases such as anti
CD3/anti-herpes simplex virus (HSV), anti-T-cell receptor:CD3 complex/anti-influenza, anti
FcyR/anti-HIV; bispecific antibodies for tumor detection in vitro or in vivo such as anti
CEA/anti-EOTUBE, anti-CEA/anti-DPTA, anti- anti-p 185HER 2/anti-hapten; bispecific
antibodies as vaccine adjuvants (see Fanger, M W et al., Crit Rev Immunol. 1992; 12(34):101
24, which is incorporated by reference herein); and bispecific antibodies as diagnostic tools
such as anti-rabbit IgG/anti-ferritin, anti-horse radish peroxidase (HRP)/anti-hormone, anti
somatostatin/anti-substance P, anti-HRP/anti-FITC, anti-CEA/anti-p-galactosidase (see Nolan,
0 et R. O'Kennedy, Biochim Biophys Acta. 1990 Aug. 1; 1040(1):1-11, which is incorporated
by reference herein). Examples of trispecific antibodies include anti-CD3/anti-CD4/anti-CD37,
anti-CD3/anti-CD5/anti-CD37 and anti-CD3/anti-CD8/anti-CD37.
            Linkers and Payloads
[00183]     In certain embodiments, the polypeptide comprises a modified amino acid having a
reactive group, as described herein. One of skill in the art can use the reactive group to link the
polypeptide to any molecular entity capable of forming a covalent bond to the modified amino
acid, directly or indirectly via a linker. Thus, provided herein are conjugates comprising a
polypeptide comprising an amino acid residue corresponding to a compound of formula I, Ia,
II, 1-30 or 40 linked to a payload and optionally comprising a linking moiety between the
polypeptide and the payload.
[00184]     Useful linkers include those described herein. In certain embodiments, the linker is
any divalent or multivalent linker known to those of skill in the art. Generally, the linker is
                                                  55

capable of forming covalent bonds to the functional moiety and the alpha carbon of the
modified amino acid. Useful divalent linkers include a bond, alkylene, substituted alkylene,
heteroalkylene, substituted heteroalkylene, arylene, substituted arylene, heteroarlyene and
substituted heteroarylene. In certain embodiments, the linker is C1.10 alkylene or C1.io
heteroalkylene.
[00185]       The molecular payload can be any molecular entity that one of skill in the art might
desire to conjugate to the polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the payload is a therapeutic
moiety. In such embodiment, the polypeptide conjugate can be used to target the therapeutic
moiety to its molecular target. In certain embodiments, the payload is a labeling moiety. In
such embodiments, the polypeptide conjugate can be used to detect binding of the polypeptide
to its target. In certain embodiments, the payload is a cytotoxic moiety. In such embodiments,
the conjugate can be used target the cytotoxic moiety to a diseased cell, for example a cancer
cell, to initiate destruction or elimination of the cell. Conjugates comprising other molecular
payloads apparent to those of skill in the art are within the scope of the conjugates described
herein.
[00186]       In certain embodiments, a conjugate can have a payload selected from the group
consisting of a label, a dye, a polymer, a water-soluble polymer, polyethylene glycol, a
derivative of polyethylene glycol, a photocrosslinker, a cytotoxic compound, a radionuclide, a
drug, an affinity label, a photoaffinity label, a reactive compound, a resin, a second protein or
polypeptide or polypeptide analog, an antibody or antibody fragment, a metal chelator, a
cofactor, a fatty acid, a carbohydrate, a polynucleotide, a DNA, a RNA, an antisense
polynucleotide, a peptide, a water-soluble dendrimer, a cyclodextrin, an inhibitory ribonucleic
acid, a biomaterial, a nanoparticle, a spin label, a fluorophore, a metal-containing moiety, a
radioactive moiety, a novel functional group, a group that covalently or noncovalently interacts
with other molecules, a photocaged moiety, a photoisomerizable moiety, biotin, a derivative of
biotin, a biotin analogue, a moiety incorporating a heavy atom, a chemically cleavable group, a
photocleavable group, an elongated side chain, a carbon-linked sugar, a redox-active agent, an
amino thioacid, a toxic moiety, an isotopically labeled moiety, a biophysical probe, a
phosphorescent group, a chemiluminescent group, an electron dense group, a magnetic group,
an intercalating group, a chromophore, an energy transfer agent, a biologically active agent, a
detectable label, a small molecule, or any combination thereof. In an embodiment, the payload
is a label, a dye, a polymer, a cytotoxic compound, a radionuclide, a drug, an affinity label, a
resin, a protein, a polypeptide, a polypeptide analog, an antibody, antibody fragment, a metal
                                                   56

chelator, a cofactor, a fatty acid, a carbohydrate, a polynucleotide, a DNA, a RNA, a peptide, a
fluorophore, or a carbon-linked sugar. In another embodiment, the payload is a label, a dye, a
polymer, a drug, an antibody, antibody fragment, a DNA, a RNA, or a peptide.
[00187]      Useful drug payloads include any cytotoxic, cytostatic or immunomodulatory agent.
Useful classes of cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include, for example, antitubulin
agents, auristatins, DNA minor groove binders, DNA replication inhibitors, alkylating agents
(e.g., platinum complexes such as cis-platin, mono(platinum), bis(platinum) and tri-nuclear
platinum complexes and carboplatin), anthracyclines, antibiotics, antifolates, antimetabolites,
calmodulin inhibitors, chemotherapy sensitizers, duocarmycins, etoposides, fluorinated
pyrimidines, ionophores, lexitropsins, maytansinoids, nitrosoureas, platinols, pore-forming
compounds, purine antimetabolites, puromycins, radiation sensitizers, rapamycins, steroids,
taxanes, topoisomerase inhibitors, vinca alkaloids, or the like.
[00188]      Individual cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include, for example, an
androgen, anthramycin (AMC), asparaginase, 5-azacytidine, azathioprine, bleomycin,
busulfan, buthionine sulfoximine, calicheamicin, calicheamicin derivatives, camptothecin,
carboplatin, carmustine (BSNU), CC-1065, chlorambucil, cisplatin, colchicine,
cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, cytidine arabinoside, cytochalasin B, dacarbazine,
dactinomycin (formerly actinomycin), daunorubicin, decarbazine, DM1, DM4, docetaxel,
doxorubicin, etoposide, an estrogen, 5-fluordeoxyuridine, 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine,
gramicidin D, hydroxyurea, idarubicin, ifosfamide, irinotecan, lomustine (CCNU), maytansine,
mechlorethamine, melphalan, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate, mithramycin, mitomycin C,
mitoxantrone, nitroimidazole, paclitaxel, palytoxin, plicamycin, procarbizine, rhizoxin,
streptozotocin, tenoposide, 6-thioguanine, thioTEPA, topotecan, vinblastine, vincristine,
vinorelbine, VP-16 and VM-26.
[00189]      In some embodiments, suitable cytotoxic agents include, for example, DNA minor
groove binders (e.g., enediynes and lexitropsins, a CBI compound; see also U.S. Pat. No.
6,130,237), duocarmycins, taxanes (e.g., paclitaxel and docetaxel), puromycins, vinca
alkaloids, CC-1065, SN-38, topotecan, morpholino-doxorubicin, rhizoxin, cyanomorpholino
doxorubicin, echinomycin, combretastatin, netropsin, epothilone A and B, estramustine,
cryptophycins, cemadotin, maytansinoids, discodermolide, eleutherobin, and mitoxantrone.
[00190]      In some embodiments, the payload is an anti-tubulin agent. Examples of anti
tubulin agents include, but are not limited to, taxanes (e.g., Taxol@ (paclitaxel), Taxotere@
(docetaxel)), T67 (Tularik) and vinca alkyloids (e.g., vincristine, vinblastine, vindesine, and
                                                  57

vinorelbine). Other antitubulin agents include, for example, baccatin derivatives, taxane
analogs, epothilones (e.g., epothilone A and B), nocodazole, colchicine and colcimid,
estramustine, cryptophycins, cemadotin, maytansinoids, combretastatins, discodermolide, and
eleutherobin.
[00191]     In certain embodiments, the cytotoxic agent is a maytansinoid, another group of
anti-tubulin agents. For example, in specific embodiments, the maytansinoid can be
maytansine or DM-1 (ImmunoGen, Inc.; see also Chari et al., 1992, Cancer Res. 52:127-13 1).
[00192]     In some embodiments, the payload is an auristatin, such as auristatin E or a
derivative thereof. For example, the auristatin E derivative can be an ester formed between
auristatin E and a keto acid. For example, auristatin E can be reacted with paraacetyl benzoic
acid or benzoylvaleric acid to produce AEB and AEVB, respectively. Other typical auristatin
derivatives include AFP, MMAF, and MMAE. The synthesis and structure of auristatin
derivatives are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003-0083263, 2005
0238649 and 2005-000975 1; International Patent Publication No. WO 04/010957,
International Patent Publication No. WO 02/088172, and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,323,315; 6,239,104;
6,034,065; 5,780,588; 5,665,860; 5,663,149; 5,635,483; 5,599,902; 5,554,725; 5,530,097;
5,521,284; 5,504,191; 5,410,024; 5,138,036; 5,076,973; 4,986,988; 4,978,744; 4,879,278;
4,816,444; and 4,486,414.
[00193]     In some embodiments, the payload is not a radioisotope. In some embodiments, the
payload is not radioactive.
[00194]     In some embodiments, the payload is an antimetabolite. The antimetabolite can be,
for example, a purine antagonist (e.g., azothioprine or mycophenolate mofetil), a dihydrofolate
reductase inhibitor (e.g., methotrexate), acyclovir, gangcyclovir, zidovudine, vidarabine,
ribavarin, azidothymidine, cytidine arabinoside, amantadine, dideoxyuridine,
iododeoxyuridine, poscamet, or trifluridine.
[00195]     In other embodiments, the payload is tacrolimus, cyclosporine, FU506 or
rapamycin. In further embodiments, the Drug is aldesleukin, alemtuzumab, alitretinoin,
allopurinol, altretamine, amifostine, anastrozole, arsenic trioxide, bexarotene, bexarotene,
calusterone, capecitabine, celecoxib, cladribine, Darbepoetin alfa, Denileukin diftitox,
dexrazoxane, dromostanolone propionate, epirubicin, Epoetin alfa, estramustine, exemestane,
Filgrastim, floxuridine, fludarabine, fulvestrant, gemcitabine, gemtuzumab ozogamicin
(MYLOTARG), goserelin, idarubicin, ifosfamide, imatinib mesylate, Interferon alfa-2a,
                                                58

irinotecan, letrozole, leucovorin, levamisole, meclorethamine or nitrogen mustard, megestrol,
mesna, methotrexate, methoxsalen, mitomycin C, mitotane, nandrolone phenpropionate,
oprelvekin, oxaliplatin, pamidronate, pegademase, pegaspargase, pegfilgrastim, pentostatin,
pipobroman, plicamycin, porfimer sodium, procarbazine, quinacrine, rasburicase, Rituximab,
Sargramostim, streptozocin, tamoxifen, temozolomide, teniposide, testolactone, thioguanine,
toremifene, Tositumomab, Trastuzumab (HERCEPTIN), tretinoin, uracil mustard, valrubicin,
vinblastine, vincristine, vinorelbine or zoledronate.
[00196]      In some embodiments, the payload is an immunomodulatory agent. The
immunomodulatory agent can be, for example, gangcyclovir, etanercept, tacrolimus,
cyclosporine, rapamycin, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil or
methotrexate. Alternatively, the immunomodulatory agent can be, for example, a
glucocorticoid (e.g., cortisol or aldosterone) or a glucocorticoid analogue (e.g., prednisone or
dexamethasone).
[00197]      In some embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is an anti-inflammatory agent,
such as arylcarboxylic derivatives, pyrazole-containing derivatives, oxicam derivatives and
nicotinic acid derivatives. Classes of anti-inflammatory agents include, for example,
cyclooxygenase inhibitors, 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors, and leukotriene receptor antagonists.
[00198]      Suitable cyclooxygenase inhibitors include meclofenamic acid, mefenamic acid,
carprofen, diclofenac, diflunisal, fenbufen, fenoprofen, indomethacin, ketoprofen, nabumetone,
sulindac, tenoxicam and tolmetin.
[00199]      Suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include redox inhibitors (e.g., catechol butane
derivatives, nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), masoprocol, phenidone, Ianopalen,
indazolinones, naphazatrom, benzofuranol, alkylhydroxylamine), and non-redox inhibitors
(e.g., hydroxythiazoles, methoxyalkylthiazoles, benzopyrans and derivatives thereof,
methoxytetrahydropyran, boswellic acids and acetylated derivatives of boswellic acids, and
quinolinemethoxyphenylacetic acids substituted with cycloalkyl radicals), and precursors of
redox inhibitors.
[00200]      Other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include antioxidants (e.g., phenols, propyl
gallate, flavonoids and/or naturally occurring substrates containing flavonoids, hydroxylated
derivatives of the flavones, flavonol, dihydroquercetin, luteolin, galangin, orobol, derivatives
of chalcone, 4,2',4'-trihydroxychalcone, ortho-aminophenols, N-hydroxyureas, benzofuranols,
ebselen and species that increase the activity of the reducing selenoenzymes), iron chelating
                                                 59

agents (e.g., hydroxamic acids and derivatives thereof, N-hydroxyureas, 2-benzyl-1-naphthol,
catechols, hydroxylamines, carnosol trolox C, catechol, naphthol, sulfasalazine, zyleuton, 5
hydroxyanthranilic acid and 4-(omega-arylalkyl)phenylalkanoic acids), imidazole-containing
compounds (e.g., ketoconazole and itraconazole), phenothiazines, and benzopyran derivatives.
[00201]      Yet other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include inhibitors of eicosanoids (e.g.,
octadecatetraenoic, eicosatetraenoic, docosapentaenoic, eicosahexaenoic and docosahexaenoic
acids and esters thereof, PGE1 (prostaglandin E l), PGA2 (prostaglandin A2), viprostol, 15
monohydroxyeicosatetraenoic, 15-monohydroxy-eicosatrienoic and 15
monohydroxyeicosapentaenoic acids, and leukotrienes B5, C5 and D5), compounds interfering
with calcium flows, phenothiazines, diphenylbutylamines, verapamil, fuscoside, curcumin,
chlorogenic acid, caffeic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetrayenoic acid (ETYA),
hydroxyphenylretinamide, Ionapalen, esculin, diethylcarbamazine, phenantroline, baicalein,
proxicromil, thioethers, diallyl sulfide and di-(1-propenyl) sulfide.
[00202]      Leukotriene receptor antagonists include calcitriol, ontazolast, Bayer Bay-x-1005,
Ciba-Geigy CGS-25019C, ebselen, Leo Denmark ETH-615, Lilly LY-293 111, Ono ONO
4057, Terumo TMK-688, Boehringer Ingleheim BI-RM-270, Lilly LY 213024, Lilly LY
264086, Lilly LY 292728, Ono ONO LB457, Pfizer 105696, Perdue Frederick PF 10042,
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RP 66153, SmithKline Beecham SB-201146, SmithKline Beecham SB
201993, SmithKline Beecham SB-209247, Searle SC-53228, Sumitamo SM 15178, American
Home Products WAY 121006, Bayer Bay-o-8276, Warner-Lambert CI-987, Warner-Lambert
CI-987BPC-15LY 223982, Lilly LY 233569, Lilly LY-255283, MacroNex MNX-160, Merck
and Co. MK-591, Merck and Co. MK-886, Ono ONO-LB-448, Purdue Frederick PF-5901,
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RG14893, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RP 66364, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RP
69698, Shionoogi S-2474, Searle SC-41930, Searle SC-50505, Searle SC-51146, Searle SC
52798, SmithKline Beecham SK&F-104493, Leo Denmark SR-2566, Tanabe T-757 and Teijin
TEI-1338.
[00203]      Other useful drug payloads include chemical compounds useful in the treatment of
cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib (TARCEVA@, Genentech/OSI
Pharm.), Bortezomib (VELCADE@, Millennium Pharm.), Fulvestrant (FASLODEX@,
AstraZeneca), Sutent (SU1 1248, Pfizer), Letrozole (FEMARA@, Novartis), Imatinib mesylate
(GLEEVEC@, Novartis), PTK787/ZK 222584 (Novartis), Oxaliplatin (Eloxatin, Sanofi), 5
FU (5-fluorouracil), Leucovorin, Rapamycin (Sirolimus, RAPAMUNE@, Wyeth), Lapatinib
(TYKERB@, GSK572016, Glaxo Smith Kline), Lonafarnib (SCH 66336), Sorafenib (BAY43
                                                 60

9006, Bayer Labs), and Gefitinib (IRESSA@, AstraZeneca), AG1478, AG1571 (SU 5271;
Sugen), alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN@ cyclosphosphamide; alkyl
sulfonates such as busulfan, improsulfan and piposulfan; aziridines such as benzodopa,
carboquone, meturedopa, and uredopa; ethylenimines and methylamelamines including
altretamine, triethylenemelamine, triethylenephosphoramide, triethylenethiophosphoramide
and trimethylomelamine; acetogenins (especially bullatacin and bullatacinone); a camptothecin
(including the synthetic analog topotecan); bryostatin; callystatin; CC-1065 (including its
adozelesin, carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs); cryptophycins (particularly
cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8); dolastatin; duocarmycin (including the synthetic analogs,
KW-2189 and CB1-TM1); eleutherobin; pancratistatin; a sarcodictyin; spongistatin; nitrogen
mustards such as chlorambucil, chlomaphazine, chlorophosphamide, estramustine, ifosfamide,
mechlorethamine, mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride, melphalan, novembichin,
phenesterine, prednimustine, trofosfamide, uracil mustard; nitrosureas such as carmustine,
chlorozotocin, fotemustine, lomustine, nimustine, and ranimnustine; antibiotics such as the
enediyne antibiotics (e.g., calicheamicin, especially calicheamicin gammall and calicheamicin
omegall (Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. (1994) 33:183-186); dynemicin, including dynemicin
A; bisphosphonates, such as clodronate; an esperamicin; as well as neocarzinostatin
chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores), aclacinomysins,
actinomycin, authramycin, azaserine, bleomycins, cactinomycin, carabicin, caminomycin,
carzinophilin, chromomycinis, dactinomycin, daunorubicin, detorubicin, 6-diazo-5-oxo-L
norleucine, ADRIAMYCIN@ (doxorubicin), morpholino-doxorubicin, cyanomorpholino
doxorubicin, 2-pyrrolino-doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin), epirubicin, esorubicin,
idarubicin, marcellomycin, mitomycins such as mitomycin C, mycophenolic acid,
nogalamycin, olivomycins, peplomycin, porfiromycin, puromycin, quelamycin, rodorubicin,
streptonigrin, streptozocin, tubercidin, ubenimex, zinostatin, zorubicin; anti-metabolites such
as methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU); folic acid analogs such as denopterin, methotrexate,
pteropterin, trimetrexate; purine analogs such as fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, thiamniprine,
thioguanine; pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine, azacitidine, 6-azauridine, carmofur,
cytarabine, dideoxyuridine, doxifluridine, enocitabine, floxuridine; androgens such as
calusterone, dromostanolone propionate, epitiostanol, mepitiostane, testolactone; anti-adrenals
such as aminoglutethimide, mitotane, trilostane; folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid;
aceglatone; aldophosphamide glycoside; aminolevulinic acid; eniluracil; amsacrine;
bestrabucil; bisantrene; edatraxate; defofamine; demecolcine; diaziquone; elformithine;
elliptinium acetate; an epothilone; etoglucid; gallium nitrate; hydroxyurea; lentinan;
                                                61

lonidainine; maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins; mitoguazone; mitoxantrone;
mopidanmol; nitraerine; pentostatin; phenamet; pirarubicin; losoxantrone; podophyllinic acid;
2-ethylhydrazide; procarbazine; PSK@ polysaccharide complex (JHS Natural Products,
Eugene, Oreg.); razoxane; rhizoxin; sizofuran; spirogermanium; tenuazonic acid; triaziquone;
2,2',2"-trichlorotriethylamine; trichothecenes (especially T-2 toxin, verracurin A, roridin A and
anguidine); urethan; vindesine; dacarbazine; mannomustine; mitobronitol; mitolactol;
pipobroman; gacytosine; arabinoside ("Ara-C"); cyclophosphamide; thiotepa; taxoids, e.g.,
TAXOL (paclitaxel; Bristol-Myers Squibb Oncology, Princeton, N.J.), ABRAXANE@
(Cremophor-free), albumin-engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel (American
Pharmaceutical Partners, Schaumberg, Ill.), and TAXOTERE (doxetaxel; Rhone-Poulenc
Rorer, Antony, France); chloranmbucil; GEMZAR (gemcitabine); 6-thioguanine;
mercaptopurine; methotrexate; platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin; vinblastine;
etoposide (VP-16); ifosfamide; mitoxantrone; vincristine; NAVELBINE@ (vinorelbine);
novantrone; teniposide; edatrexate; daunomycin; aminopterin; capecitabine (XELODA@);
ibandronate; CPT- 11; topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000; difluoromethylomithine (DMFO);
retinoids such as retinoic acid; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids and derivatives of
any of the above.
[00204]      Other useful payloads include: (i) anti-hormonal agents that act to regulate or
inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti-estrogens and selective estrogen receptor
modulators (SERMs), including, for example, tamoxifen (including NOLVADEX; tamoxifen
citrate), raloxifene, droloxifene, 4-hydroxytamoxifen, trioxifene, keoxifene, LY1 17018,
onapristone, and FARESTON (toremifine citrate); (ii) aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the
enzyme aromatase, which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands, such as, for
example, 4(5)-imidazoles, aminoglutethimide, MEGASE (megestrol acetate), AROMASIN@
(exemestane; Pfizer), formestanie, fadrozole, RIVISOR (vorozole), FEMARA (letrozole;
Novartis), and ARIMIDEX (anastrozole; AstraZeneca); (iii) anti-androgens such as
flutamide, nilutamide, bicalutamide, leuprolide, and goserelin; as well as troxacitabine (a 1,3
dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog); (iv) protein kinase inhibitors; (v) lipid kinase inhibitors;
(vi) antisense oligonucleotides, particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in
signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation, such as, for example, PKC-alpha,
Ralf and H-Ras; (vii) ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors (e.g., ANGIOZYME)
and HER2 expression inhibitors; (viii) vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines, for example,
ALLOVECTIN, LEUVECTIN, and VAXID; PROLEUKIN rIL-2; a topoisomerase 1
inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN; ABARELIX rmRH; (ix) anti-angiogenic agents such as
                                                 62

bevacizumab (AVASTIN@, Genentech); and (x) pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids and
derivatives of any of the above. Other anti-angiogenic agents include MMP-2 (matrix
metalloproteinase 2) inhibitors, MMP-9 (matrix-metalloproteinase 9) inhibitors, COX-II
(cyclooxygenase II) inhibitors, and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Examples of
such useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors that can be used in combination with the
present compounds/compositions are described in WO 96/33172, WO 96/27583, EP 818442,
EP 1004578, WO 98/07697, WO 98/03516, WO 98/34918, WO 98/34915, WO 98/33768, WO
98/30566, EP 606,046, EP 931,788, WO 90/05719, WO 99/52910, WO 99/52889, WO
99/29667, WO 99/07675, EP 945864, U.S. Pat. No. 5,863,949, U.S. Pat. No. 5,861,510, and
EP 780,386, all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Examples of
VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors include 4-(4-bromo-2-fluoroanilino)-6-methoxy-7
(1-methylpiperidin-4-ylmethoxy)quinazoline (ZD6474; Example 2 within WO 01/32651), 4
(4-fluoro-2-methylindol-5-yloxy)-6-methoxy-7-(3-pyrrolidin-1-ylpropoxy)quinazoline
(AZD2171; Example 240 within WO 00/47212), vatalanib (PTK787; WO 98/35985) and
SU1 1248 (sunitinib; WO 01/60814), and compounds such as those disclosed in PCT
Publication Nos. WO 97/22596, WO 97/30035, WO 97/32856, and WO 98/13354).
[00205]     In certain embodiments, the payload is an antibody or an antibody fragment. In
certain embodiments, the payload antibody or fragment can be encoded by any of the
immunoglobulin genes recognized by those of skill in the art. The immunoglobulin genes
include, but are not limited to, the K, X, a, 7 (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4), 6, E and p constant
region genes, as well as the immunoglobulin variable region genes. The term includes full
length antibody and antibody fragments recognized by those of skill in the art, and variants
thereof. Exemplary fragments include but are not limited to Fv, Fc, Fab, and (Fab') 2 , single
chain Fv (scFv), diabodies, triabodies, tetrabodies, bifunctional hybrid polypeptides, CDR1,
CDR2, CDR3, combinations of CDR's, variable regions, framework regions, constant regions,
and the like.
[00206]     In certain embodiments, the payload is one or more water-soluble polymers. A
wide variety of macromolecular polymers and other molecules can be linked to the
polypeptides described herein to modulate biological properties of the polypeptide, and/or
provide new biological properties to the polypeptide. These macromolecular polymers can be
linked to the polypeptide via a naturally encoded amino acid, via a non-naturally encoded
amino acid, or any functional substituent of a natural or modified amino acid, or any
substituent or functional group added to a natural or modified amino acid. The molecular
                                                   63

weight of the polymer may be of a wide range, including but not limited to, between about 100
Da and about 100,000 Da or more.
[00207]     The polymer selected may be water soluble so that a protein to which it is attached
does not precipitate in an aqueous environment, such as a physiological environment. The
polymer may be branched or unbranched. Preferably, for therapeutic use of the end-product
preparation, the polymer will be pharmaceutically acceptable.
[00208]     In certain embodiments, the proportion of polyethylene glycol molecules to
polypeptide molecules will vary, as will their concentrations in the reaction mixture. In
general, the optimum ratio (in terms of efficiency of reaction in that there is minimal excess
unreacted protein or polymer) may be determined by the molecular weight of the polyethylene
glycol selected and on the number of available reactive groups available. As relates to
molecular weight, typically the higher the molecular weight of the polymer, the fewer number
of polymer molecules which may be attached to the protein. Similarly, branching of the
polymer should be taken into account when optimizing these parameters. Generally, the higher
the molecular weight (or the more branches) the higher the polymer:protein ratio.
[00209]     The water soluble polymer may be any structural form including but not limited to
linear, forked or branched. Typically, the water soluble polymer is a poly(alkylene glycol),
such as poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), but other water soluble polymers can also be employed.
By way of example, PEG is used to describe certain embodiments.
[00210]     PEG is a well-known, water soluble polymer that is commercially available or can
be prepared by ring-opening polymerization of ethylene glycol according to methods well
known in the art (Sandler and Karo, Polymer Synthesis, Academic Press, New York, Vol. 3,
pages 138-161). The term "PEG" is used broadly to encompass any polyethylene glycol
molecule, without regard to size or to modification at an end of the PEG, and can be
represented as linked to a polypeptide by the formula: XO-(CH 2CH 2 0)"-CH2CH 2 -Y where n
is 2 to 10,000 and X is H or a terminal modification, including but not limited to, a C 1 4 alkyl.
[00211]     In some cases, a PEG terminates on one end with hydroxy or methoxy, i.e., X is H
or CH 3 ("methoxy PEG"). Alternatively, the PEG can terminate with a reactive group, thereby
forming a bifunctional polymer. Typical reactive groups can include those reactive groups that
are commonly used to react with the functional groups found in the 20 common amino acids
(including but not limited to, maleimide groups, activated carbonates (including but not limited
to, p-nitrophenyl ester), activated esters (including but not limited to, N-hydroxysuccinimide,
                                                  64

p-nitrophenyl ester) and aldehydes) as well as functional groups that are inert to the 20
common amino acids but that react specifically with complementary functional groups present
in non-naturally encoded amino acids (including but not limited to, azide groups, alkyne
groups). It is noted that the other end of the PEG, which is shown in the above formula by Y,
will attach either directly or indirectly to a polypeptide via a naturally-occurring or non
naturally encoded amino acid. For instance, Y may be an amide, carbamate or urea linkage to
an amine group (including but not limited to, the epsilon amine of lysine or the N-terminus) of
the polypeptide. Alternatively, Y may be a maleimide linkage to a thiol group (including but
not limited to, the thiol group of cysteine). Alternatively, Y may be a linkage to a residue not
commonly accessible via the 20 common amino acids. For example, an azide group on the
PEG can be reacted with an alkyne group on the polypeptide to form a Huisgen [3+2]
cycloaddition product. Alternatively, an alkyne group on the PEG can be reacted with an azide
group present in a non-naturally encoded amino acid, such as the modified amino acids
described herein, to form a similar product. In some embodiments, a strong nucleophile
(including but not limited to, hydrazine, hydrazide, hydroxylamine, semicarbazide) can be
reacted with an aldehyde or ketone group present in a non-naturally encoded amino acid to
form a hydrazone, oxime or semicarbazone, as applicable, which in some cases can be further
reduced by treatment with an appropriate reducing agent. Alternatively, the strong nucleophile
can be incorporated into the polypeptide via a non-naturally encoded amino acid and used to
react preferentially with a ketone or aldehyde group present in the water soluble polymer.
[00212]     Any molecular mass for a PEG can be used as practically desired, including but not
limited to, from about 100 Daltons (Da) to 100,000 Da or more as desired (including but not
limited to, sometimes 0.1-50 kDa or 10-40 kDa). Branched chain PEGs, including but not
limited to, PEG molecules with each chain having a MW ranging from 1-100 kDa (including
but not limited to, 1-50 kDa or 5-20 kDa) can also be used. A wide range of PEG molecules
are described in, including but not limited to, the Shearwater Polymers, Inc. catalog, Nektar
Therapeutics catalog, incorporated herein by reference.
[00213]     Generally, at least one terminus of the PEG molecule is available for reaction with
the non-naturally-encoded amino acid. For example, PEG derivatives bearing alkyne and azide
moieties for reaction with amino acid side chains can be used to attach PEG to non-naturally
encoded amino acids as described herein. If the non-naturally encoded amino acid comprises
an azide, then the PEG will typically contain either an alkyne moiety to effect formation of the
[3+2] cycloaddition product or an activated PEG species (i.e., ester, carbonate) containing a
                                                   65

phosphine group to effect formation of the amide linkage. Alternatively, if the non-naturally
encoded amino acid comprises an alkyne, then the PEG will typically contain an azide moiety
to effect formation of the [3+2] Huisgen cycloaddition product. If the non-naturally encoded
amino acid comprises a carbonyl group, the PEG will typically comprise a potent nucleophile
(including but not limited to, a hydrazide, hydrazine, hydroxylamine, or semicarbazide
functionality) in order to effect formation of corresponding hydrazone, oxime, and
semicarbazone linkages, respectively. In other alternatives, a reverse of the orientation of the
reactive groups described herein can be used, i.e., an azide moiety in the non-naturally encoded
amino acid can be reacted with a PEG derivative containing an alkyne.
[00214]     In some embodiments, the polypeptide variant with a PEG derivative contains a
chemical functionality that is reactive with the chemical functionality present on the side chain
of the non-naturally encoded amino acid.
[00215]     In certain embodiments, the payload is an azide- or acetylene-containing polymer
comprising a water soluble polymer backbone having an average molecular weight from about
800 Da to about 100,000 Da. The polymer backbone of the water-soluble polymer can be
poly(ethylene glycol). However, it should be understood that a wide variety of water soluble
polymers including but not limited to poly(ethylene)glycol and other related polymers,
including poly(dextran) and poly(propylene glycol), are also suitable for use and that the use of
the term PEG or poly(ethylene glycol) is intended to encompass and include all such
molecules. The term PEG includes, but is not limited to, poly(ethylene glycol) in any of its
forms, including bifunctional PEG, multiarmed PEG, derivatized PEG, forked PEG, branched
PEG, pendent PEG (i.e. PEG or related polymers having one or more functional groups
pendent to the polymer backbone), or PEG with degradable linkages therein.
[00216]     The polymer backbone can be linear or branched. Branched polymer backbones are
generally known in the art. Typically, a branched polymer has a central branch core moiety and
a plurality of linear polymer chains linked to the central branch core. PEG is commonly used in
branched forms that can be prepared by addition of ethylene oxide to various polyols, such as
glycerol, glycerol oligomers, pentaerythritol and sorbitol. The central branch moiety can also
be derived from several amino acids, such as lysine. The branched poly(ethylene glycol) can be
represented in general form as R(-PEG-OH)m in which R is derived from a core moiety, such
as glycerol, glycerol oligomers, or pentaerythritol, and m represents the number of arms.
Multi-armed PEG molecules, such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,932,462 5,643,575;
5,229,490; 4,289,872; U.S. Pat. Appl. 2003/0143596; WO 96/21469; and WO 93/21259, each
                                                 66

of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety, can also be used as the polymer
backbone.
[00217]      Branched PEG can also be in the form of a forked PEG represented by PEG(
YCHZ 2 )n, where Y is a linking group and Z is an activated terminal group linked to CH by a
chain of atoms of defined length.
[00218]      Yet another branched form, the pendant PEG, has reactive groups, such as carboxyl,
along the PEG backbone rather than at the end of PEG chains.
[00219]      In addition to these forms of PEG, the polymer can also be prepared with weak or
degradable linkages in the backbone. For example, PEG can be prepared with ester linkages in
the polymer backbone that are subject to hydrolysis. As shown herein, this hydrolysis results in
cleavage of the polymer into fragments of lower molecular weight: -PEG-C0 2-PEG
+H 20-+PEG-CO 2H+HO-PEG- It is understood by those skilled in the art that the term
poly(ethylene glycol) or PEG represents or includes all the forms known in the art including
but not limited to those disclosed herein.
[00220]      Many other polymers are also suitable for use. In some embodiments, polymer
backbones that are water-soluble, with from 2 to about 300 termini, are particularly. Examples
of suitable polymers include, but are not limited to, other poly(alkylene glycols), such as
poly(propylene glycol) ("PPG"), copolymers thereof (including but not limited to copolymers
of ethylene glycol and propylene glycol), terpolymers thereof, mixtures thereof, and the like.
Although the molecular weight of each chain of the polymer backbone can vary, it is typically
in the range of from about 800 Da to about 100,000 Da, often from about 6,000 Da to about
80,000 Da.
[00221]      Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the foregoing list for
substantially water soluble backbones is by no means exhaustive and is merely illustrative, and
that all polymeric materials having the qualities described herein are contemplated as being
suitable for use.
[00222]      In some embodiments the polymer derivatives are "multi-functional", meaning that
the polymer backbone has at least two termini, and possibly as many as about 300 termini,
functionalized or activated with a functional group. Multifunctional polymer derivatives
include, but are not limited to, linear polymers having two termini, each terminus being bonded
to a functional group which may be the same or different.
                                                  67

[00223]       The azide functional group can be reacted selectively with a payload moiety
containing an aryl ester and appropriately functionalized with an aryl phosphine moiety to
generate an amide linkage. The aryl phosphine group reduces the azide in situ and the resulting
amine then reacts efficiently with a proximal ester linkage to generate the corresponding
amide. See, e.g., E. Saxon and C. Bertozzi, Science 287, 2007-2010 (2000). In some
embodiments, the azide-containing amino acid is an alkyl azide (including but not limited to,
2-amino-6-azido-1-hexanoic acid) or an aryl azide (p-azido-phenylalanine).
[00224]       Exemplary payload moieties containing an aryl ester and a phosphine moiety can be
represented as follows:
                                         R       O
                                                 PPh 2
wherein X is -0-, -NH-, -S-, or a single bond, Ph is phenyl, W is a payload moiety and R is
H, alkyl, aryl, substituted alkyl and substituted aryl groups. Exemplary R groups include, but
are not limited to, -CH 2 , -C(CH 3) 3, -OR', -NR'R", -SR', -halogen, -C(O)R', -CONR'R",
S(O) 2 R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -CN and -NO 2 . R', R", R"' and R"" are each independently hydrogen,
substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, including but not
limited to, aryl substituted with 1-3 halogens, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, alkoxy or
thioalkoxy groups, or arylalkyl groups. When a compound described herein includes more than
one R group, for example, each of the R groups is independently selected as are each R', R",
R"' and R"" groups when more than one of these groups is present. When R' and R" are
attached to the same nitrogen atom, they can be combined with the nitrogen atom to form a 5-,
6-, or 7-membered ring. For example, -NR'R" is meant to include, but not be limited to, 1
pyrrolidinyl and 4-morpholinyl. From the above discussion of substituents, one of skill in the
art will understand that the term "alkyl" is meant to include groups including carbon atoms
bound to groups other than hydrogen groups, such as haloalkyl (including but not limited to,
CF 3 and -CH 2CF 3) and acyl (including but not limited to, -C(O)CH 3 , -C(O)CF 3,
C(O)CH 20CH3, and the like).
[00225]       The azide functional group can also be reacted selectively with a payload moiety
containing a thioester and appropriately functionalized with an aryl phosphine moiety to
generate an amide linkage. The aryl phosphine group reduces the azide in situ and the resulting
amine then reacts efficiently with the thioester linkage to generate the corresponding amide.
                                                 68

Exemplary water soluble polymers containing a thioester and a phosphine moiety can be
represented as follows:
                                   Ph 2P(H 2C),   S        X   W
                                                      0
wherein n is 1-10; X can be 0, N, S or not present, Ph is phenyl, and W is a payload moiety.
[00226]      In one embodiment, the polymer derivative has the structure: X-A-PAY-B-atkynyl,
wherein: B is a linking moiety, which may be present or absent; PAY is a payload moiety; A is
a linking moiety, which may be present or absent and which may be the same as B or different;
and X is a second functional group. Examples of a linking moiety for A and B include, but are
not limited to, a multiply-functionalized atkyl group containing up to 18, and more preferably
between 1-10 carbon atoms. A heteroatom such as nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur may be included
with the alkyl chain. The alkyl chain may also be branched at a heteroatom. Other examples of
a linking moiety for A and B include, but are not limited to, a multiply functionalized aryl
group, containing up to 10 and more preferably 5-6 carbon atoms. The aryl group may be
substituted with one more carbon atoms, nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur atoms. Other examples of
suitable linking groups include those linking groups described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,932,462;
5,643,575; and U.S. Pat. Apple. Publication 2003/0143596, each of which is incorporated by
reference herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the foregoing list for
linking moieties is by no means exhaustive and is merely illustrative, and that all linking
moieties having the qualities described herein are contemplated to be suitable for use.
[00227]      Examples of suitable functional groups for use as X include, but are not limited to,
hydroxyl, protected hydroxyl, alkoxyl, active ester, such as N-hydroxysuccinimidyl esters and
1-benzotriazolyl esters, active carbonate, such as N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbonates and 1
benzotriazolyl carbonates, acetal, aldehyde, aldehyde hydrates, alkenyl, acrylate, methacrylate,
acrylamide, active sulfone, amine, aminooxy, protected amine, hydrazide, protected hydrazide,
protected thiol, carboxylic acid, protected carboxylic acid, isocyanate, isothiocyanate,
maleimide, vinylsulfone, dithiopyridine, vinylpyridine, iodoacetamide, epoxide, glyoxals,
diones, mesylates, tosylates, tresylate, alkene, and ketone. As is understood by those skilled in
the art, the selected X moiety should be compatible with the alkynyl group so that reaction
with the alkynyl group does not occur. The alkynyl-containing polymer derivatives may be
                                                 69

homobifunctional, meaning that the second functional group (i.e., X) is also an alkynyl moiety,
or heterobifunctional, meaning that the second functional group is a different functional group.
[00228]      The term "protected" refers to the presence of a protecting group or moiety that
prevents reaction of the chemically reactive functional group under certain reaction conditions.
The protecting group will vary depending on the type of chemically reactive group being
protected. For example, if the chemically reactive group is an amine or a hydrazide, the
protecting group can be selected from the group of tert-butyloxycarbonyl (t-Boc) and 9
fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl (Fmoc). If the chemically reactive group is a thiol, the protecting
group can be orthopyridyldisulfide. If the chemically reactive group is a carboxylic acid, such
as butanoic or propionic acid, or a hydroxyl group, the protecting group can be benzyl or an
alkyl group such as methyl, ethyl, or tert-butyl. Other protecting groups known in the art may
also be used.
[00229]      Specific examples of terminal functional groups in the literature include, but are not
limited to, N-succinimidyl carbonate (see e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,281,698, 5,468,478), amine
(see, e.g., Buckmann et al. Makromol. Chem. 182:1379 (1981), Zaplipsky et al. Eur. Polym. J.
19:1177 (1983)), hydrazide (See, e.g., Andresz et al. Makromol. Chem. 179:301 (1978)),
succinimidyl propionate and succinimidyl butanoate (see, e.g., Olson et al. in Poly(ethylene
glycol) Chemistry & Biological Applications, pp 170-18 1, Harris & Zaplipsky Eds., ACS,
Washington, D.C., 1997; see also U.S. Pat. No. 5,672,662), succinimidyl succinate (See, e.g.,
Abuchowski et al. Cancer Biochem. Biophys. 7:175 (1984) and Joppich et al. Macrolol. Chem.
180:1381 (1979), succinimidyl ester (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,670,417), benzotriazole
carbonate (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,650,234), glycidyl ether (see, e.g., Pitha et al. Eur. J
Biochem. 94:11 (1979), Elling et al., Biotech. Appl. Biochem. 13:354 (1991),
oxycarbonylimidazole (see, e.g., Beauchamp, et al., Anal. Biochem. 131:25 (1983), Tondelli et
al. J. Controlled Release 1:251 (1985)), p-nitrophenyl carbonate (see, e.g., Veronese, et al.,
Appl. Biochem. Biotech., 11: 141 (1985); and Sartore et al., Appl. Biochem. Biotech., 27:45
(1991)), aldehyde (see, e.g., Harris et al. J. Polym. Sci. Chem. Ed. 22:341 (1984), U.S. Pat. No.
5,824,784, U.S. Pat. No. 5,252,714), maleimide (see, e.g., Goodson et al. Bio/Technology
8:343 (1990), Romani et al. in Chemistry of Peptides and Proteins 2:29 (1984)), and Kogan,
Synthetic Comm. 22:2417 (1992)), orthopyridyl-disulfide (see, e.g., Woghiren, et al. Bioconj.
Chem. 4:314(1993)), acrylol (see, e.g., Sawhney et al., Macromolecules, 26:581 (1993)),
vinylsulfone (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,900,461). All of the above references and patents are
incorporated herein by reference.
                                                  70

[00230]     In certain embodiments, polymer derivatives comprise a polymer backbone having
the structure: X-CH2 CH 20-(CH2 CH 2 0),-CH2CH 2-alkynyl, wherein: X is a functional group
as described herein; and n is about 20 to about 4000. In another embodiment, the polymer
derivatives comprise a polymer backbone having the structure: X-CH 2 CH 2 0-(CH2 CH 2 0).
CH 2CH 2-0-(CH 2)m-W-alkynyl wherein: W is an aliphatic or aromatic linker moiety
comprising between 1-10 carbon atoms; n is about 20 to about 4000; X is a functional group as
described herein; and m is between 1 and 10. Examples of suitable functional groups include,
but are not limited to, hydroxyl, protected hydroxyl, acetal, alkenyl, amine, aminooxy,
protected amine, protected hydrazide, protected thiol, carboxylic acid, protected carboxylic
acid, maleimide, dithiopyridine, and vinylpyridine, and ketone.
[00231]     Alkynyl-containing PEG derivatives can be prepared by a variety of methods
known in the art and/or disclosed herein. In a method for preparation of an alkynyl-containing
polymer derivative, a linking agent bearing an alkynyl functionality is contacted with a payload
moiety, wherein the linking agent bears a chemical functionality that will react selectively with
a chemical functionality on the PEG polymer, to form an alkynyl-containing polymer
derivative product wherein the alkynyl is separated from the polymer backbone by a linking
group.
[00232]     An exemplary reaction scheme is shown herein: X-PEG-M+N-linker-alkynyl---+PG
X-PEG-linker-alkynyl wherein: PEG is poly(ethylene glycol) and X is a capping group such as
alkoxy or a functional group as described herein; and M is a functional group that is not
reactive with the alkynyl functionality but that will react efficiently and selectively with the N
functional group. Examples of suitable functional groups include, but are not limited to, M
being a carboxylic acid, carbonate or active ester if N is an amine; M being a ketone if N is a
hydrazide or aminooxy moiety; M being a leaving group if N is a nucleophile.
[00233]     Purification of the crude product may be accomplished by known methods
including, but are not limited to, precipitation of the product followed by chromatography, if
necessary.
[00234]     A more specific example is shown herein in the case of PEG diamine, in which one
of the amines is protected by a protecting group moiety such as tert-butyl-Boc and the resulting
mono-protected PEG diamine is reacted with a linking moiety that bears the alkynyl
functionality: BocHN-PEG-NH 2+HO 2 C-(CH 2) 3-alkynyl. In this instance, the amine group can
be coupled to the carboxylic acid group using a variety of activating agents such as thionyl
chloride or carbodiimide reagents and N-hydroxysuccinimide or N-hydroxybenzotriazole to
                                                 71

create an amide bond between the monoamine PEG derivative and the alkynyl-bearing linker
moiety. After successful formation of the amide bond, the resulting N-tert-butyl-Boc-protected
alkynyl-containing derivative can be used directly to modify bioactive molecules or it can be
further elaborated to install other useful functional groups. For instance, the N-t-Boc group can
be hydrolyzed by treatment with strong acid to generate an omega-amino-PEG-azide. The
resulting amine can be used as a synthetic handle to install other useful functionality such as
maleimide groups, activated disulfides, activated esters and so forth for the creation of valuable
heterobifunctional reagents.
[00235]      In another embodiment, the polymer derivative has the structure: X-A-PAY-B
C--C-R wherein: R can be either H or an alkyl, alkene, alkyoxy, or aryl or substituted aryl
group; B is a linking moiety, which may be present or absent; PAY is a payload moiety; A is a
linking moiety, which may be present or absent and which may be the same as B or different;
and X is a second functional group.
[00236]      Examples of a linking moiety for A and B include, but are not limited to, a
multiply-functionalized alkyl group containing up to 18, and more preferably between 1-10
carbon atoms. A heteroatom such as nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur may be included with the alkyl
chain. The alkyl chain may also be branched at a heteroatom. Other examples of a linking
moiety for A and B include, but are not limited to, a multiply functionalized aryl group,
containing up to 10 and more preferably 5-6 carbon atoms. The aryl group may be substituted
with one more carbon atoms, nitrogen, oxygen, or sulfur atoms. Other examples of suitable
linking groups include those linking groups described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,932,462 and
5,643,575 and U.S. Pat. Appl. Publication 2003/0143596, each of which is incorporated by
reference herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the foregoing list for
linking moieties is by no means exhaustive and is intended to be merely illustrative, and that a
wide variety of linking moieties having the qualities described herein are contemplated to be
useful.
[00237]      Examples of suitable functional groups for use as X include hydroxyl, protected
hydroxyl, alkoxyl, active ester, such as N-hydroxysuccinimidyl esters and 1-benzotriazolyl
esters, active carbonate, such as N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbonates and 1-benzotriazolyl
carbonates, acetal, aldehyde, aldehyde hydrates, alkenyl, acrylate, methacrylate, acrylamide,
active sulfone, amine, aminooxy, protected amine, hydrazide, protected hydrazide, protected
thiol, carboxylic acid, protected carboxylic acid, isocyanate, isothiocyanate, maleimide,
vinylsulfone, dithiopyridine, vinylpyridine, iodoacetamide, epoxide, glyoxals, diones,
                                                  72

mesylates, tosylates, and tresylate, alkene, ketone, and acetylene. As would be understood, the
selected X moiety should be compatible with the acetylene group so that reaction with the
acetylene group does not occur. The acetylene-containing polymer derivatives may be
homobifunctional, meaning that the second functional group (i.e., X) is also an acetylene
moiety, or heterobifunctional, meaning that the second functional group is a different
functional group.
[00238]     In another embodiment, the polymer derivatives comprise a polymer backbone
having the structure: X-CH2CH20-(CH2CH20)n-CH2CH2-0-(CH2)m-CECH wherein: X is a
functional group as described herein; n is about 20 to about 4000; and m is between 1 and 10.
Specific examples of each of the heterobifunctional PEG polymers are shown herein.
[00239]     The acetylene-containing PEG derivatives can be prepared using methods known
to those skilled in the art and/or disclosed herein. In one method, a water soluble polymer
backbone having an average molecular weight from about 800 Da to about 100,000 Da, the
polymer backbone having a first terminus bonded to a first functional group and a second
terminus bonded to a suitable nucleophilic group, is reacted with a compound that bears both
an acetylene functionality and a leaving group that is suitable for reaction with the nucleophilic
group on the PEG. When the PEG polymer bearing the nucleophilic moiety and the molecule
bearing the leaving group are combined, the leaving group undergoes a nucleophilic
displacement and is replaced by the nucleophilic moiety, affording the desired acetylene
containing polymer: X-PEG-Nu+L-A-C-+X-PEG-Nu-A-C=CR'.
[00240]     As shown, a preferred polymer backbone for use in the reaction has the formula X
PEG-Nu, wherein PEG is poly(ethylene glycol), Nu is a nucleophilic moiety and X is a
functional group that does not react with Nu, L or the acetylene functionality.
[00241]     Examples of Nu include, but are not limited to, amine, alkoxy, aryloxy, sulfhydryl,
imino, carboxylate, hydrazide, aminoxy groups that would react primarily via a SN2-type
mechanism. Additional examples of Nu groups include those functional groups that would
react primarily via an nucleophilic addition reaction. Examples of L groups include chloride,
bromide, iodide, mesylate, tresylate, and tosylate and other groups expected to undergo
nucleophilic displacement as well as ketones, aldehydes, thioesters, olefins, alpha-beta
unsaturated carbonyl groups, carbonates and other electrophilic groups expected to undergo
addition by nucleophiles.
                                                 73

[00242]      In another embodiment, A is an aliphatic linker of between 1-10 carbon atoms or a
substituted aryl ring of between 6-14 carbon atoms. X is a functional group which does not
react with alkynyl groups and L is a suitable leaving group.
[00243]      In another method for preparation of the acetylene-containing polymer derivatives,
a PEG polymer having an average molecular weight from about 800 Da to about 100,000 Da,
bearing either a protected functional group or a capping agent at one terminus and a suitable
leaving group at the other terminus is contacted by an acetylene anion.
[00244]      Water soluble polymers can be linked to the polypeptides. The water soluble
polymers may be linked via a non-naturally encoded amino acid incorporated in the
polypeptides or any functional group or substituent of a non-naturally encoded or naturally
encoded amino acid, or any functional group or substituent added to a non-naturally encoded
or naturally encoded amino acid. In an embodiment, the non-naturally encoded amino acid is a
modified amino acid as described herein. Alternatively, the water soluble polymers are linked
to an antigen-binding antibody incorporating a non-naturally encoded amino acid via a
naturally-occurring amino acid (including but not limited to, cysteine, lysine or the amine
group of the N-terminal residue). In some cases, the polypeptides comprise 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10 modified amino acids, wherein one or more non-naturally-encoded amino acid(s) are
linked to water soluble polymer(s) (including but not limited to, PEG and/or oligosaccharides).
In some cases, the polypeptides further comprise 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more naturally
encoded amino acid(s) linked to water soluble polymers. In some cases, the polypeptides
comprise one or more non-naturally encoded amino acid(s) linked to water soluble polymers
and one or more naturally-occurring amino acids linked to water soluble polymers. In some
embodiments, the water soluble polymers enhance the serum half-life of the polypeptides
relative to the unconjugated form.
[00245]      The number of water soluble polymers linked to a polypeptide (i.e., the extent of
PEGylation or glycosylation) can be adjusted to provide an altered (including but not limited
to, increased or decreased) pharmacologic, pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic
characteristic such as in vivo half-life. In some embodiments, the half-life of a polypeptide is
increased at least about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 percent, 2-fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 50
fold, or at least about 100-fold over an unmodified polypeptide.
[00246]      In one embodiment, a polypeptide comprising a carbonyl-containing non-naturally
encoded amino acid is modified with a PEG derivative that contains a terminal hydrazine,
                                                 74

hydroxylamine, hydrazide or semicarbazide moiety that is linked directly to the PEG
backbone.
[00247]     In some embodiments, the hydroxylamine-terminal PEG derivative will have the
structure: RO-(CH2CH20),-O-(CH2)m-0-NH2 where R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl,
propyl, etc.), m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000 (i.e., average molecular weight is between 5-40
kDa).
[00248]     In some embodiments, the hydrazine- or hydrazide-containing PEG derivative will
have the structure: RO-(CH2CH20),-O-(CH2)m-X-NH-NH2 where R is a simple alkyl
(methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000 and X is optionally a carbonyl group
(C=O) that can be present or absent.
[00249]     In some embodiments, the semicarbazide-containing PEG derivative will have the
structure: RO-(CH2CH20),-O-(CH2)m-NH-C(O)-NH-NH2 where R is a simple alkyl
(methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000.
[00250]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide comprising a carbonyl-containing amino acid
is modified with a PEG derivative that contains a terminal hydroxylamine, hydrazide,
hydrazine, or semicarbazide moiety that is linked to the PEG backbone by means of an amide
linkage.
[00251]     In some embodiments, the hydroxylamine-terminal PEG derivatives have the
structure: RO-(CH2CH20),-O-(CH2)2-NH-C(O)(CH2)m-0-NH2 where R is a simple alkyl
(methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000 (i.e., average molecular weight is
between 5-40 kDa).
[00252]     In some embodiments, the hydrazine- or hydrazide-containing PEG derivatives
have the structure: RO-(CH 2CH 20)n-O-(CH 2) 2-NH-C(O)(CH 2)m-X-NH-NH 2 where R is a
simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10, n is 100-1,000 and X is optionally a
carbonyl group (C=O) that can be present or absent.
[00253]     In some embodiments, the semicarbazide-containing PEG derivatives have the
structure: RO-(CH 2CH 20)n-O-(CH 2 )2-NH-C(O)(CH 2)m-NH-C(O)-NH-NH               2 where R is a
simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000.
[00254]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide comprising a carbonyl-containing amino acid
is modified with a branched PEG derivative that contains a terminal hydrazine, hydroxylamine,
hydrazide or semicarbazide moiety, with each chain of the branched PEG having a MW
ranging from 10-40 kDa and, more preferably, from 5-20 kDa.
                                                  75

[00255]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide comprising a non-naturally encoded amino
acid is modified with a PEG derivative having a branched structure. For instance, in some
embodiments, the hydrazine- or hydrazide-terminal PEG derivative will have the following
structure: [RO-(CH2CH20)n-O-(CH2)2-NH-C(O)]2CH(CH2)m-X-NH-NH2 where R is a
simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000, and X is optionally a
carbonyl group (C=O) that can be present or absent.
[00256]     In some embodiments, the PEG derivatives containing a semicarbazide group will
have the structure: [RO-(CH2CH20)n-O-(CH2)2-C(O)-NH-CH2-CH2]2CH-X-(CH2)m-NH
C(O)-NH-NH 2 where R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), X is optionally NH, 0,
S, C(O) or not present, m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000.
[00257]     In some embodiments, the PEG derivatives containing a hydroxylamine group will
have the structure: [RO-(CH2CH20)n-O-(CH2)2-C(O)-NH-CH2-CH2]2CH-X-(CH2)m-0
NH 2 where R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), X is optionally NH, 0, S, C(O) or
not present, m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000.
[00258]     The degree and sites at which water soluble polymer(s) are linked to the
polypeptides can modulate the binding of the polypeptides to an antigen or receptor.
[00259]     Methods and chemical properties for activation of polymers as well as for
conjugation of peptides are described in the literature and are known in the art. Commonly
used methods for activation of polymers include, but are not limited to, activation of functional
groups with cyanogen bromide, periodate, glutaraldehyde, biepoxides, epichlorohydrin,
divinylsulfone, carbodiimide, sulfonyl halides, trichlorotriazine, etc. (see, R. F. Taylor, (1991),
PROTEIN IMMOBILISATION. FUNDAMENTAL AND APPLICATIONS, Marcel Dekker,
N.Y.; S. S. Wong, (1992), CHEMISTRY OF PROTEIN CONJUGATION AND
CROSSLINKING, CRC Press, Boca Raton; G. T. Hermanson et al., (1993), IMMOBILIZED
AFFINITY LIGAND TECHNIQUES, Academic Press, N.Y.; Dunn, R. L., et al., Eds.
POLYMERIC DRUGS AND DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS, ACS Symposium Series Vol.
469, American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C. 1991).
[00260]     Several reviews and monographs on the functionalization and conjugation of PEG
are available. See, for example, Harris, Macronol. Chem. Phys. C25: 325-373 (1985); Scouten,
Methods in Enzymology 135: 30-65 (1987); Wong et al., Enzyme Microb. Technol. 14: 866
874 (1992); Delgado et al., Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems 9: 249-304
(1992); Zalipsky, Bioconjugate Chem. 6: 150-165 (1995).
                                                 76

[00261]      Methods for activation of polymers can also be found in WO 94/17039, U.S. Pat.
No. 5,324,844, WO 94/18247, WO 94/04193, U.S. Pat. No. 5,219,564, U.S. Pat. No.
5,122,614, WO 90/13540, U.S. Pat. No. 5,281,698, and WO 93/15189, and for conjugation
between activated polymers and enzymes including but not limited to Coagulation Factor VIII
(WO 94/15625), hemoglobin (WO 94/09027), oxygen carrying molecule (U.S. Pat. No.
4,412,989), ribonuclease and superoxide dismutase (Veronese at al., App. Biochem. Biotech.
11: 141-45 (1985)). All references and patents cited herein are incorporated by reference in
their entireties.
[00262]      PEGylation (i.e., addition of any water soluble polymer) of polypeptides containing
a non-naturally encoded amino acid, such as p-azido-L-phenylalanine, is carried out by any
convenient method. For example, a polypeptide is PEGylated with an alkyne-terminated
mPEG derivative. Briefly, an excess of solid mPEG(5000)-O-CH 2-CECH is added, with
stirring, to an aqueous solution of p-azido-L-Phe-containing polypeptide at room temperature.
Typically, the aqueous solution is buffered with a buffer having a pKa near the pH at which the
reaction is to be carried out (generally about pH 4-10). Examples of suitable buffers for
PEGylation at pH 7.5, for instance, include, but are not limited to, HEPES, phosphate, borate,
TRIS-HCl, EPPS, and TES. The pH is continuously monitored and adjusted if necessary. The
reaction is typically allowed to continue for between about 1-48 hours.
[00263]      The reaction products are subsequently subjected to hydrophobic interaction
chromatography to separate the PEGylated polypeptide variants from free mPEG(5000)-O
CH 2-C-CH and any high-molecular weight complexes of the pegylated polypeptide which
may form when unblocked PEG is activated at both ends of the molecule, thereby crosslinking
polypeptide variant molecules. The conditions during hydrophobic interaction chromatography
are such that free mPEG(5000)-O-CH 2-CECH flows through the column, while any
crosslinked PEGylated polypeptide variant complexes elute after the desired forms, which
contain one polypeptide variant molecule conjugated to one or more PEG groups. Suitable
conditions vary depending on the relative sizes of the cross-linked complexes versus the
desired conjugates and are readily determined by those skilled in the art. The eluent containing
the desired conjugates is concentrated by ultrafiltration and desalted by diafiltration.
[00264]      If necessary, the PEGylated polypeptide obtained from the hydrophobic
chromatography can be purified further by one or more procedures known to those skilled in
the art including, but are not limited to, affinity chromatography; anion- or cation-exchange
chromatography (using, including but not limited to, DEAE SEPHAROSE); chromatography
                                                   77

on silica; reverse phase HPLC; gel filtration (using, including but not limited to, SEPHADEX
G-75); hydrophobic interaction chromatography; size-exclusion chromatography, metal
chelate chromatography; ultrafiltration/diafiltration; ethanol precipitation; ammonium sulfate
precipitation; chromatofocusing; displacement chromatography; electrophoretic procedures
(including but not limited to preparative isoelectric focusing), differential solubility (including
but not limited to ammonium sulfate precipitation), or extraction. Apparent molecular weight
may be estimated by GPC by comparison to globular protein standards (PROTEIN
PURIFICATION METHODS, A PRACTICAL APPROACH (Harris & Angal, Eds.) IRL
Press 1989, 293-306). The purity of the polypeptide-PEG conjugate can be assessed by
proteolytic degradation (including but not limited to, trypsin cleavage) followed by mass
spectrometry analysis. Pepinsky B., et al., J. Pharmcol. & Exp. Ther. 297(3):1059-66 (2001).
[00265]      A water soluble polymer linked to an amino acid of a polypeptide can be further
derivatized or substituted without limitation.
[00266]      In another embodiment, a polypeptide is modified with a PEG derivative that
contains an azide moiety that will react with an alkyne moiety present on the side chain of the
non-naturally encoded amino acid. In general, the PEG derivatives will have an average
molecular weight ranging from 1-100 kDa and, in some embodiments, from 10-40 kDa.
[00267]      In some embodiments, the azide-terminal PEG derivative will have the structure:
RO-(CH 2 CH 2 O)n-O-(CH 2)m-N 3 where R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2
10 and n is 100-1,000 (i.e., average molecular weight is between 5-40 kDa).
[00268]      In another embodiment, the azide-terminal PEG derivative will have the structure:
RO-(CH 2 CH 2 0)n-O-(CH 2)m-NH-C(O)-(CH 2)p-N 3, where R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl,
propyl, etc.), m is 2-10, p is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000 (i.e., average molecular weight is between
5-40 kDa).
[00269]      In another embodiment, a polypeptide comprising an alkyne-containing amino acid
is modified with a branched PEG derivative that contains a terminal azide moiety, with each
chain of the branched PEG having a MW ranging from 10-40 kDa and, more preferably, from
5-20 kDa. For instance, in some embodiments, the azide-terminal PEG derivative will have the
following structure: [RO-(CH 2 CH 2 0)n-O-(CH 2) 2-NH-C(O)]       2CH(CH 2)m-X-(CH 2)p-N 3     where
R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10, p is 2-10, and n is 100-1,000, and X
is optionally an 0, N, S or carbonyl group (C=O), in each case that can be present or absent.
                                                  78

[00270]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide is modified with a PEG derivative that
contains an alkyne moiety that will react with an azide moiety present on the side chain of the
non-naturally encoded amino acid, such as a modified amino acid described herein.
[00271]     In some embodiments, the alkyne-terminal PEG derivative will have the following
structure: RO-(CH 2CH 2O)n-O-(CH 2 )m-C=CH where R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl,
propyl, etc.), m is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000 (i.e., average molecular weight is between 5-40
kDa).
[00272]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide comprising an alkyne-containing non
naturally encoded amino acid is modified with a PEG derivative that contains a terminal azide
or terminal alkyne moiety that is linked to the PEG backbone by means of an amide linkage.
[00273]     In some embodiments, the alkyne-terminal PEG derivative will have the following
structure: RO-(CH 2CH 20)n-O-(CH 2 )m-NH-C(O)-(CH 2)p-CECH where R is a simple alkyl
(methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10, p is 2-10 and n is 100-1,000.
[00274]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide comprising an azide-containing amino acid is
modified with a branched PEG derivative that contains a terminal alkyne moiety, with each
chain of the branched PEG having a MW ranging from 10-40 kDa and, more preferably, from
5-20 kDa. For instance, in some embodiments, the alkyne-terminal PEG derivative will have
the following structure: [RO-(CH 2 CH 20)n-O-(CH 2) 2-NH-C(O)]       2CH(CH 2)m-X-(CH 2)pC=CH
where R is a simple alkyl (methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc.), m is 2-10, p is 2-10, and n is 100-1,000,
and X is optionally an 0, N, S or carbonyl group (C=O), or not present.
[00275]     In another embodiment, a polypeptide is modified with a PEG derivative that
contains an activated functional group (including but not limited to, ester, carbonate) further
comprising an aryl phosphine group that will react with an azide moiety present on the side
chain of the non-naturally encoded amino acid. In general, the PEG derivatives will have an
average molecular weight ranging from 1-100 kDa and, in some embodiments, from 10-40
kDa.
[00276]     Other exemplary PEG molecules that may be linked to polypeptides, as well as
PEGylation methods include those described in, e.g., U.S. Patent Publication Nos.
2004/0001838; 2002/0052009; 2003/0162949; 2004/0013637; 2003/0228274; 2003/0220447;
2003/0158333; 2003/0143596; 2003/0114647; 2003/0105275; 2003/0105224; 2003/0023023;
2002/0156047; 2002/0099133; 2002/0086939; 2002/0082345; 2002/0072573; 2002/0052430;
2002/0040076; 2002/0037949; 2002/0002250; 2001/0056171; 2001/0044526; 2001/0027217;
                                                  79

2001/0021763; U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,646,110; 5,824,778; 5,476,653; 5,219,564; 5,629,384;
5,736,625; 4,902,502; 5,281,698; 5,122,614; 5,473,034; 5,516,673; 5,382,657; 6,552,167;
6,610,281; 6,515,100; 6,461,603; 6,436,386; 6,214,966; 5,990,237; 5,900,461; 5,739,208;
5,672,662; 5,446,090; 5,808,096; 5,612,460; 5,324,844; 5,252,714; 6,420,339; 6,201,072;
6,451,346; 6,306,821; 5,559,213; 5,612,460; 5,747,646; 5,834,594; 5,849,860; 5,980,948;
6,004,573; 6,129,912; WO 97/32607, EP 229,108, EP 402,378, WO 92/16555, WO 94/04193,
WO 94/14758, WO 94/17039, WO 94/18247, WO 94/28024, WO 95/00162, WO 95/11924,
W095/13090, WO 95/33490, WO 96/00080, WO 97/18832, WO 98/41562, WO 98/48837,
WO 99/32134, WO 99/32139, WO 99/32140, WO 96/40791, WO 98/32466, WO 95/06058,
EP 439 508, WO 97/03106, WO 96/21469, WO 95/13312, EP 921 131,, WO 98/05363, EP
809 996, WO 96/41813, WO 96/07670, EP 605 963, EP 510 356, EP 400 472, EP 183 503 and
EP 154 316, which are incorporated by reference herein. Any of the PEG molecules described
herein may be used in any form, including but not limited to, single chain, branched chain,
multiarm chain, single functional, bi-functional, multi-functional, or any combination thereof.
[00277]     In certain embodiments, the polypeptides can be linked to the payloads with one or
more linkers capable of reacting with the modified amino acid. The one or more linkers can be
any linkers apparent to those of skill in the art. The term "linker" is used herein to refer to
groups or bonds that normally are formed as the result of a chemical reaction and typically are
covalent linkages. Hydrolytically stable linkages means that the linkages are substantially
stable in water and do not react with water at useful pH values, including but not limited to,
under physiological conditions for an extended period of time, perhaps even indefinitely.
Hydrolytically unstable or degradable linkages mean that the linkages are degradable in water
or in aqueous solutions, including for example, blood. Enzymatically unstable or degradable
linkages mean that the linkage can be degraded by one or more enzymes. As understood in the
art, PEG and related polymers may include degradable linkages in the polymer backbone or in
the linker group between the polymer backbone and one or more of the terminal functional
groups of the polymer molecule. For example, ester linkages formed by the reaction of PEG
carboxylic acids or activated PEG carboxylic acids with alcohol groups on a biologically active
agent generally hydrolyze under physiological conditions to release the agent. Other
hydrolytically degradable linkages include, but are not limited to, carbonate linkages; imine
linkages resulted from reaction of an amine and an aldehyde; phosphate ester linkages formed
by reacting an alcohol with a phosphate group; hydrazone linkages which are reaction product
of a hydrazide and an aldehyde; acetal linkages that are the reaction product of an aldehyde and
an alcohol; orthoester linkages that are the reaction product of a formate and an alcohol;
                                                  80

peptide linkages formed by an amine group, including but not limited to, at an end of a
polymer such as PEG, and a carboxyl group of a peptide; and oligonucleotide linkages formed
by a phosphoramidite group, including but not limited to, at the end of a polymer, and a 5'
hydroxyl group of an oligonucleotide. Branched linkers may be used in polypeptides. A
number of different cleavable linkers are known to those of skill in the art. See U.S. Pat. Nos.
4,618,492; 4,542,225, and 4,625,014. The mechanisms for release of an agent from these linker
groups include, for example, irradiation of a photolabile bond and acid-catalyzed hydrolysis.
U.S. Pat. No. 4,671,958, for example, includes a description of immunoconjugates comprising
linkers which are cleaved at the target site in vivo by the proteolytic enzymes of the patient's
complement system. The length of the linker may be predetermined or selected depending
upon a desired spatial relationship between the polypeptide and the molecule linked to it. In
view of the large number of methods that have been reported for attaching a variety of
radiodiagnostic compounds, radiotherapeutic compounds, drugs, toxins, and other agents to
polypeptides one skilled in the art will be able to determine a suitable method for attaching a
given agent to a polypeptide.
[00278]     Any hetero- or homo-bifunctional linker can be used to link the conjugates. The
linker may have a wide range of molecular weight or molecular length. Larger or smaller
molecular weight linkers may be used to provide a desired spatial relationship or conformation
between the polypeptide and the linked entity. Linkers having longer or shorter molecular
length may also be used to provide a desired space or flexibility between the polypeptide and
the linked entity. Similarly, a linker having a particular shape or conformation may be utilized
to impart a particular shape or conformation to the polypeptide or the linked entity, either
before or after the polypeptide reaches its target. The functional groups present on each end of
the linker may be selected to modulate the release of a polypeptide or a payload under desired
conditions. This optimization of the spatial relationship between the polypeptide and the linked
entity may provide new, modulated, or desired properties to the molecule.
[00279]     In some embodiments, provided herein water-soluble bifunctional linkers that have
a dumbbell structure that includes: a) an azide, an alkyne, a hydrazine, a hydrazide, a
hydroxylamine, or a carbonyl-containing moiety on at least a first end of a polymer backbone;
and b) at least a second functional group on a second end of the polymer backbone. The second
functional group can be the same or different as the first functional group. The second
functional group, in some embodiments, is not reactive with the first functional group. In some
embodiments, water-soluble compounds that comprise at least one arm of a branched
                                                 81

molecular structure are provided. For example, the branched molecular structure can be a
dendritic structure.
        Polypeptide Compositions
[00280]     Polypeptides described herein can be formulated into compositions using methods
available in the art and those disclosed herein. Any of the compounds disclosed herein can be
provided in the appropriate pharmaceutical composition and be administered by a suitable
route of administration.
[00281]     In certain embodiments, the polypeptide compositions provided herein further
comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a diluent, excipient, or
vehicle with which the pharmaceutical composition is administered. Such pharmaceutical
carriers can be sterile liquids, such as water and oils, including those of petroleum, animal,
vegetable or synthetic origin, such as peanut oil, soybean oil, mineral oil, sesame oil and the
like. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as
liquid carriers, particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical excipients include
starch, glucose, lactose, sucrose, gelatin, malt, rice, flour, chalk, silica gel, sodium stearate,
glycerol monostearate, talc, sodium chloride, dried skim milk, glycerol, propylene, glycol,
water, ethanol and the like. The composition, if desired, can also contain minor amounts of
wetting or emulsifying agents, or pH buffering agents. These compositions can take the form
of solutions, suspensions, emulsion, tablets, pills, capsules, powders, sustained-release
formulations and the like. Oral formulation can include standard carriers such as
pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine,
cellulose, magnesium carbonate, etc. Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are
described in E.W. Martin, 1990, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Co.
[00282]     In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is provided in a form
suitable for administration to a human subject. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition will contain a prophylactically or therapeutically effective amount of the
polypeptide together with a suitable amount of carrier so as to provide the form for proper
administration to the patient. The formulation should suit the mode of administration.
[00283]     In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is provided in a form
suitable for intravenous administration. Typically, compositions suitable for intravenous
administration are solutions in sterile isotonic aqueous buffer. Where necessary, the
composition may also include a solubilizing agent and a local anesthetic such as lignocaine to
                                                   82

ease pain at the site of the injection. Such compositions, however, may be administered by a
route other than intravenous administration.
[00284]     In particular embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is suitable for
subcutaneous administration. In particular embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is
suitable for intramuscular administration.
[00285]     Components of the pharmaceutical composition can be supplied either separately or
mixed together in unit dosage form, for example, as a dry lyophilized powder or water free
concentrate. Where the composition is to be administered by infusion, it can be dispensed with
an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the
composition is administered by injection, an ample of sterile water for injection or saline can
be provided so that the ingredients may be mixed prior to administration.
[00286]     In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is supplied as a dry
sterilized lyophilized powder that is capable of being reconstituted to the appropriate
concentration for administration to a subject. In some embodiments, polypeptides are supplied
as a water free concentrate. In some embodiments, the polypeptide is supplied as a dry sterile
lyophilized powder at a unit dosage of at least 0.5 mg, at least 1 mg, at least 2 mg, at least 3
mg, at least 5 mg, at least 10 mg, at least 15 mg, at least 25 mg, at least 30 mg, at least 35 mg,
at least 45 mg, at least 50 mg, at least 60 mg, or at least 75 mg.
[00287]     In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is supplied in liquid form.
In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is provided in liquid form and is
substantially free of surfactants and/or inorganic salts. In some embodiments, the polypeptide
is supplied as in liquid form at a unit dosage of at least 0.1 mg/ml, at least 0.5 mg/ml, at least 1
mg/ml, at least 2.5 mg/ml, at least 3 mg/ml, at least 5 mg/ml, at least 8 mg/ml, at least 10
mg/ml, at least 15 mg/ml, at least 25 mg/ml, at least 30 mg/ml, or at least 60 mg/ml.
[00288]     In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is formulated as a salt form.
Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those formed with anions such as those derived from
hydrochloric, phosphoric, acetic, oxalic, tartaric acids, etc., and those formed with cations such
as those derived from sodium, potassium, ammonium, calcium, ferric hydroxides,
isopropylamine, triethylamine, 2-ethylamino ethanol, histidine, procaine, etc.
[00289]     In therapeutic use, the practitioner will determine the posology most appropriate
according to a preventive or curative treatment and according to the age, weight, stage of the
infection and other factors specific to the subject to be treated. In certain embodiments, doses
                                                 83

are from about 1 to about 1000 mg per day for an adult, or from about 5 to about 250 mg per
day or from about 10 to 50 mg per day for an adult. In certain embodiments, doses are from
about 5 to about 400 mg per day or 25 to 200 mg per day per adult. In certain embodiments,
dose rates of from about 50 to about 500 mg per day are also contemplated.
         Methods of Usefor Therapy or Prophylaxis
 [00290]     Certain polypeptides provided herein can be used for the treatment or prevention of
any disease or condition deemed suitable to the practitioner of skill in the art. Generally, a
method of treatment or prevention encompasses the administration of a therapeutically or
prophylactically effective amount of the polypeptide or polypeptide composition to a subject in
need thereof to treat or prevent the disease or condition.
 [00291]     A therapeutically effective amount of the polypeptide or composition is an amount
that is effective to reduce the severity, the duration and/or the symptoms of a particular disease
or condition. The amount of the polypeptide or composition that will be therapeutically
effective in the prevention, management, treatment and/or amelioration of a particular disease
can be determined by standard clinical techniques. The precise amount of the polypeptide or
composition to be administered with depend, in part, on the route of administration, the
seriousness of the particular disease or condition, and should be decided according to the
judgment of the practitioner and each subject's circumstances.
 [00292]     In some embodiments, the effective amount of the polypeptide provided herein is
between about 0.025 mg/kg and about 1000 mg/kg body weight of a human subject. In certain
embodiments, the polypeptide is administered to a human subject at an amount of about 1000
mg/kg body weight or less, about 950 mg/kg body weight or less, about 900 mg/kg body
weight or less, about 850 mg/kg body weight or less, about 800 mg/kg body weight or less,
about 750 mg/kg body weight or less, about 700 mg/kg body weight or less, about 650 mg/kg
body weight or less, about 600 mg/kg body weight or less, about 550 mg/kg body weight or
less, about 500 mg/kg body weight or less, about 450 mg/kg body weight or less, about 400
mg/kg body weight or less, about 350 mg/kg body weight or less, about 300 mg/kg body
weight or less, about 250 mg/kg body weight or less, about 200 mg/kg body weight or less,
about 150 mg/kg body weight or less, about 100 mg/kg body weight or less, about 95 mg/kg
body weight or less, about 90 mg/kg body weight or less, about 85 mg/kg body weight or less,
about 80 mg/kg body weight or less, about 75 mg/kg body weight or less, about 70 mg/kg body
weight or less, or about 65 mg/kg body weight or less.
                                                  84

[00293]      In some embodiments, the effective amount of polypeptide provided herein is
between about 0.025 mg/kg and about 60 mg/kg body weight of a human subject. In some
embodiments, the effective amount of a polypeptide of the pharmaceutical composition
provided herein is about 0.025 mg/kg or less, about 0.05 mg/kg or less, about 0.10 mg/kg or
less, about 0.20 mg/kg or less, about 0.40 mg/kg or less, about 0.80 mg/kg or less, about 1.0
mg/kg or less, about 1.5 mg/kg or less, about 3 mg/kg or less, about 5 mg/kg or less, about 10
mg/kg or less, about 15 mg/kg or less, about 20 mg/kg or less, about 25 mg/kg or less, about 30
mg/kg or less, about 35 mg/kg or less, about 40 mg/kg or less, about 45 mg/kg or less, about 50
mg/kg or about 60 mg/kg or less.
[00294]      The pharmaceutical composition of the method can be administered using any
method known to those skilled in the art. For example, the pharmaceutical composition can be
administered intramuscularly, intradermally, intraperitoneally, intravenously, subcutaneously
administration, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition is administered subcutaneously. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered intravenously. In some embodiments, the composition is administered
intramuscularly.
         Methods of Usefor Detection or Diagnosis
[00295]      The polypeptides provided herein can be used for the detection of any target or for
the diagnosis of any disease or condition deemed suitable to the practitioner of skill in the art.
The methods encompass detecting the binding of a polypeptide to a target in an appropriate
location, e.g., the appropriate body, tissue, or cell. In the methods, the formation of a complex
between the polypeptide and target can be detected by any method known to those of skill in
the art. Examples include assays that use secondary reagents for detection, ELISA's and
immunoprecipitation and agglutination assays. A detailed description of these assays is, for
example, given in Harlow and Lane, Polypeptides: A Laboratory Manual (Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory, New York 1988 555-612, W096/13590 to Maertens and Stuyver, Zrein et al.
(1998) and W096/29605.
[00296]      For in situ diagnosis, the polypeptide may be administered to a subject by methods
known in the art such as, for example, intravenous, intranasal, intraperitoneal, intracerebral,
intraarterial injection such that a specific binding between a polypeptide with an eptitopic
region on the amyloid protein may occur. The polypeptide/target complex may conveniently be
detected through a label attached to the polypeptide or any other art-known method of
detection.
                                                  85

[00297]      Further provided herein are kits for detection or diagnosis. Exemplary kits
comprise one or more polypeptides provided herein along with one or more reagents useful for
detecting a complex between the one or more polypeptides and their targets.
        Preparationof Polypeptides Comprising a Modified Amino Acid
[00298]      The polypeptides described herein can be prepared by any technique apparent to
those of skill in the art without limitation. Useful techniques for preparation include in vivo
synthesis, for example with modified tRNA and tRNA synthetase, cell-free synthesis, for
example with modified tRNA and tRNA synthetase, solid phase polypeptide synthesis and
liquid phase polypeptide synthesis. Exemplary techniques are described in this section and in
the examples herein. In particular embodiments, the polypeptide is an antibody or antibody
fragment.
[00299]      In certain methods, the polypeptide is translated and/or transcribed from one or
more polynucleotides encoding the polypeptide. Accordingly, provided herein are
polynucleotides capable of encoding the polypeptides having one or more modified amino
acids at site-specific positions in one or more polypeptide chains. In certain embodiments, the
polynucleotides comprise a codon not normally associated with an amino acid at the
polynucleotide position corresponding to the site-specific polypeptide position for the modified
amino acid. Examples of such codons include stop codons, 4 bp codons, 5 bp codons, and the
like. The reaction mixture typically comprises a tRNA synthetase capable of making tRNAs
that complement (suppress) said codon. These suppressor tRNAs are linked to the modified
amino acids to facilitate their incorporation into the polypeptide at the site of the suppressor
codon.
[00300]      The polypeptides can be prepared by techniques known to those of skill in the art
for expressing polynucleotides to incorporate modified amino acids into site specific positions
of a polypeptide. Such techniques are described, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 7,045,337
and 7,083,970, in U.S. Published Patent Application Nos. US 2008/0317670, US
2009/0093405, US 2010/0093082, US 2010/0098630, US 2008/0085277 and in international
patent publication nos. WO 2004/016778 Al and WO 2008/066583 A2, the contents of which
are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[00301]      In certain embodiments, a polypeptide can be prepared in a cell-free reaction
mixture comprising at least one orthogonal tRNA aminoacylated with a modified amino acid,
where the orthogonal tRNA base pairs with a codon that is not normally associated with an
amino acid, e.g. a stop codon; a 4 bp codon, etc. The reaction mixture also comprises a tRNA
                                                 86

synthetase capable of aminoacylating the orthogonal tRNA with a modified amino acid. One
tRNA synthetase that can be used is shown as SEQ ID NO:55 and 56 in US Patent Publication
No. 2008/0233611. Wild-type tyrosyl m. janashciitRNA may also be used. Usually the
orthogonal tRNA synthetase, which is susceptible to degradation by proteases present in
bacterial cell extracts, is exogenously synthesized and added to the reaction mix prior to
initiation of polypeptide synthesis. The orthogonal tRNA may be synthesized in the bacterial
cells from which the cell extract is obtained, may be synthesized de novo during the
polypeptide synthesis reaction, or may be exogenously added to the reaction mix.
[00302]      In certain embodiments, components that affect modified amino acid insertion and
protein insertion or folding are optionally added to the reaction mixture. Such components
include elevated concentrations of translation factors to minimize the effect of release factor 1
and 2 and to further optimize orthogonal component concentrations. Protein chaperones (Dsb
System of oxidoreductases and isomerases, GroES, GroEL, DNAJ, DNAK, Skp, etc.) may be
exogenously added to the reaction mixture or may be overexpressed in the source cells used to
prepare the cell extract The reactions may utilize a large scale reactor, small scale, or may be
multiplexed to perform a plurality of simultaneous syntheses. Continuous reactions will use a
feed mechanism to introduce a flow of reagents, and may isolate the end-product as part of the
process. Batch systems are also of interest, where additional reagents may be introduced to
prolong the period of time for active synthesis. A reactor may be run in any mode such as
batch, extended batch, semi-batch, semi-continuous, fed-batch and continuous, and which will
be selected in accordance with the application purpose. The reactions may be of any volume,
either in a small scale, usually at least about 1 pl and not more than about 15 il, or in a scaled
up reaction, where the reaction volume is at least about 15 p, usually at least about 50 pl, more
usually at least about 100 pl, and may be 500 pL, 1000 pl, or greater. In principle, reactions
may be conducted at any scale as long as sufficient oxygen (or other electron acceptor) is
supplied when needed.
[00303]      Useful methods for synthesis where at least one modified amino acid is introduced
into the polypeptide strand during elongation include but are not limited to: (I) addition of
exogenous purified orthogonal synthetase, modified amino acid, and orthogonal tRNA to the
cell-free reaction, (II) addition of exogenous purified orthogonal synthetase and modified
amino acid to the reaction mixture, but with orthogonal tRNA transcribed during the cell-free
reaction, (III) addition of exogenous purified orthogonal synthetase and modified amino acid to
the reaction mixture, but with orthogonal tRNA synthesized by the cell extract source
                                                  87

organism. In certain embodiments, the orthogonal components are driven by regulatable
promoters, so that synthesis levels can be controlled although other measures may be used such
as controlling the level of the relevant DNA templates by addition or specific digestion.
[00304]      In certain embodiments, tRNA synthetase is exogenously synthesized and added to
the cell-free reaction mix. In certain embodiments, the reaction mix is prepared from bacterial
cells in which ompT has been inactivated or is naturally inactive. OmpT is believed to degrade
components of the reaction mixture including tRNA synthetase.
[00305]       In addition to the above components such as cell-free extract, genetic template, and
amino acids, materials specifically required for protein synthesis may be added to the reaction.
These materials include salts, folinic acid, cyclic AMP, inhibitors for protein or nucleic acid
degrading enzymes, inhibitors or regulators of protein synthesis, adjusters of
oxidation-reduction potential(s), non-denaturing surfactants, buffer components, spermine,
spermidine, putrescine, etc.
[00306]      The salts preferably include potassium, magnesium, and ammonium salts (e.g. of
acetic acid or glutamic acid). One or more of such salts may have an alternative amino acid as
a counter anion. There is an interdependence among ionic species for optimal concentration.
These ionic species are typically optimized with regard to protein production. When changing
the concentration of a particular component of the reaction medium, that of another component
may be changed accordingly. For example, the concentrations of several components such as
nucleotides and energy source compounds may be simultaneously adjusted in accordance with
the change in those of other components. Also, the concentration levels of components in the
reactor may be varied over time. The adjuster of oxidation-reduction potential may be
dithiothreitol, ascorbic acid, glutathione and/or their oxidized forms.
[00307]      In certain embodiments, the reaction can proceed in a dialysis mode, in a
diafiltration batch mode, in a fed-batch mode of in a semi-continuous operation mode. In
certain embodiments, a feed solution can be supplied to the reactor through a membrane or
through an injection unit. Synthesized polypeptide can accumulate in the reactor followed by
isolation or purification after completion of the system operation. Vesicles containing the
polypeptide may also be continuously isolated, for example by affinity adsorption from the
reaction mixture either in situ or in a circulation loop as the reaction fluid is pumped past the
adsorption matrix.
                                                  88

[00308]      During protein synthesis in the reactor, the protein isolating means for selectively
isolating the desired protein may include a unit packed with particles coated with polypeptide
molecules or other molecules for adsorbing the synthesized, desired protein. Preferably, the
protein isolating means comprises two columns for alternating use.
[00309]      The resulting polypeptide can be purified or isolated by standard techniques.
Exemplary techniques are provided in the examples herein.
         Assay Methods
[00310]      Polypeptides can be assayed for their expected activity, or for a new activity,
according to any assay apparent to those of skill in the art. The resulting polypeptide can be
assayed for activity in a functional assay or by quantitating the amount of protein present in a
non-functional assay, e.g. immunostaining, ELISA, quantitation on Coomasie or silver stained
gel, etc., and determining the ratio of biologically active protein to total protein.
[00311]      The amount of protein produced in a translation reaction can be measured in
various fashions. One method relies on the availability of an assay which measures the activity
of the particular protein being translated. An example of an assay for measuring protein
activity is a luciferase assay system, or chloramphenical acetyl transferase assay system. These
assays measure the amount of functionally active protein produced from the translation
reaction. Activity assays will not measure full length protein that is inactive due to improper
protein folding or lack of other post translational modifications necessary for protein activity.
[00312]      Another method of measuring the amount of protein produced in coupled in vitro
transcription and translation reactions is to perform the reactions using a known quantity of
                                   35
radiolabeled amino acid such as      S-methionine, 3H-leucine or 14C-leucine and subsequently
measuring the amount of radiolabeled amino acid incorporated into the newly translated
protein. Incorporation assays will measure the amount of radiolabeled amino acids in all
proteins produced in an in vitro translation reaction including truncated protein products. The
radiolabeled protein may be further separated on a protein gel, and by autoradiography
confirmed that the product is the proper size and that secondary protein products have not been
produced.
         Preparationof Modified Amino Acids
[00313]      The compounds provided herein can be prepared, isolated or obtained by any
method apparent to those of skill in the art. Compounds provided herein can be prepared
according to the General Preparation Scheme provided herein. Reaction conditions, steps and
                                                 89

reactants not provided in the General Preparation Scheme would be apparent to, and known by,
those skilled in the art.
                                          General Preparation Scheme la
                           cH                    ,OH              SOCI 2, DMF(cat.)         CI           NaN 3, DMF
     D                   AC20                  D                          CHCl 3          DN
 H2N       OMe      K2CO3, H20           AcHN         OMe         r.t., 8 h, 95% AcHN            OMe     60 *C, 14 h,
   HCi o           r.t., 1 h, 71%                 o                                          O                71%
       1                                          2                                            3
                                       LiOH              D'N3                       acylase            D'N3
            D' N3
     AcHN         OMe            THF/water AcHN                OH                 water, pH 7.8 H2 N         OH
                O                   r.t., 3 h,              0                      38 *C, 16 h,           0
                                 quantitative                                          46%
                4                                           5                                            6
                                          General Preparation Scheme lb
          W4 -OH                                      W4-OH                                      W4-OH
                                                  --              SOCI 2, DMF(cat.)
                         Ac20                                             CHCl 3                         NaN 3 , DMF
 H2N       OMe      K2CO3, H20           AcHN         OMe         r.t., 8 h, 95% AcHN            OMe     60 *C, 14 h,
        oI
        O          r.t., 1 h, 71%                 0                                          O                71%
       1                                          2                                            3
                  4-N3                                     W 4 -N  3
                                                                                                          W 4 -N  3
                                    LiOH                                          acylase
                  W~e                                         OH                                            OH
   AcHN                         THF/water AcHN                                 water, pH 7.8 H2 N
              O                  r.t., 3 h,               O                      38 *C, 16 h,           O
              4                quantitative                                          46%
                         45                                                                            6
[00314]     In General Preparation Scheme la, D is defined as described in the context of
formula I. In General Preparation Scheme 1b, W 4 is defined as described in the context of
formula II.
                                                     EXAMPLES
[00315]     As used herein, the symbols and conventions used in these processes, schemes and
examples, regardless of whether a particular abbreviation is specifically defined, are consistent
with those used in the contemporary scientific literature, for example, the Journal of Biological
Chemistry.
                                                          90

[00316]      For all of the following examples, standard work-up and purification methods
known to those skilled in the art can be utilized. Unless otherwise indicated, all temperatures
are expressed in 'C (degrees Centigrade). All methods are conducted at room temperature
unless otherwise noted.
                                                 Example 1
         Preparation of 2-Amino-3-(5-azidomethyl-pyridin-2-yl)-propionic                    Acid (1)
           |       OH                                     OH SOCl2, DMF(cat.)                    CI
           N              Ac20                   N'                  CHCl 3              N/       NaN 3 , DMF
 H2N       OMe      K2CO 3, H 20        AcHN     OMe         r.t., 8 h, 95% AcHN         OMe      60 *C, 14 h,
   ki   0           r.t., 1 h, 71%            O                                       O               71%
        Al                                    A2                                       A3
                n         N3                                   N3                                          N3
                N'                 LiOH                N'                 acylase                N
  AcHN          OMe           THF/water AcHN          OH                water, pH 7.8 H2 N       OH
             0                  r.t., 3 h,          O                    38 *C, 16 h,         0
                              quantitative                                   46%
             A4                                     A5                                       (1)
Preparation of compound A2
[00317]      Acetic anhydride (0.42 mL, 4.5 mmol, 1.1 eq) was slowly added a solution of Al
(HCl salt, 1.0 g, 4.1 mmol, 1 eq) and K 2 CO 3 (1.18 g, 8.6 mmol, 2.1 eq) in water (20 mL) at
room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The water
was removed on a rotovapor, and the residue was treated with methanol. The solid was
removed by filtration. The methanol solution was concentrated and the residue was purified by
FCC (MeOH/DCM            =  1/10) to provide acetamide A2 (0.73 g, 71%) as a white solid. LCMS
m/z: 253 (M+1).
Preparation of compound A3
[00318]      Thionyl chloride (0.32 mL, 4.3 mmol, 1.5 eq) was slowly added into a solution of
the acetamide A2 (0.73 g, 2.9 mmol, 1 eq) and DMF (22 pL, 0.29 mmol) in CHCl 3 (25 mL) at
room temperature. After 4 h, additional SOCl 2 (80 pL, 1.1 mmol) was added and the mixture
was stirred for another 4 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 3 (50 mL), and then
washed with saturated NaHCO 3 . The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 3 twice. The
combined organic layers were dried over MgSO 4 . The crude product A3 (0.74 g, 95%) was
directly used for next reaction. LCMS m/z: 271 (M+ 1).
                                                      91

Preparation of compound A4
[00319]     A mixture of the chloride A3 (1.33 g, 4.9 mmol, 1 eq), NaN3 (0.64 g, 9.8 mmol, 2
eq) and NaI (73 mg, 0.49 mmol, 0.1 eq) in DMF (20 mL) was stirred at 60 C for 15 h. The
reaction mixture was then concentrated to dryness. The crude product was purified by FCC
(EA) to afford the azido-product A4 (0.95 g, 71%). LCMS m/z: 278 (M+1).
Preparation of compound A5
[00320]     A mixture of the methyl ester A4 (0.95 g, 3.4 mmol, 1 eq) and LiOH-H 20 (0.29 g,
6.8 mmol, 2 eq) in THF/water (6 mL / 3 mL) was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The
reaction mixture was neutralized to pH 7 with 1 N HCl, and then concentrated to dryness. The
crude product A5 (~0.91 g, quantitative) was directly used for next reaction. LCMS m/z: 264
(M+1), 262 (M-1).
Preparation of compound (1)
[00321]     Acylase 1 (100 mg, Sigma, A3010, Grade I) was added into a solution of acetamide
A5 (0.91 g, 3.4 mmol) in water (60 mL). After pH of the solution was adjusted to 7.8 with 1 N
aqueous lithium hydroxide solution. The reaction mixture was stirred at 38 C for 16 h. Active
carbon (2 g) was added and the solution was stirred for 10 min. The mixture was filtered
through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was concentrated to around 20 mL, which was directly
used for purification by HPLC. Fractions containing pure product (1) were combined and
concentrated to dryness. The final sample was dried by lyophilization to afford amino-acid (1)
(0.35 g, 46%) as white powder. LCMS m/z: 222 (M+1), 220 (M-1). 'H NMR (300 MHz, D2 0)
6 8.36 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.26 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 4.36(s, 2H), 3.98 (dt, J= 2.7
and 6.5 Hz, 1H), 3.32-3.16 (m, 2H).
                                            Example 2
                                   Preparation of Compound (3)
            HO                             HO                           HO
                          Ac2O/Et3N             N    SOCl2/MeOH                  SOCl2/DMF/DCM
                          DCM, r.t             N-    r.t., overnight        N/Mr.t., 15h
                N                              N                            N
                   OH3O                                                    OMe
       H2N      OH                    AcHN     OH                  AcHN    Oe
        HCI  O                              O                            0
             P                              P1                           P2
                                                  92

                         CI                              N3                                     N3
                                                                    1. LiOH
                                      NaN 3/DMF                     2. Acylase/pH 7buffer,
                             N/       60 0C, 15h              N-    37 0 C, 48h                     N
                             OM'e                             OMe                                   O
                 AcHN                             AcHN        OMe                          H2N      OH
                          O                               0                                      0
                         P3                               P4                                      (3)
Generalprocedurefor preparationof compound (3)
                     HO                                     HO                                  HO
                                       Ac2 O/Et3N                N         SOCl 2/MeOH
                          N-            DCM, r.t                 N-        r.t., overnight
                          N                                      N                                  N
                              OH3O                                                                  OMe
                H2 N      OH                        AcHN         OH                      AcHN       OMe
                 HCI   O                                      O                                  O
                       P                                      P1                                 P2
[00322]     To a solution of pyridine substituted amino acid P (2 g, 8.6 mmol, 1.0 eq) in DCM
was added triethylamine (3 mL, 21.5 mmol, 2.5 eq). The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C
in ice-bath and acetic anhydride (0.974 mL, 10.3 mmol, 1.2 eq) was added dropwise over 5
min. The mixture was warm up to rt and stirred to for 3h. All solvents and volatile were
removed and the residue (crude P1) was dried on vacuum and used for next step without
further purification.
[00323]     The above crude P1 was dissolved in anhydrous methanol (20 mL) and cooled to
0C in ice-bath. Thionyl chloride (1.87 mL, 25.8 mmol, 3.0 eq) was added dropwise over 10
min. The mixture was warmed up to rt, and stirred overnight. The solvent was removed,
dissolved in ethyl acetate/ NaHCO 3 (3 x), dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to give crude
P2, which was purified by silica gel column (DCM:MeOH                     =    9:1) to give P2 (550 mg, 25%).
                     HO                                    C1                                      N3
                                  SOCl 2/DMF/DCM                           NaN 3/DMF                  I
                                                                               0
                         N_       r.t., 15h                    N/          60 C, 15h                    N
              AcHN       OMe                       AcHN        OMe                         AcHN         OMe
                      0                                     0                                       0
                      P2                                    P3                                      P4
[00324]     To a solution of P2 (550 mg, 2.18 mmol, 1.0 eq) in chloroform (1OmL) was added 2
drops of DMF. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C in ice-bath and thionyl chloride (634
pL, 8.72 mmol, 4 eq) was added dropwise over 5 min. The mixture was warmed to rt and
stirred overnight. The reaction was worked up with DCM/NaHCO 3 . The organic layer was
                                                        93

dried over Na2 SO4 and purified by silica gel column (DCM: MeOH                 =  9:1) to give product P3
(450 mg, 76%).
[00325]     To a solution of P3 (450 mg, 1.67 mmol, 1.0 eq) in DMF (1OmL) was added NaN3
(217 mg, 3.34 mmol, 2.0 eq) and Nal (25 mg, 0.167 mmol, 0.1 eq). The reaction mixture was
heated at 60 C overnight. The reaction was worked up with DCM/NaHCO 3 . The organic layer
was dried over Na 2 SO4 and purified by prep HPLC to give product P4 (400 mg, 86%).
                                   N3                                        N3
                                        N-     1. LiOH/MeOH, H2 0               I
                                       N       _      _    _   _N
                                       OMe     2. Acylase/pH 7 buffer,            OH
                           AcHN                370 C, 72h              H2N
                                     0                                        0
                                     P4                                      (3)
[00326]     To the solution of P4 (400 mg, 1.44 mmol, 1.0 eq) in MeOH (5 mL) was added
LiOH (303 mg, 7.2 mmol, 5 eq, in 5mL of H2 0). The reaction stirred at rt for 2h. The solvent
was removed and the residue directly used for next step without further purification.
[00327]     To a solution of the above residue in small amount of DMSO and 50 mM
NaH 2PO 4 -Na2HPO 4 buffer (20 mL) was added Acylase (100 mg) in 5 mL buffer. The mixture
was heated to 37'C for 72h. Charcoal (200 mg) was added into the reaction and stirred at rt for
10 min, filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by prep
HPLC to give product (3) (85 mg) as HCl salt. LC-MS (ESI): 222 (M+1), 220 (M-1). 'HNMR
(300 MHz, CD 3 OD) 6 8.50 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 1H), 8.17 (s, 1H), 7.33 (s, 1H), 7.27 (d, J= 5.4 Hz,
1H), 4.49 (s, 2H), 4.03 (m, 1H), 3.42 (dd, 1H, J= 3.6 and 12.0 Hz,1H), 3.27 (m, 2H).
                                                Example 3
                                       Preparation of compound (2)
                 OH                                       OH                              OH
                     SOCl 2/MeOH                                                       '     SOCl 2/DMF/DCM
             - N     r.t., overnight                -   N    Ac20/THF, r.t              N    r.t., 15h
                                           H2N     OMe                  AcHN         OMe
   H2N      OH
         0                                     0                                   0
         N                                      NI                                N2
                                                       94

                              C1                                     N3                                  N3
                                                                        1. LiOH
                                       NaN3/DMF                         2. Acylase/pH 7buffer,
                            N         60*C, 15h                 -N      37"C,48h                 1    N
             AcHN        OMe                       AcHN        OMe                       H2N       OH
                      0                                    0                                   0
                     N3                                   N4                                   (2)
Generalprocedurefor preparationof compound (2)
                           OH                                           OH                                 OH
                                 SOCl 2/MeOH                    1
                     -  N        r.t., overnight                  - N        Ac2 0/THF, r.t           - N
           H2N      OH                                H2N         OMe                   AcHN        OMe
                 0                                            00
                 N                                             NI                                N2
[00328]      To a solution of pyridine substituted amino acid N (2 g, 8.6 mmol, 1.0 eq) in
methanol (20 mL) at 0C was added thionyl chloride (1.25 mL, 17.82 mmol, 2.0 eq) dropwise
over 10 min. The mixture was stirred at rt overnight. The solvent was removed to give a
residue (crude N1), which was dried on vacuum and used for next step without further
purification.
[00329]      To a solution of crude N1 and triethylamine (4.8 mL, 34.4 mmol, 4.0 eq) in THF
(20 mL) at 0 C was added dropwise acetic anhydride (1.22 mL, 12.9 mmol, 1.5 eq) over 10
min. The mixture was stirred at rt for 3h. The reaction was diluted with DCM and washed with
NaHCO 3 (3x), dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and purified by silica gel column (DCM: MeOH                           = 9:1) to
give product N2 (1.0 g, 46%).
                              OH                                     C1                                 N3
                                      SOCl 2/DMF/DCM                       NaN 3/DMF
                            N         r.t., 15h                  - N       600C, 15h                N
                          OMe                                   OMe                               OMe
              AcHN                                   AcHN                              AcHN       OMe
                       o                                     0                                 O
                       N2                                   N3                                 N4
[00330]      To a solution of N2 (2 g, 7.94 mmol, 1.0 eq) in chloroform (20mL) was added 4
drops of DMF. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C in ice-bath and thionyl chloride (2.3
mL, 31.76 mmol, 4 eq) was added dropwise over 10 min. The mixture was stirred at rt
overnight. The reaction was worked up with DCM/NaHCO 3 . The organic layer was dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and purified by silica gel column (DCM: MeOH                    =  9:1) to give product N3 (1 g, 47%).
[00331]      To a solution of N3 (1 g, 3.7 mmol, 1.0 eq) in DMF (20mL) was added NaN3 (481
mg, 7.4 mmol, 2.0 eq) and Nal (55.5 mg, 0.37 mmol, 0.1 eq). The reaction mixture was heated
                                                          95

at 60 C in an oil-bath overnight. The reaction was diluted with DCM. The organic layer was
washed with NaHCO 3, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and purified by silica gel column (DCM:MeOH                          =
9:1) to give product N4 (1.8 g, 98%) as yellow oil.
                                          N3                                                 N3
                                       N        1. LiOH/MeOH, H20                        N
                                    OMe         2. Acylase/pH 7buffer,                 OH
                        AcHN                    37 0C,48h                  H2 N
                                 0                                                  O
                                 N4                                                (2)
[00332]      To a solution of N4 (1g, 3.6 mmol, 1.0 eq) in MeOH (20 mL) was added LiOH
(757 mg, 18 mmol, 5 eq, in 10 mL of water). The reaction stirred at r.t. for 2h. The solvent was
removed and the residue was directly used for next step without further purification.
[00333]      To a solution of the above residue in small DMSO and 50 mM NaH 2PO 4-Na2HPO 4
buffer (100 mL was added Acylase (100 mg). The mixture was heated to 37C for 48h.
Charcoal (200 mg) was added into the reaction mixture, and stirred at rt for10 min, filtered on
Celite. The filtrate was concentrated and recrystallized from MeOH to give product (2) (1.3 g).
LC-MS (ESI): 222 (M+1), 220 (M-1). 1HNMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 8.44 (s, 1H), 7.76 (d,
J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.44 (s, 2H), 3.45 (m, 1H), 2.98-3.12 (m, 2H), 3.27
(m, 2H).
[00334]
                                                   Example 4
                                    Preparation of compound (30)
                                                                     ICI
                  +    O      O       NEt 3                            MOMCI                              NaN 3
  CIN 3 H                 O          DCM      AcHN                     ZnCl 2          AcHN             Nal, DMF,
           0                                            0                                       0       60 C, 24h
          B1                                            B2                                      B3
                         N  N3                                  N3                                     N3
                            |      LiOH                                     Acylase                IO
                                                                                                    OH
           AcHN      O          THF/H 20     AcHN        OH              pH = 7.0         H2 N
                                                                         r.t., 48h               0
                  B4                                   B5                                        (30)
                                                        96

   Generalprocedurefor preparationof compound (30)
                         1                                     1                               1        C1
                               +    0   0      NEta                       MOMCI
                                               DCM   AcHN        O        ZnCl 2     AcHN        O
                     0                                        0                               0
                   BI                                         B2                              B3
   [00335]       To a solution of the Phe methyl ester B1 (50 g, 232 mmol, 1.0 eq) in DCM (300
   mL) was added triethylamine (81 mL, 580 mmol, 2.5 eq) at 0 C was added acetic anhydride
   (33 mL, 348 mmol, 1.5 eq) dropwise over 15 min. The mixture was stirred at rt for 3h. The
   reaction was washed with NaHCO 3 (2x), dried over Na 2 SO 4 and purified by silica gel column
   (DCM:MeOH          =   9:1) to give product B2 (50 g, 97%) as white solid.
   [00336]       A mixture of ester B2 (52 g, 0.235 mole, 1.0 eq), MOM-Cl (136 mL, 1.79 mole, 7.6
   eq) and ZnCl2 (128 g, 0.94 mole, 4.0 eq) was stirred at 6-8 C for 8h. After removing the
   volatile on rotavapor at 6-8'C, the residue was poured into ice-water and extracted with ethyl
   acetate (3x). The combined organic layers were washed with NaHCO 3 and dried over Na 2 SO 4 ,
   and concentrated to a small volume. Ether (50 mL) was then added. The ether solution was
   kept in a -20'C fridge overnight. The crystallized product was filtered and dried in vacuum to
   give product B3 (31 g, 49%) as white solid.
                  CI                             N3                              N3                       |  N3
                        NaN 3                         LiOH            F-              Acylase   _O
AcHN                 Nal, DMF,    AcHN              THF/H 2 0  AcHN                 pH = 7.0       H2 N
        0            60 "C, 24h           0                           O
        B3                               B4                           B5                                (30)
   [00337]       To a solution of B3 (20 g, 74.2 mmol, 1.0 eq) in DMF (1OOmL) was added NaN3
   (9.64 g, 148 mmol, 2.0 eq) and Nal (1.11g, 7.42 mmol, 0.1 eq). The reaction mixture was
   heated at 60 C in an oil-bath overnight. Solvent DMF was removed on a rotavapor, and the
   reaction mixture was dissolved in ethyl acetate, and washed with NaHCO 3 (3x), dried over
   Na 2 SO 4 , and purified by silica gel column (DCM:MeOH          =  9:1) to give product B4 (20.5 g, 100
   %) as yellow oil.
   [00338]       To a solution of B4 (20 g, 724 mmol, 1.0 eq) in a mixed solution of THF: MeOH:
   H20 (50 mL: 50 mL: 20mL) was added LiOH-H 20 (6.94 g, 144.8 mmol, 2 eq). The reaction
   was stirred at rt for 2h. Solvent was removed to give a residue, which was worked up with
   ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with IN HCl (3x), dried over Na 2SO 4 and
   concentrated to give product B5 (18.3 g, 96%) as yellow oil.
                                                         97

[00339] To a solution of above amide B5 (18 g, 68.7 mmol) in DMSO (20 mL) and 50 mM
NaH 2PO 4 -Na2HPO 4 buffer (1.8 L) was added acylase (1 g). the solution was heated at 37 C
for 48h. Charcoal (20 g) was added into the reaction mixture, and stirred at rt for 10 min,
filtered through Celite. The filtrate was washed with ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was
concentrated to a small volume, and product was precipitated out as white solid. The solid was
filtered and dried in vacuo to give product (30) (10 g, 66%) as white solid. LC-MS (ESI): 221
(M+1). 'HNMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 7.27 (br s, 4H), 4.37 (s, 2H), 3.43 (m, 2H), 3.17 (m,
1H), 2.84 (m, 1H).
                                                  Example 5
                                        Preparation of Compound (40)
 MeO                Br      DMSO, 40500,         MeO             N3   LiOH/MeOH    HON3
                                  NaN 3               O
                                                      A
                                                      JJ2
 BocHN                 NH2
                                              H           LiOH, r.t.                 H
                           BocHN
                              O               N-       N3 THF/MeOH/H 20   BocHN      N        N3
   NMM/isobutyl-CI/DCM          0                                             0 OH      O
                                           J3                                        J4
                                                  H
 4 N HCI in dioxane             H2N               N
                       020                                      N3
                                   0     OH
                                                 (40)
General procedure for preparation of compound (40)
 N3 MBr                            Nas           MO3N3LiOH/MeOH                    HON3
       o                                 0
                           DMSO, 40-50 C, 5h          0                               O
                                                      Ji                               J2
[00340] To a solution of J (10 g, 55.2 mmol, 1.0 eq) in DMSO (100 mL) was added sodium
azide (5.4 g, 82.8 mmol, 1.5 eq) in several portions with stirring. The mixture was heated at
40-50 C for 5h. After being cooled to rt, the mixture was diluted with water (200 mL), and
extracted with ether (3x). The combined organic layer was washed with brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to give product Ji (7.8 g, 98.7%) as oil.
                                                      98

[00341]      The above product J1 (7.8 g, 54.5 mmol) was suspended in a mixture of LiOH
(11.4 g, 274 mmol, 5.0 eq) in water (100 mL) and MeOH (20 mL). The mixture was allowed to
stirring at rt for lh diluted with water (200 mL), and extracted with ether (3x). The aqueous
layer was acidified with IN HCl to pH 2, and extracted with ether (3x). The combined organic
layers were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to give product J2 (7g, 100%) as oil.
                                                                                           H
              N3      +        BocHN          NH2       NMM/isobutyl-CI/DCM   BocH              N3
           0                          0                      r.t.                  0         0
    J2                               K                                                  J3
[00342]      To a solution of J2 (500 mg, 3.88 mmol, 1.0 eq) in DCM at 0 C was added N
methyl morphorline (NMM, 510 pL, 4.65 mmol, 1.2 eq) and isobutyl chloroformate (607 pL,
4.65 mmol, 1.2 eq). The mixture was stirred at rt for 2h. To above solution was added Boc
Lys methyl ester (1.15 g, 3.88 mmol, 1.0 eq). The mixture was stirred at rt for 3h, quenched
with water. The reaction was extracted with DCM (3x). The organic layer was washed with
brine and dried over Na 2 SO 4 and then concentrated to give product J3 (900 mg, 63%) as oil.
                                 H                LiOH, r.t.                         H
          BocH                             N3 THF/MeOH/H 20        BocHN             N       N3
                             -     0                                     "r0
                0   0                                                    0   OH
                             J3                                                      J4
                                                       H
               4 N HCI in dioxane     H2 N             N             N3
                                         0  OH            0
                                                  (40)
[00343]      To a solution of J3 (900 mg, 2.42 mmol, 1.0 eq) in a mixture of THF: MeOH: H2 0
(5mL: 3mL: 2mL) was added LiOH (508 mg, 12.1 mmol, 5.0 eq). The mixture allowed to stir
at rt for 1h, concentrated to dryness to give crude sodium salt J4.
[00344]      The crude J4 was treated with 4N HCl in dioxane (10 mL) and stirred at rt for 1h,
concentrated to give crude product (40), which was purified by prep HPLC to give pure (40)
(332 mg, 53%) as white solid. LC-MS (ESI): 258 (M+1), 256 (M-1). 'HNMR (300 MHz, D 2 0)
6 3.52 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 1H), 3.15 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 2H), 2.99 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 2.12 (t, J= 7.5 Hz,
2H), 1.66 (m, 4H), 1.35 (m, 2H), 1.18 (m, 2H).
                                                Example 6
                         Assessment of Reactivity of Compounds (30) and (40)
                                                       99

[00345]      This example provides an assessment of the reaction rate of compounds (30) and
(40) as compared to a reference compound, p-azido-phenylalanine (50).
[00346]      DBCO analog (60), was dissolved in acetonitrile to a concentration of 60 pM.
Amino acid analogs (30), (40), and (50) were serially diluted in PBS buffer in the wells of a
96-well microtiter plate to a volume of 180 pL. 20 pL of DBCO analog stock solution was
added to each well and the kinetics of the loss of DBCO to form the addition adduct was
monitored at 310 nm by absorbance using a SpectraMax plate reader at 25 C'. A schematic of
the reaction of compounds (30), (40), and (50) with compound (60) is shown as Figure 1. The
kinetics accurately fit a first order decay with A 3 10= Ao*(1-exp(-kobs*t)), where kobs is the
pseudo first order rate constant with units of sec-I under conditions where [Azide
compound]>>[DBCO]. A plot of kobs vs. [Azide] yields the second-order rate constant (units of
MI sec ) for each amino acid, a measure of the intrinsic chemical reactivity of each amino
acid.
[00347]      The results of the experiment are shown as Figure 2. Surprisingly, compounds (30)
and (40) exhibited a first order rate constant of 1.4 M-1 sec 1 , approximately 7-fold higher than
first order rate constant of 0.2 M- 1 sec- for compound (50). Similar experiments were
performed to assess the reactivity of compounds (1), (2), and (3); the reaction of compounds
(1), (2), and (3) was greater than 90% complete in 30 minutes and complete in less than 2
hours, suggesting that compounds (1), (2), and (3) exhibit rate constants similar to those of
compounds (30) and (40).
                                             Example 7
               Incorporation of compound (30) into an exemplary polypeptide, GFP
[00348]      This example describes incorporation of compound (30) into green fluorescent
protein. To monitor synthesis of GFP, the DNA encoding turboGFP containing an amber
codon (stop codon) before the chromophore was cloned into OCFS expression vector pYD317.
The stop codon (TAG) was inserted by overlapping PCR mutagenesis at the nucleotides
corresponding to the amino acid tyrosine at the    5 0 th amino acid according to the crystal
structure of turboGFP (pdb 2G6X). Previous studies of this site demonstrated that non
aromatic substitutions at this position resulted in an absence of fluorescence and that
suppression with an aromatic nnAA at the stop codon will result in fluorescence.
[00349]      Reactions were incubated at 30'C in a spectrophotometer (Molecular Devices,
SpectraMaxM5) for five hours with an adhesive cover (VWR, 9503130) and fluorescence
intensity measured at 10-minute intervals, kEx = 476 nm and kEm = 51. OCFS reaction mix was
                                                 100

immediately added to microplate for a 30 pL final reaction volume containing 30% S30
extract, 24 pg/mL T7 RNA polymerase, 1mM L-tyrosine (Sigma, T8566), pre-mix*, 10pM
tRNA, 5 pM pCNFRS D286R, 1 mM compound (30), and 3nM turboGFP plasmid (Evrogen,
Russia, subcloned into a PYD317 vector) in DEPC-treated water (G Biosciences, 786-109). A
positive control reaction using turboGFP without the stop codon was used to ensure that the
reactions proceeded with rates similar previously observed, while reactions containing
turboGFP Y50TAG were also run without tRNA to ensure no fluorescence was detected
(negative control) in the absence of the system responsible for incorporation of pAMF.
Incorporation of pAMF into GFP achieves relatively high yields of protein in a site-specific
manner. Figure 3 shows a time course for pAMF incorporation at the Y50TAG site in GFP.
                                            Example 8
           Incorporation of compound (30) into an exemplary polypeptide, GM-CSF
[00350]     DNA encoding human GMCSF with amber codon was cloned into expression
vector pYD317. The TAG codon was inserted by overlapping PCR mutagenesis at the
nucleotides corresponding to the amino acid serine at the position 6.
[00351]     Cell-free extracts containing tRNA CUA were thawed to room temperature and
incubated with 50 pM iodoacetamide for 30 min. Cell-free reactions were run at 30C for up to
10 h containing 30% (v/v) iodoacetamide-treated extract with 8 mM magnesium glutamate, 10
mM ammonium glutamate, 130 mM potassium glutamate, 35 mM sodium pyruvate, 1.2 mM
AMP, 0.86 mM each of GMP, UMP, and CMP, 2 mM amino acids for all 18 amino acids
except tyrosine and phenylalanine which were added at 0.5 mM, 4 mM sodium oxalate, 1 mM
putrescine, 1.5 mM spermidine, 15 mM potassium phosphate, 100 nM T7 RNAP, 1.3 pM E.
coli DsbC, 2 mM oxidized (GSSG) glutathione, 1 pM tRNA synthetase, and 1 mM compound
(30). The concentrations of GMCSF TAG variant plasmid was 5 pg/mL. To label synthesized
protein with 14C, 3.33% (v/v) 1-[U-14C]-leucine (300 mCi/mmole; GE Life Sciences,
Piscataway, NJ) was added to reaction as well.
[00352]     For reducing gel, 4 pL of sample, 1 pL of 1 M DTT, 7 pL of DI H2 0 and 4 pL of
4X LDS buffer (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) were mixed and heated in hot blot at 70 C for 5
minutes. Samples were analyzed by 4~12% Bis-Tris SDS-PAGE gels (Invitrogen, Carlsbad,
CA) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Gels were dried and analyzed by
autoradiography using a Storm 840 Phospholmager after about 16 hours exposure.
[00353]     Autoradiography demonstrated that intact full length GMCSF containing compound
(30) was made.
                                               101

                                           Example 9
              Incorporation of compound (30) into an exemplary polypeptide, IgG
[00354]     To demonstrate the feasibility of incorporation of compound (30) into IgG, DNA
encoding trastuzumab heavy chain containing an amber codon and DNA encoding trastuzumab
light chain were cloned into expression vector pYD317. TAG codon was inserted by
overlapping PCR mutagenesis at the nucleotides corresponding to the amino acid serine at the
position 136 by EU index in CHI domain.
[00355]     Cell-free extracts were thawed to room temperature and incubated with 50 pM
iodoacetamide for 30 min. Cell-free reactions were run at 30C for up to 10 h containing 30%
(v/v) iodoacetamide-treated extract with 8 mM magnesium glutamate, 10 mM ammonium
glutamate, 130 mM potassium glutamate, 35 mM sodium pyruvate, 1.2 mM AMP, 0.86 mM
each of GMP, UMP, and CMP, 2 mM amino acids for all 18 amino acids except tyrosine and
phenylalanine which were added at 0.5 mM, 4 mM sodium oxalate, 1 mM putrescine, 1.5 mM
spermidine, 15 mM potassium phosphate, 100 nM T7 RNAP, 1.3 pM E. coli DsbC, 5 pM yeast
PDI, 2 mM oxidized (GSSG) glutathione, 15 pM tRNA, 1 pM tRNA synthetase, and 1 mM
compound (30). The concentrations of heavy chain TAG variant plasmid and wild type light
chain plasmid were 7.5 pg/mL and 2.5 pg/mL respectively. To label synthesized protein with
14C, 3.33% (v/v) 1-[U-14C]-leucine (300 mCi/mmole; GE Life Sciences, Piscataway, NJ) was
added to reaction as well.
[00356]     For non reducing gel, 4 pL of sample, 8 pL of DI H 2 0 and 4 pL of 4X LDS buffer
(Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) were mixed before being loaded on gel. For reducing gel, 4 pL of
sample, 1 pL of 1 M DTT, 7 pL of DI H 2 0 and 4 pL of 4X LDS buffer (Invitrogen, Carlsbad,
CA) were mixed and heated in hot blot at 70 C for 5 minutes. Samples were analyzed by
4~12% Bis-Tris SDS-PAGE gels (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) according to the manufacturer's
recommendations. Gels were dried and analyzed by autoradiography using a Storm 840
Phospholmager after about 16 hours exposure.
[00357]     Autoradiography demonstrated that the intact full length IgG containing compound
(30) was made.
                                           Example 10
                    Assessment of Reactivity of Compounds (30), (1) and (2)
[00358]     This example provides an assessment of the reaction rate of compounds (30), (1)
and (2) with DBCO-NH 2 (61) (shown below).
                                                102

                                                N         NH2
                                                 (61)
[00359]     DBCO-NH 2 (61) was dissolved in pH 7.4 phosphate buffered saline to yield a 500
piM solution. Amino acid analogs (30), (1), and (2) were dissolved in the same buffer to yield
5 mM clear solutions, and then diluted to a concentration of 500 tM using the same buffer.
One hundred microliters of each amino acid analog was mixed with 100 pL of compound (61)
and vortexed. The absorption of compound (61) was monitored at 310 nm using a
NANODROP 1000 UV Spectrometer. Measurements were obtained at 0, 0.5, 2, 6, and 20
hours. The reduction in the absorption of compound (61) is indicative of its reaction with the
amino acid analogs.
[00360]     The results of the experiment are shown in Figure 4. Compounds (1) and (30)
reacted readily with compound (61) in 1:1 equivalence to produce almost quantitative yield in
six hours. The reaction rate between compound (1) and compound (61) was comparable to the
reaction rate between compound (30) and compound (61). The reaction rate between
compound (2) and compound (61) was two- to four-fold slower than the reaction rate between
the other two amino acid analogs and compound (61). However, the reaction rate of
compound (2) should be faster than that of compound (50) of Example 6, based on compound
(30) as a common comparator.
The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is included in this
specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It is not
suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or
were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed
before the priority date of each claim of this application.
Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in this
specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the
stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or more
other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
                                                  103

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A polypeptide comprising one or more amino acid residues of a compound according to
formula II or formula I:
                                            N3
                                                W4
                                          0                         0
                                      HO      .              HO             D'N3
                                             NH 2                     NH2
                                      Formula II                 Formula I;
        or a salt thereof, wherein:
                 D is -Ar-W 3- or -WI-Y-C(O)-Y 2-W 2-;
                 Ar is
                           Z2        /1
                     Z3    Z1       Z3 , Z 1         N
                    HN               N-NH           N-N
                                              ,or
                 each of W 1, W 2 , and W 3 is independently a single bond or C1 to C6 alkylene;
                 W 4 is C1-Cio alkylene;
                 X 1 is -NH-, -0-, or -S-;
                 Y1 is a single bond, -NH-, or -0-;
                 Y 2 is an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and
    one of Z 1 , Z 2 , and Z 3 is -N- and the others of Z1 , Z 2 , and Z 3 are -CH-;
linked to a payload through a 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing moiety, which was formed by a
reaction of the N 3 of the one or more amino acid residues with an alkyne-linked payload, and
optionally comprising a linking moiety between the polypeptide and the payload; wherein the
payload comprises a carbohydrate.
    2. The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein D is -Ar-W 3 -.
    3.  The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein D is -W 1 -Y 1 -C(O)-Y 2 -W 2 -.
    4. The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein:
                 D is -Ar-W 3-; and
                 Ar is
                                                    104

                        2           Z2
                 Z33-Z  1           Z1
                          r            .
5.  The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein:
           D is -Ar-W 3-; and
           Ar is
6. The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein:
           D is -Ar-W 3 -;
           W 3 is -CH 2-; and
           Ar is
                   Z2
7. The polypeptide of claim 1 wherein:
           D is -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y    2 -W 2 -; and
           Y1 is independently -NH- or -0-.
8. The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein:
           D is -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y    2 -W 2 -;
           Y 2 is independently an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and
           W 2 is a single bond.
9. The polypeptide of claim 1 wherein the compound is according to formula Ia:
                                               0
                                           HO         D'N3
                                                  NH2
                                             Formula Ia.
10. The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein each of W 2 and W 3 is independently C1-C 3
    alkylene.
                                              105

11. The polypeptide of claim 1 wherein the compound is according to formula II:
                                              N3
                                                  W4
                                            0
                                        HO
                                                NH2
                                         Formula II;
    or a salt thereof, wherein W 4 is C1-C10 alkylene.
12. The polypeptide of claim 11 wherein the compound is according to formula 30:
                                               N3
                                               0
                                        HO.
                                                NH2
                                            (30);
    or a salt thereof.
13. The polypeptide of claim 1 wherein the compound is according to any of the following
    formulas:
           N3                               N3                         N3
                                                  N
         O      -N                        O                           O      -N
    HO      .                         HO     .                    HO       .
            NH2                              NH2                          NH2
          (1)                              (2)                          (3)
         N3                               N3
                  N                                                      ON      3
         O                                O  N ./ON
    HO                                HO                        HO      .
            NH2                              NH2                       NH2
          (4)                              (5)                          (7)
                                             106

                                                      -N 3                                N3
                      O N3     0-              S- (HN\
                    N              N
                                                                           O N ''
      HO                               HO                               HO     .
             NH2                             NH 2                             NH2
              (8)                             (9)                             (10)
                       N3                      N3
                                                                                        N3
                  N-NN
                        N0                       N                            0     1,N
       HO       .                        HO       .                     HO     _
               NH2                               NH 2                         NH2
               (1)                           (12)                             (13)
                                                 N3                               N3
                        N3
              SN                                 S    N                          0      N
      HO      _                          HO      _                        HO      _
             NH2                                NH2                              NH2
             (14)                            (15)                             (16)
              N-NH
                         N3
                                       0                               0                     N3
                     N  7
     HO                  N          HO              N      NHO
             NH2                          NH2 0                           NH2 0
             (17)                            (24)                             (25)
     O            0                  0          0                     0           0
        HON                 N3    HO              N         N     HO                          N3
                                                                               H              N3
        NH 2                            NH 2                N3           NH 2        HN
             (26)                            (27)                             (28)
     O            0
 HO           N      N      N
        NH2 H                3
          and (29);
   or a salt thereof.
    14. The polypeptide of any one of claims 1-13 wherein the 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing
moiety of the polypeptide is linked to the payload by a linking moiety.
                                                 107

    15. The polypeptide of any one of claims 1-14 wherein the 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing
moiety is linked at the 1-position of the 1,2,3-triazolylene to the W 4 position of the one or
more amino acid residues.
    16. The polypeptide of any one of claims 1-15 wherein the linking moiety comprises a
peptide linkage.
    17. The polypeptide of any one of claims 1-16 wherein the linking moiety comprises or
further comprises C1 1 8-alkylene, substituted C1i-18-alkylene, hetero-C 1 i-18-alkylene, substituted
hetero-C 1 i-18-alkylene, arylene, substituted arylene, heteroarlyene, or substituted heteroarylene.
    18. The polypeptide of any one of claims 1-17 wherein the linking moiety comprises or
further comprises heteroalkylene or substituted heteroalkylene.
    19. The polypeptide of any one of claims 1-18 wherein the linking moiety comprises or
further comprises a poly(alkylene glycol); a polyethylene glycol; poly(dextran);
poly(propylene glycol); -CH 2 CH 2 0-(CH2 CH 2 0),-CH 2CH 2- or -CH 2 CH 2 0-(CH 2 CH 2 0)n
CH 2 CH 2 -0-(CH 2 )m-W- where n is 20 to 4000; -O-(CH2CH20)ni-0-(CH2)m-, -0
(CH 2CH 20)ni-0-(CH 2)mi-NH-C(O)-(CH 2)pi-, or [-O-(CH 2CH 20),i-O-(CH 2) 2-NH
C(O)] 2 CH(CH 2 )mi-X 1 O-(CH 2 )pi- where ml is 2-10, nl is 100-1,000, pl is 2-10, and X 10 is
optionally an 0, N, S or carbonyl group (C=O), or not present.
    20. The polypeptide of any one of claims 1-19 where the linking moiety comprises or
further comprises a polyethylene glycol.
    21. The polypeptide of any one of claims claim 1-20 wherein the payload further comprises
a fatty acid, or peptide, or a combination thereof.
    22. The polypeptide of claim 21 wherein immunogenicity of the polypeptide is modulated
compared to its parent polypeptide.
    23. An antibody comprising one or more amino acid residues of a compound according to
formula II or formula I:
                                          N3 ,W4
                                        0                      0
                                    HO                      HO         D'N3
                                           NH 2                   NH2
                                    Formula II               Formula I;
        or a salt thereof, wherein:
                                                   108

                 D is -Ar-W 3- or -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y         2 -W 2-;
                 Ar is
                             2   Z
                     Z3     Z1        Z3 , Z 1       N
                    HN                 N-NH         N-N
                                                ,or           ;
                 each of W 1, W 2 , and W 3 is independently a single bond or C1 to C6 alkylene;
                 W 4 is CI-C 10 alkylene;
                 X1 is -NH-, -0-, or -S-;
                 Y1 is a single bond, -NH-, or -0-;
                 Y2 is an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and
    one of Z 1 , Z 2 , and Z 3 is -N- and the others of Z1 , Z 2 , and Z 3 are -CH-;
linked to a payload through a 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing moiety, which was formed by a
reaction of the N3 of the one or more amino acid residues with an alkyne-linked payload, and
optionally comprising a linking moiety between the polypeptide and the payload; wherein the
payload comprises a carbohydrate.
    24. The antibody of claim 23 wherein D is -Ar-W 3-.
    25. The antibody of claim 23, wherein D is -W 1 -Y 1-C(O)-Y 2 -W 2-.
    26. The antibody of claim 23, wherein:
                 D is -Ar-W 3-; and
                 Ar is
                                  Z2           Z2
                         Z3   ,' Z1            Z1
                           I         or
    27. The antibody of claim 23, wherein:
                 D is -Ar-W 3-; and
                 Ar is
                      zxj--z
    28. The antibody of claim 23, wherein:
                                                    109

            D is -Ar-W 3-;
            W 3 is -CH 2-; and
            Ar is
                    Z2
29. The antibody of claim 23 wherein:
            D is -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y    2 -W 2 -; and
            Y1 is independently -NH- or -0-.
30. The antibody of claim 23, wherein:
            D is -W1-Y1-C(O)-Y    2 -W 2 -;
            Y2 is independently an N-linked or C-linked pyrrolidinylene; and
            W 2 is a single bond.
31. The antibody of claim 23 wherein the compound is according to formula Ia:
                                                0
                                            HO         D'N3
                                                   NH2
                                              Formula Ia.
32. The antibody of claim 23, wherein each of W 2 and W 3 is independently C1 -C 3 alkylene.
33. The antibody of claim 23, wherein the compound is according to formula II:
                                               N3 ,W4
                                              0
                                         HO
                                                 NH2
                                          Formula II;
    or a salt thereof, wherein W4 is CI-Cio alkylene.
34. The antibody of claim 33 wherein the compound is according to formula 30:
                                               110

                                             N3
                                           0
                                     HO)
                                              NH2
                                          (30);
    or a salt thereof.
35. The antibody of claim 23 wherein the compound is according to any of the following
    formulas:
            N3                           N3                           N3
                                                 N
         O      -N                     O                              O      -N
    HO                            HO                              HO   .
             NH 2                          NH2                           NH 2
           (1)                          (2)                            (3)
         N3                            N3
                   N                    ON                                        3
    HO        _                    HO       _                   HO     _
             NH2                           NH2                        NH2
           (4)                          (5)                            (7)
                  O N3                            N3                            N3
                         0-              S-                           HN
                N            N                       O                 N
  HO      -                     HO                              HO
         NH2                           NH2                            NH2
           (8)                          (9)                           (10)
                   N3                    N3
                                                                              N3
             N-NN
                    N0                      N                         0OZN
   HO       _                      HO                           HO     _
            NH2                             NH 2                      NH2
         (11)                          (12)                           (13)
                                           111

                                                   N3                                 N3
                         N3
                S     N                            S    N                           0      N
      HO                                    HO                                 HO
                NH2                                NH2                                NH2
                (14)                            (15)                               (16)
                 N-NH
                          N3
                N0                        0          N&       30                                 N3
     HO                   N          HO                                HO
               NH2                            NH2 0                            NH2 0
                (17)                            (24)                               (25)
     O              0                  0          0                        0          0
 HO    'N                    Na    HO                NN3NHO                                       N3
                      2                    N H2                N3             NH 2      HN
                (26)                            (27)                               (28)
     O             0
  HO             N    N      N
        NH2 H
           and (29);
    or a salt thereof.
    36. The antibody of any one of claims 23-35 wherein the 1,2,3-triazolylene-containing
moiety of the antibody is linked to the payload by a linking moiety.
    37. The antibody of any one of claims 23-36 wherein the 1,2,3-triazolylene moiety is
linked at the 1-position of the 1,2,3-triazolylene to the W 4 position of the one or more amino
acid residues.
    38. The antibody of any one of claims 23-37 wherein the linking moiety comprises a
peptide linkage.
    39. The antibody of any one of claims 23-38 wherein the linking moiety comprises or
further comprises C 1. 8-alkylene, substituted C1i-18-alkylene, hetero-C1 i-18-alkylene, substituted
hetero-C 1 i-18-alkylene, arylene, substituted arylene, heteroarlyene, or substituted heteroarylene.
    40. The antibody of any one of claims 23-39 wherein the linking moiety comprises or
further comprises heteroalkylene or substituted heteroalkylene.
                                                   112

    41. The antibody of any one of claims 23-40 wherein the linking moiety comprises or
further comprises a poly(alkylene glycol); a polyethylene glycol; poly(dextran);
poly(propylene glycol); -CH 2 CH 2 0-(CH2 CH 2 0),-CH 2CH 2- or -CH 2 CH 2 0-(CH 2 CH 2 0)n
CH 2 CH 2-0-(CH 2 )m-W- where n is 20 to 4000; -O-(CH2CH20)ni-0-(CH2)m-,
-0-(CH2 CH 2 0)ni-0-(CH2)mi-NH-C(O)-(CH 2)pi-, or [-O-(CH 2 CH 20),i-O-(CH 2)2-NH
C(O)] 2 CH(CH 2 )mi-X 1 O-(CH 2 )pi- where ml is 2-10, nI is 100-1,000, pl is 2-10, and X 10 is
optionally an 0, N, S or carbonyl group (C=O), or not present.
    42. The antibody of any one of claims 23-41 where the linking moiety comprises or further
comprises a polyethylene glycol.
    43. The antibody of any one of claims claim 23-42 wherein the payload further comprises a
fatty acid, or peptide, or a combination thereof.
    44. The antibody of claim 43 wherein immunogenicity of the antibody is modulated
compared to its parent antibody.
    45. A method for producing a polypeptide, comprising:
       a) forming the polypeptide by combining an alkyne-linked payload, which optionally
comprises a linking moiety between the alkyne and the payload, with a polypeptide comprising
one or more amino acid residues according to formula Ila:
                                                        N3NW4
                                                        HN;,
                                                       (Ila);
or a salt thereof, wherein W 4 is CI-C 10 alkylene and wherein the payload comprises a
carbohydrate.
    46. The method of any one of claims 45, wherein the one or more amino acid residues of
formula Ila is according to:
                                                N3
                                               0
                                                 HN/
                                                  113

or a salt thereof.
    47. A polypeptide prepared according to the method of any one of claims 45-46.
    48. The polypeptide of claim 47, wherein the alkyne-linked payload comprises a linking
moiety between the alkyne and the payload and the linking moiety comprises a polyethylene
glycol.
    49. The polypeptide of claim 47 or 48, wherein the alkyne-linked payload comprises a
linking moiety between the alkyne and the payload and the linking moiety comprises a peptide
linkage.
                                              114

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+260E><U+2721> <U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C><U+261E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2720><U+2716><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2717><U+271A><U+271B><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271C> <U+2712><U+271C><U+271A><U+2722>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2724>     <U+2704><U+2720><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+271E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2725><U+272B><U+272A><U+272C> <U+271C><U+260E><U+2706><U+2715>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+2713><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+271C><U+2730><U+271C><U+2717><U+272F> <U+2731><U+272D><U+271C><U+271A><U+272E> <U+2731><U+271B><U+271C><U+272F>    <U+271B><U+272E><U+272D><U+2732><U+2733><U+271C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2731><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2734><U+271C><U+272F><U+272E> <U+2722><U+2733><U+272E><U+2719><U+2732>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+270F><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2715><U+270C><U+270C><U+270C><U+261E><U+270F>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2732><U+271B><U+2712><U+2735><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270C><U+261E><U+270F><U+2735><U+270C><U+2714><U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E><U+2724>   <U+2713><U+270C><U+261E><U+270F><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+270F><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+2714><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2719> <U+2737><U+261E><U+2735><U+2737><U+2738><U+2737><U+272C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2736>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+2714><U+261E><U+2724>   <U+2713><U+270C><U+261E><U+2713><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+2737><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2713>
              <U+2723><U+261E><U+2736><U+270C><U+2724>   <U+2732><U+272A><U+2720><U+2701><U+260E><U+2720><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2739><U+2701><U+2725><U+271F><U+271E><U+2726><U+260E> <U+270F><U+2715><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+261E><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270E><U+2738>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+261E><U+2713><U+2724> <U+2732><U+2733><U+2712>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+261E><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2720><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2706><U+271E><U+272A><U+273B>     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2713><U+270C><U+2724>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2713><U+270F><U+2724>     <U+273C><U+260E><U+2720><U+2729><U+2701><U+2720><U+271E><U+2706> <U+273D><U+2701><U+272A><U+2739><U+273C> <U+271B><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+2723><U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2724> <U+261E>
              <U+2722><U+273B><U+2704> <U+273E><U+272A><U+273B> <U+2722><U+273B><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+273E><U+272A><U+273B> <U+2722><U+273B><U+2704>     <U+2701><U+2725> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+273E><U+272A><U+273B> <U+2722><U+273B><U+260E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C>
              <U+261E>               <U+2714>                      <U+261E><U+270C>                  <U+261E><U+2714>
               <U+2701><U+2725> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2721> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>    <U+2701><U+2725> <U+271B><U+273C><U+271F> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2725> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2732><U+2729><U+2701> <U+2731><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271C><U+273B><U+2701> <U+271D><U+273C><U+271F> <U+2731><U+271F><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2725>
                          <U+2713><U+270C>                      <U+2713><U+2714>                  <U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+2712><U+273C><U+2725> <U+271C><U+273B><U+2701> <U+273D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2605> <U+273E><U+272A><U+273B> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2722><U+273B><U+260E> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+271D><U+273C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2722><U+273B><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2605> <U+273E><U+272A><U+273B>
                      <U+270F><U+2714>                  <U+270E><U+270C>                  <U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2721> <U+271C><U+273B><U+2701> <U+2712><U+273C><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2731><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2712><U+273C><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2712><U+273C><U+2725> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+2731><U+271F><U+2605>      <U+2701><U+2725> <U+273E><U+272A><U+273B>
                  <U+2714><U+270C>                  <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+270C>
              <U+271D><U+273C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2732><U+2729><U+2701> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271C><U+273B><U+2701>     <U+2701><U+2725> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+2731><U+271F><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2725>    <U+2701><U+2725> <U+271D><U+273C><U+271F> <U+2731><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+2712><U+273C><U+2725>
              <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+270C>                       <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2722><U+273B><U+260E> <U+272D><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2731><U+271F><U+260E>    <U+2701><U+2725> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2721> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+2722><U+273B><U+2704> <U+2731><U+271F><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2731><U+273B><U+272A> <U+273E><U+272A><U+273B> <U+2712><U+273C><U+2725> <U+2712><U+273C><U+2725> <U+271B><U+273C><U+271F>
                                <U+270D><U+2714>                  <U+2738><U+270C>                  <U+2738><U+2714>
                                                       <U+2732><U+272A><U+2721><U+2701> <U+261E>

                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+260E><U+2721> <U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C><U+261E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2720><U+2716><U+2720>
<removed-date>
               <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2717><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2717><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2717><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271A><U+271B><U+260E>
                          <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+2714>                 <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B>          <U+2701><U+2717>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724>   <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727>   <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B>
                      <U+261E><U+261E><U+2714>                           <U+261E><U+2713><U+270C>                  <U+261E><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727>        <U+2701><U+2717>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+261E><U+270F><U+270C>                         <U+261E><U+270F><U+2714>                     <U+261E><U+270E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+261E><U+270E><U+2714>                 <U+261E><U+2714><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2714><U+2714>                <U+261E><U+2729><U+270C>
              <U+2712><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2718><U+271F><U+260E>      <U+2701><U+2717> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717>        <U+2701><U+2717> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272A><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B>
                                  <U+261E><U+2729><U+2714>                       <U+261E><U+272B><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271A><U+271B><U+260E>      <U+2701><U+2717>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717>      <U+2701><U+2717> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>   <U+2701><U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727>
                                <U+261E><U+270D><U+270C>                     <U+261E><U+270D><U+2714>                   <U+261E><U+272C><U+270C>
               <U+2701><U+2717>    <U+2701><U+2717>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271A><U+271B><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717> <U+272D><U+271B><U+2701> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2718><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271F><U+260E> <U+272A><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F>
                          <U+261E><U+272C><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+2713><U+270C><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2718><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F>           <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719>
                    <U+2713><U+261E><U+270C>                 <U+2713><U+261E><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+2713><U+270C>
              <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+270F><U+270C>                 <U+2713><U+270F><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727>    <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2725><U+2701><U+2720> <U+272D><U+271B><U+2701>
                                <U+2713><U+270E><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+2714><U+270C>                 <U+2713><U+2714><U+2714>
               <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2717><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2605><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704>
                          <U+2713><U+2729><U+270C>                 <U+2713><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+272B><U+270C>
              <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701> <U+2718><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+2726><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272A><U+271E><U+271F>
                      <U+2713><U+272B><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+270D><U+270C>                 <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714>
              <U+2718><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2718><U+271B><U+2724> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271C><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2718><U+2717><U+2721> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2704> <U+271A><U+271B><U+260E> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2718><U+271F><U+260E>             <U+2701><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2717><U+2721>
                  <U+2713><U+272C><U+270C>                 <U+2713><U+272C><U+2714>                 <U+270F><U+270C><U+270C>
                                                              <U+2722><U+2724><U+2721><U+2701> <U+2713>

                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+260E><U+2721> <U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C><U+261E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2720><U+2716><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>       <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271C><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+2723><U+271F><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271A><U+2724> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F>
              <U+270F><U+270C><U+2714>                      <U+270F><U+261E><U+270C>                 <U+270F><U+261E><U+2714>                 <U+270F><U+2713><U+270C>
              <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>         <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2701> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704>
                              <U+270F><U+2713><U+2714>                        <U+270F><U+270F><U+270C>                 <U+270F><U+270F><U+2714>
              <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2701>      <U+2701><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2723><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2725><U+271A>
                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270C>                 <U+270F><U+270E><U+2714>                 <U+270F><U+2714><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605>       <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2723><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704> <U+272A><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>          <U+2701><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>
                      <U+270F><U+2714><U+2714>                      <U+270F><U+272B><U+270C>                 <U+270F><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2726><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2701> <U+2712><U+2725><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605>            <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2723><U+271F><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2701> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704> <U+2712><U+271A><U+2724>
                  <U+270F><U+272C><U+270C>                 <U+270F><U+272C><U+2714>                           <U+270F><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704>   <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+270F><U+270D><U+2714>                  <U+270F><U+272D><U+270C>                 <U+270F><U+272D><U+2714>                 <U+270E><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2723><U+271F><U+2724>       <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2723><U+271F><U+2724> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725>    <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2701> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2725><U+271A>     <U+2701><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2723><U+271F><U+2724>
                                   <U+270E><U+270C><U+2714>                   <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C>                    <U+270E><U+261E><U+2714>
              <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F>   <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2723><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2712><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2701>           <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2726><U+2725><U+271F>    <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2701><U+2720> <U+271C><U+271E><U+271F>
                           <U+270E><U+2713><U+270C>                 <U+270E><U+2713><U+2714>                            <U+270E><U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+2722><U+2719><U+2704> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271C><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2723><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271C><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2725><U+271A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F>            <U+2701><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>    <U+2701><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>   <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605>
                      <U+270E><U+270F><U+2714>                 <U+270E><U+270E><U+270C>                             <U+270E><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725>
              <U+272E><U+2713><U+261E><U+270C><U+272F> <U+2713>
              <U+272E><U+2713><U+261E><U+261E><U+272F> <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2713><U+261E><U+2713><U+272F> <U+2727><U+2730><U+2712>
              <U+272E><U+2713><U+261E><U+270F><U+272F> <U+2723><U+271A><U+2720><U+271E><U+2731><U+271E><U+2706><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719>           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272E><U+2713><U+2713><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+272E><U+2713><U+2713><U+270F><U+272F>      <U+2725><U+260E><U+2720><U+271B><U+2701><U+2720><U+271E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2726><U+271B><U+2718><U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+272E><U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+272F>     <U+2713>
              <U+2723><U+271F><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2701> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E> <U+272A><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2712><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2719><U+260E>          <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271A><U+2605>   <U+2701><U+271A>    <U+2701><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2722><U+2719><U+2725>
              <U+261E>               <U+2714>                              <U+261E><U+270C>                <U+261E><U+2714>
                                                               <U+2727><U+2718><U+2721><U+2701> <U+270F>

                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+260E><U+2721> <U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C><U+261E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2720><U+2716><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2721> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2723><U+271C><U+2701> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B>     <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2717><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B>
                          <U+2713><U+270C>                  <U+2713><U+2714>                     <U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2723><U+271C><U+2701>
                      <U+270F><U+2714>                  <U+270E><U+270C>                  <U+270E><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725>
                    <U+2714><U+270C>                   <U+2714><U+2714>                     <U+2729><U+270C>
               <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2721>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2723><U+271C><U+2701>     <U+2701><U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2714>                    <U+272A><U+270C>                  <U+272A><U+2714>                      <U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+272B><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605>
                              <U+270D><U+2714>                  <U+272C><U+270C>                  <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+2723><U+271C><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B>
                          <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+2714>                 <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2723><U+271C><U+2701> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605>     <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725>
                       <U+261E><U+261E><U+2714>                 <U+261E><U+2713><U+270C>                    <U+261E><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2717><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2717><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B>
                  <U+261E><U+270F><U+270C>                   <U+261E><U+270F><U+2714>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718> <U+2717><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E>       <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+2717><U+271F><U+260E>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+270E><U+2714>                 <U+261E><U+2714><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+2714><U+2714>                       <U+261E><U+2729><U+270C>
              <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>   <U+2701><U+2719>
                                <U+261E><U+2729><U+2714>                   <U+261E><U+272A><U+270C>                   <U+261E><U+272A><U+2714>
               <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>    <U+2701><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271F><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2719>
                          <U+261E><U+270D><U+270C>                   <U+261E><U+270D><U+2714>                 <U+261E><U+272C><U+270C>
              <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2724><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+272B><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2726><U+271C><U+260E> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704>      <U+2701><U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2719> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2605> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2722><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271F>    <U+2701><U+2719>
                      <U+261E><U+272C><U+2714>                 <U+2713><U+270C><U+270C>                      <U+2713><U+270C><U+2714>
              <U+2727><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2717><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2721> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2725> <U+2726><U+271C><U+2704> <U+2724><U+2725><U+271F>
                  <U+2713><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                       <U+2727><U+271B><U+2721><U+2701> <U+270E>

