                                         ABSTRACT
         An antimicrobial lubricant (60) applied to an outer surface of an introducer needle
(50) as part of a catheter assembly device (10). The catheter assembly device further includes
a blood control septum (20) having a slit (26) through which the introducer needle is threaded.
The antimicrobial lubricant is squeegeed, or removed from the outer surface of the introducer
needle as the needle is removed from the slit following catheterization. The removed
antimicrobial lubricant forms a deposit on the septum at a location distal to the slit, thereby
preventing colonization and growth of pathogens on the septum and other adjacent
components and surfaces of the catheter assembly device.

                2/6
        rr)
    rrn               rrn
    Nj
                      rrn
                      rrn
NjN
                    rrn
         NjN
             NN
          NjN
          LnJ

       BLOOD CONTROL CATHETER WITH ANTIMICROBIAL NEEDLE LUBE
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014228372,
which is a national phase application of PCT Application No. PCT/US2014/021378, filed 6
March 2014, which claims priority to United States Application No. 13/793,569, filed 11 March
2013, the contents of which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001A]         The current invention relates to a lubricant for dermally invasive devices. In
particular, the present invention relates to methods and systems whereby an antimicrobial
lubricant is applied to the outer surface of a catheter device to prevent infection.
[0002]          Catheters are commonly used for a variety of infusion therapies. For example,
catheters are used for infusing fluids, such as normal saline solution, various medicaments, and
total parenteral nutrition into a patient, withdrawing blood from a patient, as well as monitoring
various parameters of the patient's vascular system.
[0003]          Catheters are commonly introduced into the vasculature of a patient as part of an
intravenous catheter assembly. The catheter assembly generally includes a catheter adapter, which
supports the catheter, the catheter adapter being coupled to a needle hub which supports an
introducer needle. The introducer needle is extended and positioned within the catheter such that a
beveled portion of the needle is exposed beyond a tip of the catheter. The beveled portion of the
needle is used to pierce the skin of the patient to provide an opening whereby to insert the needle
in the vasculature of the patient. Following insertion and placement of the catheter, the introducer
needle is removed from the catheter thereby providing intravenous access to the patient.
[0004]          Catheter-related bloodstream infections are caused by the colonization of
microorganisms in patients with intravascular catheters and I.V. access devices. These infections
are an important cause of illness and excess medical costs, as approximately 250,000 catheter
related bloodstream infections occur in United States intensive care units each year. In addition to
the monetary costs, these infections are associated with anywhere from 20,000 to 100,000 deaths
each year.
[0005]          Despite guidelines to help reduce healthcare associated infections (HAIs),
catheter-related bloodstream infections continue to plague our healthcare system. The 10 most
common pathogens (accounting for 84% of any HAIs) were coagulase-negative staphylococci
(15%),   Staphylococcus aureus (15%), Enterococcus species (12%), Candida species (11%),
Escherichiacoli (10%), Pseudomonas
                                                    1

 aeruginosa (8%),       Klebsiella pneumoniae (6%),        Enterobacter species (5%),
Acinetobacter baumannii (3%), and Klebsiella oxytoca (2%).             The pooled mean
 proportion of pathogenic isolates resistant to antimicrobial agents varied significantly
 across types of HAI for some pathogen-antimicrobial combinations. As many as 16%
 of all HAIs were associated with the following multidrug-resistant pathogens:
 methicillin-resistant S. aureus (8% of HAIs), vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus
faecium     (4%),    carbapenem-resistant   P.   aeruginosa (2%),      extended-spectrum
 cephalosporin-resistant    K. pneumoniae (1%),        extended-spectrumcephalosporin
 resistant E. coli (0.5%), and carbanpenem-resistant A. baumannii, K. pneumoniae, K.
 oxytoca, and E. coli (0.5%) antimicrobial-resistant pathogens.
 [0006]          Impregnating   catheters with various antimicrobial       agents is one
 approach that has been implemented to prevent these infections.          These catheters,
 however, have given less than satisfactory results. For example, these catheters are
 largely ineffective at preventing growth and colonization of pathogens on interior
 surfaces and components of a catheter assembly. In addition, some microbes have
 developed resistance to the various antimicrobial agents in the system.
 [0007]          Accordingly, there is a need in the art for dermally invasive devices
 having improved antimicrobial capabilities. Such methods and systems are disclosed
 herein.
 BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0008]          In order to overcome the limitations discussed above, the present
 invention relates to an antimicrobial lubricant matrix applied to a catheter device such
 that upon fully inserting the catheter device into a patient, the antimicrobial lubricant
 is interposed between the catheter and the dermal layers of the patient.
 [0009]          In some implementations, an antimicrobial formulation is provided as
 an insoluble lubricant material that is applied to an outer surface of an introducer
 needle as part of an intravenous catheter assembly. The lubricant material is applied
 so that as the needle is withdrawn through a blood control septum of the catheter
 assembly, a slit of the septum "squeegees" or otherwise removes a portion of the
 lubricant material from the outer surface of the needle.         The removed lubricant
 material collects on the membrane and slit of the septum to provide a physical barrier
 between the slit and the vasculature of the patient. In some instances, a portion of the
                                         2

removed lubricant material is deposited within the slit, thereby further closing or
sealing the slit.
[0010]            In some instances, the lubricant material further comprises a lubricious
agent. The lubricious agent reduces friction between the slit and the outer surface of
the needle. As such, the needle may be removed through the septum in smooth and
continuous manner without catching or otherwise damaging the septum's slit. The
lubricious agent of the lubricant material may further reduce friction between the
septum and an external Luer device that is inserted through the slit. The antimicrobial
lubricant may be transferred to the Luer device as it is inserted through the slit,
thereby killing any pathogens present thereon.            In some implementations, the
antimicrobial lubricant further includes an anti-thrombogenic agent to decrease the
likelihood of blood clots within the catheter assembly.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]            In order that the manner in which the above-recited and other features
and advantages of the invention are obtained will be readily understood, a more
particular description of the invention briefly described above will be rendered by
reference to specific embodiments thereof which are illustrated in the appended
drawings. These drawings depict only typical embodiments of the invention and are
not therefore to be considered to limit the scope of the invention.
[0012]            Figure 1 is a cross-section view of a catheter assembly having a coated
introducer needle positioned prior to being withdrawn from the catheter adapter in
accordance with a representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0013]            Figure 2 is a cross-section view of a catheter assembly having a coated
introducer needle partially withdrawn from the catheter, wherein an antimicrobial
lubricant on the introducer needle has been partially removed from the introducer
needle by the blood control septum in accordance with a representative embodiment
of the present invention.
[0014]            Figure 3 is a cross-section view of a catheter assembly having a blood
control septum that is coated with an antimicrobial material that was removed from
the outer surface of an introducer needle by the blood control septum as the introducer
needle was withdrawn from the catheter adapter in accordance with a representative
embodiment of the present invention.
                                          3

[0015]          Figure 4 is a cross-section end view of the blood control septum and
deposited antimicrobial lubricant material following removal of the introducer needle
in accordance with a representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0016]          Figure 5 is a detailed, cross-section view of the slit in the blood control
septum following removal of the introducer needle, wherein residual antimicrobial
lubricant material is deposited within the slit of the blood control septum in
accordance with a representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0017]          Figure 6 is a flow chart demonstrating a method for lubricant a septum
with an antimicrobial composition is accordance with a representative embodiment of
the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0018]          The presently preferred embodiment of the present invention will be
best understood by reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numbers indicate
identical or functionally similar elements.      It will be readily understood that the
components of the present invention, as generally described and illustrated in the
figures herein, could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different
configurations.   Thus, the following more detailed description, as represented in the
figures, is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed, but is merely
representative of presently preferred embodiments of the invention.
[0019]          Referring now to Figure 1, a catheter device assembly 10 is shown. In
general, a catheter device assembly 10 in accordance with the present invention
provides access to the vasculature of a patient, such as for infusion therapy procedures
or blood collection.   In some embodiments, catheter device system 10 comprises a
catheter adapter 30 which supports a catheter tube 40.         Catheter tube 40 extends
outwardly from catheter adapter 30 and is in fluid communication therewith.
[0020]          In some embodiments, catheter device system 10 further comprises a
needle hub (not shown) which supports an introducer needle 50. Introducer needle 50
is threadedly positioned through catheter adapter 30 and catheter tube 40 such that a
beveled tip 52 of needle 50 extends beyond catheter tip 42. Beveled tip 52 provides a
cutting surface whereby to penetrate the patient's skin and provide access to the
patient's vasculature.  Once catheter 40 is fully inserted into the patient, introducer
needle 50 is removed thereby providing intravenous access to the patient 20 via
catheter 40 and catheter adapter 30.
                                         4

[0021]          In some embodiments, catheter adapter 30 further comprises a blood
control septum 20.     Blood control septum 20 is provided as a physical barrier to
control the flow of blood and other fluids between the forward chamber 32 and the
rearward chamber 34 of catheter adapter 30. For example, upon insertion of beveled
tip 52 and catheter tip 42 into the patient's vein and the removal of the needle 50,
blood from the patient flows through lumen 44 of catheter tube 40 and into forward
chamber 32.     The patient's blood is prevented from bypassing septum 20, thereby
retaining the blood in forward chamber 32. Without blood control septum 20 in place,
blood would flow into rearward chamber 34 and out of opening 36 in an uncontrolled
manner. This would result in undesirable exposure of the user to the patient's blood.
Accordingly, blood control septum 20 is positioned in fluid pathway 38 of catheter
adapter 30 to prevent the user from being exposed to the patient's blood.
[0022]          In some instances, blood control septum 20 is seated into an annular
groove 31 that is provided in the inner surface 33 of catheter adapter 30. In some
embodiments, blood control septum 20 comprises an outer diameter that is greater
than an inner diameter of fluid pathway 38, and is slightly larger than the diameter of
annular groove 31. Thus, blood control septum 20 is seated into annular groove 31
and is prevented from moving within fluid pathway 38 in proximal 12 and distal 14
directions. In other instances, the outer peripheral edge of blood control septum 20 is
secured to inner surface 33 via an adhesive, plastic weld, or other mechanical
connection (such as a retainer clip).
[0023]          Blood control septum 20 may comprise any structural configuration
which is capable of dividing fluid pathway 38 into forward and rearward chambers 32
and 34. For example, in some embodiments blood control septum 20 comprises a
disc. In other embodiments, blood control septum 20 comprises a cylinder having a
proximal opening 22 and a distal cap forming a membrane 24. In some embodiments,
membrane 24 comprises a slit 26 or a plurality of slits which form a pathway through
membrane 24. Slit 26 may be configured to permit passage of introducer needle 50
through septum 20.
[0024]          The resilient or stretchy nature of septum 20 permits slits 26 to stretch
and thereby accommodate passage of needle 50. In some instances, a seal or interface
between slit 26 and the outer surface of needle 50 is sufficiently tight so that slit 26
prevents passage of fluid from forward chamber 32 to rearward chamber 34 when
                                        5

needle 50 is moved in proximal direction 12. Further, blood that is present on outer
surface 54 of the portion of needle 50 located in forward chamber 32 is removed or
"squeegeed" from outer surface 54 as needle 50 moved through slit 26 in proximal
direction 12. Upon complete removal of needle 50 from slit 26, slit 26 self-closes,
thereby further preventing fluid within forward chamber 32 from passing into
rearward chamber 34.
[0025]         Typically, the introducer needle 50 is coated with an oily lubricant that
helps to reduce the system drag during needle removal. In some embodiments, the
lubricant further comprises an antimicrobial agent forming an antimicrobial lubricant
60. The antimicrobial lubricant 60 is provided as a means for preventing colonization
and growth of microbes and pathogens within catheter assembly 10.               In some
embodiments the antimicrobial lubricant 60 is applied to entire outer surface 54 of
needle 50. In some instances, the antimicrobial lubricant 60 is applied to the portion
of outer surface 54 that is located in forward chamber 32. During clinical usage, as
the introducer needle is removed from the catheter, part of the antimicrobial lubricant
60 is removed or "squeegeed" from outer surface 54 as needle 50 moved through slit
26 in proximal direction 12, forming an antimicrobial barrier on the septum surface
and within the slit 26. In this way, antimicrobial lubricant 60 acts as a barrier to
prevent bacterial contamination of fluids the catheter.
[0026]         In some embodiments, an antimicrobial lubricant is insoluable in most
infusates and blood thus stay on the septum surfaces during multiple procedures, such
as blood drawings, drug infusion, TPN procedures, as well as saline and heparin
flushes. Therefore the antimicrobial lubricant can provide long lasting antimicrobial
protection.
[0027]         The formulations of the lubricant in this invention are comprised of a
mixture or combination of one or more lubricants, and antimicrobial agents. In the
mixture, the antimicrobial     agents are uniformly and permanently           distributed
throughout the lubricant matrix.
[0028]         In some embodiments, antimicrobial lubricant 60 comprises at least
one of a water soluble lubricant, an insoluble lubricant, a viscous gel lubricant, a solid
lubricant and a shapeable lubricant.
[0029]         In some embodiments,        antimicrobial lubricant 60 comprises oil
lubricant. The oil lubricant can be polydimethyl siloxane, polytrifluoropropylmethyl
                                       6

siloxane, or a copolymer of dimethylsiloxane and trifluoropropylmethylsiloxane. The
viscosity of the oil lubricant can be from 20 cp to 1,000,000 cp. In some
embodiments, a solvent is added to the oil lubricant with very high viscosity to
facilitate application of the antimicrobial lubricant.
[0030]           Antimicrobial lubricant 60 may be applied to outer surface 54 by
dipping, brushing, spraying, or any other compatible techniques known in the art. In
some embodiments, excess antimicrobial lubricant 60 is applied to outer surface 54
prior to assembling needle 50 into catheter assembly 10.         Needle 50 is inserted
through septum 20 and into catheter 40 by providing an enlarged pathway through
septum 20. In this way, antimicrobial lubricant 60 is not displaced from outer surface
54 during assembly.
[0031]           For example, in some embodiments a threader (not shown) is inserted
into opening 36 and through slit 26 of septum to bias slit 26 into an enlarged, opened
position.    The enlarged, opened position of slit 26 is generally greater than the
diameter of the coated portion of introducer needle 50.         The coated portion of
introducer needle 50 is threaded through slit 26 via the threader, and advanced
through lumen 44 of catheter 40 until beveled tip 42 extends beyond catheter tip 52.
Once in position, the threader is removed from slit 26 and catheter adapter 30. The
resilient nature of septum 20 allows slit 26 to resume its closed position around outer
surface 54.
[0032]           Antimicrobial lubricant 60 generally comprises an antimicrobial or
biocidal agent effective against various forms and strains of bacteria which may cause
infection within a patient. The terms "biocidal agent" or "biocide," as used herein
refer to an agent that destroys, inhibits and/or prevents the propagation, growth,
colonization and multiplication of unwanted organisms.          The term "organism"
includes, but is not limited to, microorganisms, bacteria, undulating bacteria,
spirochetes,    spores, spore-forming     organisms, gram-negative   organisms,  gram
positive organisms, yeasts, fungi, molds, viruses, aerobic organisms, anaerobic
organisms and mycobacteria. Specific examples of such organisms include the fungi
Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus flavus, Rhizopus nigricans, Cladosproriumherbarium,
Epidermophytonfloccosum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Histoplasma capsulatum,
and the like; bacteria such as Pseudomanas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Proteus
vulgaris, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermis, Streptococcus faecalis,
                                         7

Klebsiella, Enterobacter aerogenes, Proteus mirabilis, other gram-negative bacteria
and other gram-positive bacteria, mycobactin and the like; and yeast such as
Saccharomcyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, and the like. Additionally, spores of
microorganisms, viruses and the like are organisms within the scope of the present
invention.
[0033]         Antimicrobial or biocide agents suitable for use in the present
invention include, but are not limited to phenol, quaternary ammonium, guanidine,
taurolidine, parachlorometaxylenol, silver sulfadiazine, silver oxide, silver nitrate,
pyridinium, benzalkonium chloride, cetrimide, benethonium chloride, cetylpyridinium
chloride, dequalinium acetate, dequalinium chloride, and chloroxylenol. Further, in
some embodiments lubricant 60 comprises a microbial                  agent selected from
chlorhexidine base, chlorhexidine gluconate, chlorhexidine acetate, chlorhexidine
hydrochloride,    chlorhexidine dihydrochloride,       dibromopropamidine,     halogenated
diphenylalkanes,        carbanilide,        salicylanilide,       tetrachlorosalicylanilide,
trichlorocarbanilide, and mixtures thereof.         Still further, in some embodiments
lubricant 60 comprises a microbial agent selected from chlorhexidine dihydrochloride,
chlorhexidine gluconate, chlorhexidine acetate, chlorhexidine diacetate, triclosan,
chloroxylenol, dequalinium chloride, benzethonium chloride, benzalkonium chloride,
and combinations thereof.      The antimicrobial agent can be solid particles that are
insoluable in the lubricant or in liquid form. The antimicrobial agent is well mixed
within the lubricant prior to application to introducer needles.
[0034]         In    some    embodiments,     lubricant    60 comprises     one   or more
antimicrobial agents in an amount from approximately 0.01 % (w/v) to approximately
10.0% (w/v) of lubricant 60. In other embodiments, lubricant 60 comprises one or
more antimicrobial agents in an amount from approximately 0.001% (w/v) to
approximately 5.0% (w/v) of lubricant 70. Further, in some embodiments lubricant
60 comprises one or more antimicrobial agents in an amount from approximately
0.01% to approximately 10.0% (w/v).
[0035]         In some embodiments, lubricant 60 further comprises one or more
fugitive solvents, such as tetrahydrofuran (THF), methylethylketone (MEK) and
hexane solvents. In some embodiments, lubricant 60 comprises a fugitive solvent in
an amount approximately equal to 70% (w/v) of lubricant 60. In other embodiments,
lubricant 60 comprises two or more fugitive solvents.
                                        8

[0036]          In other embodiments, lubricant 60 comprises one or more alcohol
components.    Suitable alcohol components generally include a lower alcohol having
between one and six carbons (C1-C6). In some embodiments, lubricant 60 comprises
an alcohol component        selected from the group consisting of ethyl alcohol,
isopropanol, propanol, and butanol. In other embodiments, lubricant 60 comprises
two or more lower alcohol components, for example a mixture of isopropyl alcohol
and ethyl alcohol in a ratio of about 1:10 to about 1:1. Further, in some embodiments
lubricant 70 comprises a mixture of more than two alcohol components.
[0037]          In some embodiments, lubricant 60 comprises an alcohol component in
an amount approximately equal to 40% (w/v) of lubricant 60. In other embodiments,
lubricant 60 comprises an alcohol component in an amount from approximately 20%
(w/v) to approximately 95% (w/v).
[0038]          In some embodiments, antimicrobial lubricant 60 further comprises a
lubricant, such as silicon oil. In some embodiments, introducer needle 50 is coated
with a high viscosity antimicrobial lubricant 60 to reduce adhesion between the needle
50 and the catheter tip 42, as well as between the needle 50 and the septum 20. Upon
withdrawing needle 50 from catheter 40 and septum 20, slit 26 of septum 20 rubs
against the outer surface 54 of the needle 50, thereby removing excess lubricant 60, as
shown in Figure 2.
[0039]          In some embodiments, antimicrobial lubricant 60 further comprises an
anti-thrombogenic agent.     An anti-thrombogenic agent is provided to decrease the
likelihood of blood clotting within catheter assembly 10.    In some instances, an anti
thrombogenic agent is provided to decrease the likelihood of blood clotting within
forward chamber 32 or on any surface coated by antimicrobial lubricant 60.
[0040]          Referring now to Figure 2, catheter assembly 10 is shown having
introducer needle 50 partially withdrawn. In some embodiments, excess antimicrobial
lubricant 60 is "squeegeed" or removed from outer surface 54 as needle 50 is
withdrawn through slit 26 of septum 20 in proximal direction 12. Excess lubricant 60
collects within forward chamber 32 thereby providing a barrier between membrane 24
and forward chamber 32. This barrier will kill microorganisms that come in contact
with and/or in close proximity of lubricant        preventing    microbial growth and
colonization on membrane 24 and generally within forward chamber 32.
                                        9

[0041]           Upon complete withdrawal of introducer needle 50 from septum 20,
slit 26 self-closes thereby providing a further physical barrier between forward and
rearward chambers 32 and 34, as shown in Figure 3. The barrier provided by excess
antimicrobial lubricant 60 may further migrate to other surfaces in close proximity of
the septum thus provide antimicrobial protection to the inside surfaces of the catheter
beyond the septum.
[0042]           In some embodiments, slit 26 of blood control septum 20 comprises a
tri-slit configuration, as shown in Figure 4. Following removal of needle 50, excess
antimicrobial lubricant 60 is deposited on membrane 24 thereby covering slit 26.
Antimicrobial lubricant 60 prevents colonization and growth of pathogens on
membrane 24.
[0043]           In some embodiments, excess antimicrobial lubricant 60 migrates into
slit 26 thereby filling any gaps or openings in slit 26, as shown in Figure 5. In this
manner, excess antimicrobial lubricant 60 assists septum 20 in preventing flow of
fluids between forward and rearward chambers 32 and 34.
[0044]           Some implementations of the present invention further include a
method for lubricant a septum of a blood control catheter with antimicrobial needle
lube, as outline in Figure 6.    In some instances, a first step lubricant the septum
comprises applying an antimicrobial lubricant to an outer surface of an introducer
needle (at step 100). The coated needle is then inserted through the slit of a septum
disposed within a catheter assembly (at step 200). In some instances, a threader is
first inserted into the slit of the septum to provide an enlarged opening.      In this
manner, the antimicrobial lubricant is prevented from being displaced during the
assembly of the device. Once positioned within the catheter assembly, the threader is
removed from the slit and the device is ready for use.
[0045]           The septum is coated as the needle is withdrawn from the septum and
the catheter assembly device (at step 300). As the needle is withdrawn, the slit of the
septum squeegees excess antimicrobial lubricant from the outer surface of the needle.
This excess antimicrobial lubricant is deposited on membrane and slit portions of the
septum.     In some instances, excess antimicrobial lubricant is deposited within a
forward chamber of the catheter assembly device to form an additional barrier
between the septum and the vasculature of the patient.
                                       10

[0046]          The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without
departing from its structures, methods, or other essential characteristics as broadly
described herein and claimed hereinafter. For example, the present invention may be
applied to any dermally invasive device, such as needles,             scalpels, trocars,
endoscopes, stoma appliances, and the like. The described embodiments are to be
considered in all respects only as illustrative, and not restrictive. The scope of the
invention is, therefore, indicated by the appended claims, rather than by the foregoing
description. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of
the claims are to be embraced within their scope.
                                        11

CLAIMS:
1.      A catheter assembly, comprising:
        a catheter adapter having a proximal end, a distal end, and a fluid pathway extending
therebetween;
        a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end, the proximal end of the catheter
being coupled to the distal end of the catheter adapter, the catheter having a lumen in fluid
communication with the fluid pathway;
        a septum disposed within the fluid pathway thereby dividing the fluid pathway into a
forward chamber and a rearward chamber, the septum having a slit;
        a needle having a base, a tip, and a body extending therebetween;
        an amount of an antimicrobial lubricant applied to at least a portion of an outer surface
of the body of the needle distal to a distal end of the septum when the needle extends beyond
the distal end of the catheter, wherein the amount of antimicrobial lubricant is spaced apart
from the catheter and catheter adapter when the needle extends beyond the distal end of the
catheter, wherein as the needle is withdrawn proximally through the slit of the septum, the
septum removes the antimicrobial lubricant from the needle thereby depositing the
antimicrobial lubricant on a distal side of the septum.
2.      The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the slit comprises a tri-slit configuration.
3.      The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the antimicrobial lubricant comprises at
least one of a water soluble lubricant, an insoluble lubricant, a viscous gel lubricant, or a solid
lubricant.
4.      The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the antimicrobial lubricant comprises an oil
lubricant such as polydimethyl siloxane, polytrifluoropropylmethyl siloxane, or a copolymer
of dimethylsiloxane and trifluoropropylmethylsiloxane.
5.      The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the antimicrobial lubricant comprises an
antimicrobial agent.
                                                 12

6.     The catheter assembly of claim 5, wherein the antimicrobial agent is at least one of
chlorhexidine dihydrochloride, chlorhexidine gluconate, chlorhexidine acetate, chlorhexidine
diacetate, triclosan, chloroxylenol, dequalinium chloride, benzethonium chloride, and
benzalkonium chloride.
7.     The catheter assembly of claim 5, wherein the antimicrobial lubricant further
comprises at least one of a fugitive solvent component, an alcohol component, a polymer
component, and an antimicrobial agent.
8.     The catheter assembly of claim 5, wherein the antimicrobial agent is a non-alcohol
based antimicrobial agent.
9.     The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the antimicrobial lubricant is insoluble in
water.
10.    The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the antimicrobial lubricant is water soluble.
11.    The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the antimicrobial agent is present in an
amount from approximately 0.001% (w/v) to approximately 10.0% (w/v).
12.    The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the antimicrobial agent is at least one of
chlorhexidine dihydrochloride, chlorhexidine gluconate, chlorhexidine acetate, chlorhexidine
diacetate, triclosan, chloroxylenol, dequalinium chloride, benzethonium chloride, and
benzalkonium chloride.
13.    The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the alcohol component comprises a lower
alcohol having between one and six carbon atoms.
14.    The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the alcohol component is present within the
antimicrobial lubricant in an amount approximately equal to 20% (w/v).
                                               13

15.     The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the alcohol component comprises a mixture
of isopropyl alcohol and ethanol, and is present within the antimicrobial lubricant in an
amount from approximately 40% (w/v) to approximately 95% (w/v).
16.     The catheter assembly of claim 7, wherein the antimicrobial lubricant comprises an
alcohol component that is present within the antimicrobial lubricant in an amount from
approximately 20% (w/v) to approximately 95% (w/v).
17.     A method for applying an antimicrobial lubricant to a distal surface of a septum of a
catheter assembly, the method comprising:
        placing a needle within a slit of the septum such that a distal portion of the needle is
positioned distally to the septum and a proximal portion of the needle is positioned proximally
to the septum;
        applying an antimicrobial lubricant to an outer surface of the distal portion of the
needle; and
        withdrawing the needle from the slit of the septum in a proximal direction such that, as
the needle passes through the slit in the septum, the slit removes a portion of the antimicrobial
lubricant from the outer surface of the distal portion of the needle to form a deposit of the
antimicrobial lubricant on the septum at a location proximate to the slit.
18.     The method of claim 17, wherein the slit comprises a tri-slit configuration.
19.     The method of claim 17, wherein the antimicrobial agent comprises at least one of a
water soluble lubricant, an insoluble lubricant, a viscous gel lubricant, and a solid lubricant.
                                                 14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
