                                         ABSTRACT
A pharmaceutical composition which comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a
aminopyridine dispersed in a release matrix, including, for example, a composition that can
be formulated into a stable, sustained-release oral dosage formulation, such as a tablet which
provides, upon administration to a patient, a therapeutically effective plasma level of the
aminopyridine for a period of at about 12 hours and the use of the composition to treat
various neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis. A method of selecting individuals
based on responsiveness to a treatment, including, for example, identifying individuals who
responded to treatment with a sustained release fampridine composition. See Figure 10.

WO 2005/099701                                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
                                                       10/12
        35-                    Treatment means over time
                                                                **
        30 ----------------------------                  --    - - -- - -----         - - -
        2---5-
        20
            25--
               --                 - - - **------
                               -------------------
        0V)
                                  -0-    Placebo (N=47)
   i    15 -----------            --     Farypridine Non-responders (N=100)
                                  ---    Farrpridine Responders (N=58)
        10        -         --            -
         50 -- - - -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                      - - -
    E    0
        -5 - --------------                                                         - -
       -10
                    titration           1st stable           2nd stable         3rd stable
      *: Significantly better than placebo and fampridine non-responders (p <0.001 for each).
      *: Significantly better than fampridine non-responders.
                                                   Fig. 10

     WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
          METHODS OF USING SUSTAINED RELEASE AMINOPYRIDINE
                                      COMPOSITIONS
                                   CROSS REFERENCES
        [0001]   This application claims priority to U.S.        Provisional Application No.
60/560,894 filed April 9, 2004.
                                       BACKGROUND
        [0002]   This invention relates a sustained release oral dosage form of an
aminopyridine pharmaceutical composition that can be used to treat individuals affected with
neurological disorders wherein said pharmaceutical composition maximizes the therapeutic
effect, while minimizing adverse side effects.
        [0003]   The sustained release oral dosage form of the present invention may be
utilized to treat neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injuries,
Alzheimer's disease and ALS.
        [0004]   Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a degenerative and inflammatory neurological
disease that affects the central nervous system, more specifically the myelin sheath. The
condition of MS involves demyelination of nerve fibers resulting in "short-circuiting" of
nerve impulses and thus a slowing or blocking of transmission along the nerve fibers, with
associated disabling symptoms.      Treatment alternatives for promoting transmission along
affected nerves have thus far been limited.
        [0005]   Potassium channel blockers are a class of compounds that has been found to
improve the conduction of nerve impulses.        As a result, they have become the focus of
attention in the symptomatic treatment of spinal cord injury, MS and Alzheimer's disease.
One sub-class of potassium channel blockers, aminopyridines have shown promise in the
treatment of neurological diseases. 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a mono-aminopyridine known
as fampridine, has been found to reduce the potassium flow in nerve impulse transmission
                                               -1-

     WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
and, thereby, shows effectiveness in restoring conduction in blocked and demyelinated
nerves.
        [0006]    Early studies of monoaminopyridines were conducted using an intravenous
composition,     comprising 4-AP.          This was followed by the development           of an
immediate-release (IR) composition for oral administration of 4-AP, commonly known as
fampridine. The IR composition consisted of 4-AP powder in a gelatin-based capsule and
produced rapid peak plasma concentrations shortly after dosing with a time to maximum
concentration of about 1 hour and a plasma half life of about 3.5 hours. The rapid release and
short half life of fampridine makes it difficult to maintain effective plasma levels without
producing high peaks following each dose that may cause undesirable side effects such as
 seizures and trembling.
         [0007]   Electrophysiological recordings from isolated spinal cord have shown
chronic failure of action potential conduction in surviving myelinated axons, following a
blunt contusion injury (Blight, A.R., "Axonal physiology of chronic spinal cord injury in the
 cat: intracellular recording in vitro", Neuroscience. 10:1471-1486 (1983b)).      Some of this
 conduction block can be overcome, at the level of single nerve fibers, using the drug 4
 aminopyridine (4-AP) (Blight, A.R., "Effect of 4-aminopyridine on axonal conduction-block
 in chronic spinal cord injury", Brain Res. Bull. 22:47-52 (1989)). Intravenous injection of
 this compound in animals with experimental or naturally occurring spinal cord injuries
 produces significant improvements in electrophysiological (Blight, A.R. and Gruner, J.A.,
 "Augmentation by 4-aminopyridine of vestibulospinal free fall responses in chronic spinal
 injured cats," J. Neurol. Sci. 82:145-159, (1987)) and behavior function (Blight, A.R., "The
 effects of 4-aminopyridine on neurological deficits in chronic cases of traumatic spinal cord
 injury in dogs: a phase I clinical trial," J. Neurotrauma, 8:103-119 (1991)).
                                                   -2-

     WO 2005/099701                                                      PCT/US2005/012427
        [0008]   An initial study in spinal cord injury patients was organized by Dr. Keith
Hayes and indicated a potential for a therapeutic benefit, mostly at the electrophysiological
level, combined with a lack of serious side effects (Hayes et al, "Effects of intravenous 4
aminopyridine on neurological function in chronic spinal cord injured patients: preliminary
observations," Proc. IBRO World Conf. Neurosci., p. 345 1991).
        [0009]    A recent study of fampridine in patients with chronic incomplete SCI was
reported in Clinical Neuropharmacology 2003: Keith C. Hayes; Patrick J. Potter; Robert R.
Hansebout; Joanne M. Bugaresti; Jane T. C. Hsieh; Sera Nicosia; Mitchell A. Katz; Andrew
R. Blight; Ron Cohen 26(4):185-192.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0010]   One embodiment of the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical
 composition which contains one or more potassium channel blockers and which can be used
 in the effective treatment of various diseases, for example, spinal cord injury, multiple
 sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and ALS. Embodiments of the present invention are directed
 to compositions that include a matrix and a potassium channel blocker. The potassium
 channel blockers may include aminopyridines, for example, 4-aminopyridine,                3,4
 diaminopyridine and the like, most preferably 4-aminopyridine. The composition provides
 for sustained-release of the aminopyridine from the matrix to maintain the efficacious and
 safe plasma level of an aminopyridine. The aminopyridine dispersed in the matrix is capable
 of providing, upon administration to a patient, a desired release profile. The composition
 may be used to establish in patients in need of such treatment, a therapeutically effective
 blood plasma level of the aminopyridine for a period of at least about 6 hours and preferably
 up to at least about 12 hours in the patient in a twice-daily administration while avoiding
 excessive peaks and troughs in the level of the aminopyridine. The composition may include
                                               -1-

     WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
a mono- or di-aminopyridine, preferably 4-AP or 3,4-DAP or a combination thereof,
homogeneously dispersed in a rate-controlling polymer matrix, preferably including a
hydrophilic polymer like hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC). The composition of the
present invention may also include one or more additional active ingredients and/or one or
more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.        These compositions can be used to treat
various neurological diseases, for example, spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's
disease, and ALS.
         [0011]   Another embodiment of the present invention is a stable pharmaceutical
composition that comprises a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine dispersed
in a matrix that provides a release profile of the aminopyridine to a patient that has a desired
Cmax to C, ratio. The composition may be used to establish and/or maintain in a patient, a
therapeutically effective level of the aminopyridine.     Preferably the aminopyridine in the
composition is released over time so that a therapeutically effective level of the
aminopyridine in the patient can be achieved with twice daily dosing of the composition. In a
more preferred embodiment, undesirable spikes or peaks in the release of the aminopyridine
are avoided.
         [0012]   Another embodiment of the present invention is a stable, sustained-release
 oral dosage formulation of a composition which includes a therapeutically effective amount
 of a 4-aminopyridine dispersed in a matrix that provides a release profile of 4-aminopyridine
 in the blood plasma of the patient extending over a period of at least 6 hours, preferably at
 least 8 hours, and more preferably, at least about 12 hours. In another embodiment, a stable,
 sustained-release oral dosage formulation of a composition includes a therapeutically
 effective amount of a 4-aminopyridine dispersed in a matrix that provides a therapeutically
 effective blood plasma level of 4-aminopyridine in the patient extending over about 24 hours.
                                                -4-

     WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
        [0013]  Preferably, the oral dosage formulation of the composition is a monolithic
tablet formed by compression of the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. In
preferred embodiments, the oral dosage formulation includes a compressed tablet of a
therapeutically effective amount of 4-aminopyridine dispersed in matrix that includes a
hydrophilic polymer such as HPMC. The oral dosage form of the present invention may also
include one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
        [0014]   The dispersion of 4-aminopyridine throughout the matrix imparts chemical
and physical stability to the composition while providing a sustained-release profile. This
enhanced dosage stability is most notably observed in compositions and dosage forms of the
present invention having low concentrations of 4-aminopyridine, and stability is achieved
while maintaining the desired controlled-release profile. Specifically, the compressed tablet
formulation of the present invention exhibits superior resistance to moisture absorption by
ambient humidity and maintains a uniform distribution of the 4-aminopyridine throughout the
tablet while providing a release profile of 4-aminopyridine that permits establishment of a
therapeutically effective concentration of the potassium channel blocker with once daily or
twice daily dosing of the formulation. Preferably the therapeutically effective concentration
released by the formulation extends over at least about 6 hours, preferably at least about 8
hours, and more preferably at least about 12 hours.       In addition, the homogeneity of the
dosage form renders it amenable to formation by simple and inexpensive manufacturing
processes as compared with the multi-layered structure of prior sustained-release dosage
formulations.
        [0015]   The compositions of the present invention may be used in the treatment of a
condition in a patient that includes establishing a therapeutically effective concentration of a
potassium channel blocker in the patient in need thereof. The compositions may be used for
building up a level and or maintaining a therapeutically effective concentration of an
                                               -5-

     WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
aminopyridine in the patient by twice daily dosing. The dosages of the present compositions
can be made with a lower concentration of the aminopyridine to facilitate restful periods for
the patient during the day or night, depending on desired results or dosage schedule. Where
desirable, the compositions of the present invention may be formulated to avoid large peaks
in initial release of the aminopyridine. The compositions of the present invention when
administered to a patient in need thereof provide for the treatment of neurological diseases
that are characterized by a degradation of nerve impulse transmission.          Preferably, the
compositions are a stable, sustained-release tablet of a therapeutically effective amount of a
mono- or di-aminopyridine, dispersed in HPMC such that therapeutically effective blood
plasma level of the mono- or di-aminopyridine is maintained in the patient for a period of at
least 6 hours, preferably at least 8 hours, and more preferably at least about 10-12 hours in a
once or twice daily administration.
        [0016]    One embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of increasing
walking speed comprising administering to a patient with multiple sclerosis an effective
amount of a sustained release aminopyridine composition twice daily, wherein said effective
amount is less than about 15 milligrams of aminopyridine. In a preferred embodiment, the
effective amount is about 10 to about 15 milligrams of aminopyridine.
        [0017]    In a further embodiment of the present invention a method of improving
lower extremity muscle tone comprising administering to a patient with multiple sclerosis an
effective amount of a sustained-release aminopyridine composition twice daily is provided.
In a preferred embodiment, said effective amount is less than about 15 milligrams of
aminopyridine.
        [0018]    Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of
improving lower extremity muscle strength comprising administering to a patient with
                                               -6-

     WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
multiple sclerosis an effective amount of a sustained-release aminopyridine composition
twice daily, wherein said effective amount is less than about 15 milligrams of aminopyridine.
        [0019]   One embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of selecting
individuals based on responsiveness to a treatment. The method comprises identifying a
plurality of individuals; administering a test to each individual prior to a treatment period;
administering a treatment to one or more of the individuals during the treatment period;
administering the test a plurality of times to each individual during the treatment period; and
selecting one or more individuals, wherein the selected individuals exhibit an improved
performance during a majority of the tests administered during the treatment period as
compared to the test administered prior to the treatment period. In certain embodiments, the
method may further comprise administering the test to each individual after the treatment
period, wherein the selected individuals further exhibit an improved performance during a
majority of the tests administered during the treatment period as compared to the test
administered after the treatment period.
        [0020]   A further embodiment relates to a method of selecting individuals based on
responsiveness to a treatment, the method comprising identifying a plurality of individuals;
administering a test to each individual prior to a treatment period; administering a treatment
to one or more of the individuals during the treatment period; administering the test a
plurality of times to each individual during the treatment period; administering the test to
 each individual after the treatment period; and selecting one or more individuals, wherein the
 selected individuals exhibit an improved performance during a majority of the tests
 administered during the treatment period as compared to the better performance of the test
 administered prior to the treatment period and the test administered after the treatment period.

      WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           [0021]  Figure 1 is a histogram to show the number of treatment visits at which
  subjects showed faster walking speed on the timed 25 foot walk than at all of the five non
 treatment visits.
          [0022]   Figure 2 is a graph of the average walking speeds (ft/sec) by study day
 (observed cases, ITT population).
          [0023]   Figure 3 is a histogram of the percent change in average walking speed
 during the 12-week stable dose period (observed cases, ITT population).
          [0024]   Figure 4 is a histogram of the percentage of protocol specified responders
 (subjects with average changes in walking speed during the 12-week stable dose period of at
 least 20%) by treatment group [(observed cases, ITT population]).
          [0025]   Figure 5 is a graph of LEMMT by study day (observed cases, ITT
population).
          [0026]   Figure 6 is a histogram of change in LEMMT during the 12-week stable dose
period (observed cases, ITT population).
         [0027]    Figure 7 is a histogram of the percentage of post hoc responders by treatment
group (ITT population) according to a responder analysis of the present invention.
         [0028]    Figure 8 is a histogram of the percentage of responders for placebo subjects
vs. fampridine subjects pooled (ITT population) according to a responder analysis of the
present invention.
         [0029]   Figure 9 are histograms of the validation of the post hoc responder variable
using subjective scales (observed cases, ITT population).
         [0030]   Figure 10 is a graph of percent change in walking speed at each double-blind
visit by responder analysis grouping (observed cases, ITT population).
                                                -8-

     WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
         [0031]   Figure 11 is a graph of the change in LEMMT at each double-blind visit by
responder analysis grouping (observed cases, ITT population).
         [0032]    Figure 12 is a graph of change in overall Ashworth Score at each double
blind visit by responder analysis grouping (observed cases, ITT population).
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         [0033]    Before the present compositions and methods are described, it is to be
understood that this invention is not limited to the particular molecules, compositions,
methodologies or protocols described, as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the
terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or
embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will
be limited only by the appended claims.
          [0034]   The terms used herein have meanings recognized and known to those of skill
in the art, however, for convenience and completeness, particular terms and their meanings
 are set forth below.
          [0035]   It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the
 singular forms "a", "an", and "the" include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates
 otherwise.    Thus, for example, reference to a "spheroid" is a reference to one or more
 spheroid and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art, and so forth. Unless
 defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as
 commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.          Although any methods and
 materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing
 of embodiments of the present invention, the preferred methods, devices, and materials are
 now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing
                                                -9-

    WO 2005/099701                                                             PCT/US2005/012427
herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such
disclosure by virtue of prior invention.
        [0036]    "Local administration" means direct administration by a non-systemic route
at or in the vicinity of the site of affliction, disorder, or perceived pain.
        [0037]      The terms "patient" and "subject" mean all animals including humans.
Examples of patients or subjects include humans, cows, dogs, cats, goats, sheep, and pigs.
        [0038]    The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salts, esters, amides, and prodrugs"
as used herein refers to those carboxylate salts, amino acid addition salts, esters, amides, and
prodrugs of the compounds of the present invention which are, within the scope of sound
medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of patients without undue
toxicity, irritation, allergic response, and the like, commensurate with a reasonable
benefit/risk ratio, and effective for their intended use, as well as the zwitterionic forms, where
possible, of the compounds of the invention.
         [0039]   The term "prodrug" refers to compounds that are rapidly transformed in vivo
to yield the parent compounds of the above formula, for example, by hydrolysis in blood. A
thorough discussion is provided in T. Higuchi and V. Stella, "Pro-drugs as Novel Delivery
Systems," Vol. 14 of the A.C.S. Symposium Series, and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug
Design, ed. Edward B. Roche, American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press,
 1987, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
         [0040]   The term "salts" refers to the relatively non-toxic, inorganic and organic acid
addition salts of compounds of the present invention. These salts can be prepared in situ
during the final isolation and purification of the compounds or by separately reacting the
purified compound in its free base form with a suitable organic or inorganic acid and
isolating the salt thus formed. Representative salts include the hydrobromide, hydrochloride,
sulfate, bisulfate, nitrate, acetate, oxalate, valerate, oleate, palmitate, stearate, laurate, borate,
                                                   -10-

      WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
benzoate, lactate, phosphate, tosylate, citrate, maleate, fumarate,           succinate, tartrate,
naphthylate mesylate, glucoheptonate, lactobionate and laurylsulphonate salts, and the like.
These may include cations based on the alkali and alkaline earth metals, such as sodium,
lithium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and the like, as well as non-toxic ammonium,
tetramethylammonium,            tetramethylammonium,         methlyamine,         dimethlyamine,
trimethlyamine, triethlyamine, ethylamine, and the like. (See, for example, S.M. Barge et al.,
"Pharmaceutical Salts," J. Pharm. Sci., 1977, 66:1-19 which is incorporated herein by
reference.).
          [0041]   A "therapeutically effective amount" is an amount sufficient to decrease or
prevent the symptoms associated with a medical condition or infirmity, to normalize body
 functions in disease or disorders that result in impairment of specific bodily functions, or to
 provide improvement in one or more of the clinically measured parameters of the disease.
 Preferably, improvement in symptoms associated with the disease including walking speed,
 lower extremity muscle tone, lower extremity muscle strength, or spasticity. As related to the
 present application, a therapeutically effective amount is an amount sufficient to reduce the
 pain or spasticity associated with the neurological disorder being treated, or an amount
  sufficient to result in improvement of sexual, bladder or bowel function in subjects having a
 neurological disorder which impairs nerve conduction, which hinders normal sexual, bladder
  or bowel functions.
           [0042]   "Treatment" refers to the administration of medicine or the performance of
  medical procedures with respect to a patient, for either prophylaxis (prevention), to cure the
  infirmity or malady in the instance where the patient is afflicted refers, or amelioration the
  clinical condition of the patient, including a decreased duration of illness or severity of
  illness, or subjective improvement in the quality of life of the patient or a prolonged survival
  of the patient.
                                                -11-

     WO 2005/099701                                                          PCT/US2005/012427
         [0043]   In addition, the compounds of the present invention can exist in unsolvated
as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol,
and the like. In general, the solvated forms are considered equivalent to the unsolvated forms
for the purposes of the present invention.
         [0044]   One    aspect   of the invention is a sustained-release          pharmaceutical
composition comprising an aminopyridine dispersed in a sustained release matrix such as a
rate-controlling polymer. The composition of the present invention is capable of providing,
upon administration to a patient, a release profile of the aminopyridine extending over at least
6 hours, preferably least about 12 hours, and more preferably at least 24 hours or more.
Preferably the aminopyridine concentration in the composition is a therapeutically effective
 amount, and preferably the aminopyridine is dispersed uniformly throughout the release
matrix. A therapeutically effective amount is an amount of a potassium channel blocker,
 preferably an aminopyridine compound, that when administered to a patient or subject,
 ameliorates a symptom of a neurological disease.
          [0045]   When the compositions of the present invention are administered to a patient,
 the concentration of the aminopyridine in the patient's plasma over time (release profile) may
 extend over a period of at least 6 hours, preferably over at least 8 hours, and more preferably
 over at about 12 hours. The compositions may provide in single dose a mean maximum
 plasma concentration of aminopyridine in the patient of from about 15 to about 180 ng/ml; a
 mean Tmax from about 1 to about 6 hours, more preferably about 2 to about 5.2 hours after
  administration of the composition to the patient.
          [0046]   In one embodiment, aminopyridine is administered to a subject at a dose and
  for a period sufficient to allow said subject to tolerate said dose without showing any adverse
  effects and thereafter increasing the dose at selected intervals of time until a therapeutic dose
  is achieved. In one embodiment, the medicament is administered to a subject at a dose and
                                                 -12-

       WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
for a period sufficient to allow said subject to tolerate said dose without showing any adverse
effects and thereafter increasing the dose of aminopyridine at selected intervals of time until a
therapeutic dose is achieved. For example, at the commencement of treatment aminopyridine
is preferably administered at a dose less than 15 mg/day until a tolerable state is reached.
Suitably when said tolerable state is reached, the dose administered may be increased by
 amounts of at least 5-15 mg/day until said therapeutic dose is reached.
         [0047]   Preferably, aminopyridine is administered at a dose of about 10-15 mg twice
 daily (20-30 mg/day) depending upon the condition or symptoms being treated. The method
 can include scheduling administration of doses of the pharmaceutical so that the
 concentration of the aminopyridine in the patient is at about the minimum therapeutically
 effective level to ameliorate the neurological condition, yet relatively lower compared to the
 maximum concentration in order to enhance restful periods for the patient during the day or
 night, depending on desired results or dosage schedule. Preferably the method provides for
 the treatment of neurological diseases characterized by a degradation of nerve impulse
 transmission comprising the step of administering to a patient a composition of the present
 invention.
          [0048]   The formulations and compositions of the present invention exhibit a
  specific, desired release profile that maximizes the therapeutic effect while minimizing
  adverse side effects. The desired release profile may be described in terms of the maximum
  plasma concentration of the drug or active agent (Cmax) and the plasma concentration of the
  drug or active agent at a specific dosing interval (Ct). A ratio of Cmax to Cr (Cmax:CT) may
  be calculated from the observed Cmax and C. A dosing interval (t) is the time since the last
  administration of the drug or active agent. In the present application, the dosing interval (t) is
  twelve (12) hours, therefore C, is the concentration of the drug or active agent at twelve (12)
  hours from the last administration.
                                                 -13-

      WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
        [0049]    Additionally, the formulations and compositions of the present invention
exhibit a desired release profile that may be described in terms of the maximum plasma
concentration of the drug or active agent at steady state (Cmaxss) and the minimum plasma
concentration of the drug or active agent at steady state (Cmjnss). Steady state is observed
when the rate of administration (absorption) is equal to the rate of elimination of the drug or
active agent. A ratio of Cmaxss to Cminss (Cmaxss:Cminss) may be calculated from the observed
CmaxSs   and Cminss. In addition, the formulations and compositions of the present invention
exhibit a desired release profile that may be described in terms of the average maximum
plasma concentration of the drug or active agent at steady state (Cavss).
         [0050]    Another embodiment is a sustained release tablet of a sustained release
matrix and an aminopyridine, said tablet exhibits a release profile to obtain a Cmax:C, ratio in
 vivo of 1.0 to 3.5, and more preferably a Cmax:C, ratio of about 1.5 to about 3.0. In another
 preferred embodiment, the Cmax:C, ratio is about 2.0 to about 3.0. The aminopyridine may
 comprise 4-aminopyridine.         The sustained release matrix may include for example,
 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, or other rate controlling matrices that are suitable for
 controlling the release rate of an aminopyridine for use in the pharmaceutical compositions of
 the present invention.
          [0051]    Another embodiment is a sustained release tablet of a sustained release
 matrix and an aminopyridine, said tablet exhibits a release profile to obtain a Cmax:C, ratio in
 vivo of 1.0 to 3.5 and a Cavss of about 15 ng/ml to about 35 ng/ml, and more preferably a
 Cmax:C,   ratio of about 1.5 to about 3.0. In another preferred embodiment, the Cmax:C, ratio is
  about 2.0 to about 3.0.
          [0052]    A further aspect is a sustained release composition comprising a sustained
  release matrix and an aminopyridine, wherein said composition provides a Cavss of about 15
  ng/ml to about 35 ng/ml. In a further aspect, a sustained release tablet comprising a sustained
                                                 -14-

     WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
release matrix and an aminopyridine, said tablet exhibiting a Cmaxss of about 20 ng/ml to
about 35 ng/ml is provided.        The pharmacokinetic characteristics of sustained release
aminopyridine compositions and methods of treating various neurological disorders are
described     in  co-pending     PCT/US2004/008101      entitled   "Stable    Formulations    of
Aminopyrdines and Uses Thereof' filed April 17, 2004 and U.S. Application No. 11/010,828
entitled "Sustained Release Aminopyridine Composition" filed December 13, 2004, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
         [0053]   The amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable quality aminopyridine, salt,
 solvated, or prodrug thereof included in the pharmaceutical composition of the present
 invention will vary, depending upon a variety of factors, including, for example, the specific
 potassium channel blocker used, the desired dosage level, the type and amount of rate
 controlling polymer matrix used, and the presence, types and amounts of additional materials
 included in the composition. Preferably, the aminopyridine comprises from about 0.1 to
 about 13%w/w, more preferably from about 0.5 to about 6.25 %w/w.              In an even more
 preferable embodiment of the present invention the aminopyridine is present from about 0.5
 to 4.75 %w/w of the pharmaceutical composition. Accordingly, a weight percentage less
 than about 4.75% is desired. The amount of aminopyridine, or a derivative thereof, in the
 formulation varies depending on the desired dose for efficient drug delivery, the molecular
 weight, and the activity of the compound. The actual amount of the used drug can depend on
 the patient's age, weight, sex, medical condition, disease or any other medical criteria. The
  actual drug amount is determined according to intended medical use by techniques known in
  the art.   The pharmaceutical dosage formulated according to the invention may be
  administered once or more times per day, preferably two or fewer times per day as
  determined by the attending physician.
                                              -15-

     WO 2005/099701                                                          PCT/US2005/012427
        [0054]    Suitable formulations and methods of manufacture are further described in
co-pending PCT/US2004/008101 entitled "Stable Formulations of Aminopyrdines and Uses
Thereof' filed April 17, 2004 and U.S. Application No. 11/010,828 entitled "Sustained
Release Aminopyridine Composition" filed December 13, 2004, the contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
        [0055]    The release matrix aminopyridine formulation is preferably fabricated into
tablets, capsules or granules for oral use. The rate of aminopyridine release from the tablets
may be controlled by the erosion mechanism of the release matrix from which aminopyridine
is released. In general, for producing a tablet on an industrial scale, the drug and polymer are
granulated alone or in combination. Preferably the release of the aminopyridine from the
matrix of the pharmaceutical composition is relatively linear over time. Preferably the matrix
provides a release profile that gives a therapeutically effective concentration of the
aminopyridine in the plasma of the patient permitting a once per day or twice per day dosing.
Preferably the sustained release aminopyridine formulation for oral administration to patients
includes from about 0.0001 mole to about 0.0013 mole aminopyridine that provides a mean
maximum plasma concentration of aminopyridine from about 15 to about 180 ng/ml, a mean
Tmax of about 2 to about 5 hours after administration, and a mean minimum plasma
concentration of from about 10 to 60 ng/ml at about 8-24 hours after administration.
        [0056]    The formulations of the invention are prepared by procedures known in the
art, such as, for example, by the dry or wet method. The method selected for manufacturing
affects the release characteristics of the finished tablet. In one method, for example, the
tablet is prepared by wet granulation in the presence of either water or an aqueous solution of
the hydrophilic polymer or using other binder as a granulating fluid. In alternative, organic
solvent, such as isopropyl alcohol, ethanol and the like, may be employed with or without
water. The drug and polymer may be granulated alone or in combination. Another method
                                               -16-

      WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
                                                                                               in
for preparation of the tablet which may be used requires using a drug-polymer dispersion
organic solvents in the presence or absence of water.         Where the aminopyridine or its
derivative has very low solubility in water it may be advantageous to reduce the particle size,
for example, by milling it into fine powder and in this way to control the release kinetics of
the drug and enhance its solubility.
         [0057]   The hardness of the tablets of the present invention may vary, depending on
a variety of factors, including, for example, the relative amounts and specific types of
ingredients used,, the tableting equipment employed, and the selected processing parameters.
The pressure used to prepare the tablets can influence the release profile of the aminopyridine
into the patient. The pressure used to prepare the tablets of the present invention may vary
 depending upon their surface area and the amount and particle size of aminopyridine,
 additive, excipients, or binders included in the tablet. The degree of hydration and solvation
 of the components in the composition will also be important in determining the hard ness of
 the tablets. Preferably the formed tablets have a hardness in the range of from 80-400 N, and
 more preferably from 150 to 300 N.
          [0058]   The effects of various matrices, concentrations of aminopyridine, as well as
 various excipients and additives to the composition       on the concentration of the channel
 blocker on the dissolution rate may be monitored for example using a type H dissolution
 apparatus according to U.S. Pharmacopoeia XXII, or USP Apparatus II (Paddle Method).
 Clinical evaluations may be used to study the effects on plasma levels of various release
 matrices, concentrations of aminopyridine, as well as various excipients and additives.
 Plasma aminopyridine concentrations may be used to calculate pharmacokinetic data (release
  profiles) including apparent absorption and elimination rates, area-under-the curve (AUC),
  maximum plasma concentration        (Cmax), time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax),
  absorption half-life (T1 2(abs)), and elimination half-life (T1 2 (elim)).   Pharmacodynamic
                                                -17-

      WO 2005/099701                                                          PCT/US2005/012427
effects may be assessed based upon response tests, such as muscle strength improvement or
reduction in spasticity for patients with multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injury or other tests
as would be known to those skilled in the art. Plasma aminopyridine concentration in blood
plasma or cerebral spinal fluid may be monitored using liquid chromatography/MS/MS assay
methods.
          [0059]   The drug delivery of the invention can utilize any suitable dosage unit form.
 Specific examples of the delivery system of the invention are tablets, tablets that disintegrate
into granules, capsules, sustained release microcapsules, spheroids, or any other means that
 allow for oral administration. These forms may optionally be coated with pharmaceutically
 acceptable coating which allows the tablet or capsule to disintegrates in various portions of
 the digestive system. For example a tablet may have an enteric coating that prevents it from
 dissolving until it reaches the more basic environment of the small intestine.
           [0060]  The dispersion of the aminopyridine throughout the release matrix imparts
 enhanced stability characteristics in the dosage formulation.        This enhanced stability is
  achieved without loss of the desired sustained-release profile. Preferably the release profile,
  which may be measured by dissolution rate is linear or approximately linear, preferably the
  release profile is measured by the concentration of the aminopyridine in the plasma in the
  patient and is such to permit twice daily (BID) dosing.
           [0061]  The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can include also
  auxiliary agents or excipients, for example, glidants, dissolution agents, surfactants, diluents,
  binders including low temperature melting binders, disintegrants, solubilizing agents and/or
  lubricants as described in co-pending PCT/US2004/008101 entitled "Stable Formulations of
   Aminopyrdines and Uses Thereof' filed April 17, 2004 and U.S. Application No. 11/010,828
   entitled "Sustained Release Aminopyridine Composition" filed December 13, 2004, the
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                                -18-

    WO 2005/099701                                                          PCT/US2005/012427
        [0062]    The active ingredient of the present invention may be mixed with excipients
which are pharmaceutically acceptable and compatible with the active ingredient and in
amounts suitable for use in the therapeutic methods described herein. Various excipients may
be homogeneously mixed with the aminopyridines of the present invention as would be
known to those skilled in the art. For example, aminopyridines may be mixed or combined
with excipients such as but not limited to microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide,
lactose, starch, sorbitol, cyclodextrin and combinations of these.
        [0063]    To further improve the stability of the aminopyridine in the sustained release
composition, an antioxidant compound can be included. Suitable antioxidants include, for
example: sodium metabisulfite;         tocopherols such as       cx, @,8-tocopherol   esters and
ax.-tocopherol acetate; ascorbic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; ascorbyl
palmitate; alkyl gallates such as propyl gallate, Tenox PG, Tenox s-1; sulfites or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; BHA; BHT; and monothioglycerol.
         [0064]   In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition of the present
invention comprises a rate-controlling polymeric matrix comprising of a hydrogel matrix.
For instance, an aminopyridine may be compressed into a dosage formulation containing a
rate-controlling polymer, such as HPMC, or mixture of polymers which, when wet, will swell
to form a hydrogel. The rate of release of the aminopyridine from this dosage formulation is
sustained both by diffusion from the swollen tablet mass and by erosion of the tablet surface
over time. The rate of release of the aminopyridine may be sustained both by the amount of
polymer per tablet and by the inherent viscosities of the polymers used.
         [0065]   According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a stable,
 sustained-release   oral dosage formulation        which includes    an effective     amount a
 aminopyridine dispersed in a release matrix, and which, upon administration to a patient or as
part of a therapy regiment, provides a release profile (of therapeutically effective blood
                                               -19-

     WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
plasma level of the aminopyridine) extending for a period of at least 6 hours, preferably at
least 12 hours.    In another embodiment, the stable, controlled-release oral dosage form
                                                                                            of
provides, upon administration to a patient, a therapeutically effective blood plasma level
the aminopyridine for a period of at least 6 hours, preferably at least 12 hours, and more
preferably at least 24 hours.
         [0066]   The dosage formulation may assume any form capable of delivering orally to
 a patient a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine dispersed in a rate
 controlling polymer. Preferably, the dosage formulation comprises a monolithic tablet.
         [0067]   Tablet weight will also vary in accordance with, among other things, the
 aminopyridine dosage, the type and amount of rate-controlling polymer used, and the
 presence, types and amounts of additional materials. Assuming 4-aminopyridine dosages of
 from about 2 mg to about 120 mg; tablet weights can range from about 50 mg to about 1200
 mg per tablet, and preferably from 250 to 500 mg, and more preferably about 400 mg.
         [0068]   The dosage formulation of the present invention may comprise also one or
 more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as mentioned above. In preferred embodiments,
 the dosage formulation will comprise diluents and a lubricant in addition to the
  aminopyridine unit dose and the rate-controlling polymer. Particularly preferred diluents is
  microcrystalline cellulose sold under the name Avicel PH101, and a particularly preferred
  lubricant is magnesium stearate. When these materials are used, the magnesium stearate
  component preferably comprises from about 0.2 to about 0.75 %w/w of the dosage
  formulation, and the microcrystalline cellulose along with the rate controlling polymer and
  aminopyridine comprises the balance of the formulation. For example, a tablet formulation
  including a aminopyridine x % w/w, a rate-controlling polymer y % w/w, and
  microcrystalline cellulose z %, the magnesium stearate amount would be (100-(x+y+z))
  where 0.2% 5 (100-(x+y+z)) < 0.75% w/w. As would be known to those skilled in the art,
                                               -20-

    WO 2005/099701                                                           PCT/US2005/012427
the amount of an additives such as magnesium stearate may vary depending upon the shear
rate used to perform the mixing and the amount of such an additive may be changed without
limitation to obtain a satisfactory dissolution rate or plasma level of the aminopyridine.
        [0069]    As used herein, the term "sustained-release"            as it relates to the
aminopyridine compositions includes the release of a aminopyridine from the dosage
formulation at a sustained rate such that a therapeutically beneficial blood level below toxic
levels of the aminopyridine is maintained over a period of at least about 12 hours, preferably
about 24 hours or more. Preferably, the amount of the aminopyridine in the oral dosage
formulations according to embodiments of the present invention establish a therapeutically
useful plasma concentration through BID administration of the pharmaceutical composition.
        [0070]    If desired, the dosage formulations of this invention may be coated with a
sustained-release polymer layer so as to provide additional sustained-release properties.
Suitable polymers that can be used to form this sustained release layer include, for example,
the release matrices listed above. As desired, the dosage formulation of the invention can be
provided also with a light-protective and/or cosmetic film coating, for example, film-formers,
pigments, anti-adhesive agents and politicizes.           Such a film-former may consist of
fast-dissolving constituents,     such as low-viscosity hydroxypropylmethylcelluose,           for
example, Methocel E5 or D14, or Pharmacoat 606 (Shin-Etsu). The film coating may also
contain excipients or enteric coatings customary in film-coating procedures, such as, for
example,    light-protective pigments, for example, iron oxide, or titanium dioxide,
anti-adhesive agents, for example, talc, and also suitable plasticizers such as, for example,
PEG 400, PEG 6000, diethyl phthalate or triethyl citrate.
        [0071]    The compositions of the present invention may be used for the treatment of
neurological diseases characterized by a degradation of nerve impulse transmission by
administering to a patient the oral dosage formulation of the present invention. Preferably,
                                                -21-

      WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
the administration is twice daily dosage of a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine, even more preferably, 4-AP dispersed in HPMC. The administration can also
include scheduling administration of doses of the pharmaceutical so that the concentration of
the aminopyridine in the patient is at about the minimum therapeutically effective level to
ameliorate the neurological condition, yet relatively low compared to the maximum
concentration in order to minimize side effects. The compositions may be administered to a
subject at a dose and for a period sufficient to allow said subject to tolerate said dose without
showing any adverse effects and thereafter increasing the dose of said active agent in the
tablets at selected intervals of time until a therapeutic dose is achieved in the subject. For
example, at the commencement of treatment the active agent is preferably administered at a
 dose less than about 15 mg/day until a tolerable state is reached. The dose administered may
then be increased by amounts of at least 5-10 mg/day until a therapeutic dose is reached,
preferably less than about 30 mg/day. For other diseases the amount of the aminopyridine
required to reach a therapeutically effective amount for treatment is described in U.S. Pat.
No. 5, 952,357 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
         [0072]   Compositions of the present invention where the potassium channel blocker
 is a mono- or di-aminopyridine active agent are particularly suitable for use in the treatment
 of a neurological disease that is characterized by demyelination of the central nervous system,
 more especially multiple sclerosis.
         [0073]   In one embodiment of the present invention, a method of treating multiple
 sclerosis is provided. Compositions of the present invention containing a therapeutically
 effective amount of mono- or di-aminopyridine active agent may be administered to a patient
 in need thereof. In particular, sustained release compositions comprising at least about 5
 milligrams of an aminopyridine, preferably 4-aminopyridine may be administered at least
 once daily. In a preferred embodiment, a sustained release composition containing from
                                                -22-

     WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
about 10 to about 15 milligrams of 4-aminopyridine is administered twice daily. Treatment
of multiple sclerosis may include increased walking speed, improved lower extremity muscle
strength or improved lower extremity muscle tone. The sustained release aminopyridine
composition is preferably administered twice daily. In certain embodiments, the composition
may be administered about every 12 hours.
        [0074]     A further embodiment is a method of increasing walking speed in patients
with multiple sclerosis comprising administering to a patient at least about 5 milligrams of a
sustained release aminopyridine composition, preferably at least about 10 to about 15
milligrams of a sustained release aminopyridine composition.
        [0075]     A further embodiment is a method of increasing muscle tone or muscle
strength in patients with multiple sclerosis comprising administering to a patient at least
about 5 milligrams of a sustained release aminopyridine composition, preferably at least
about 10 to about 15 milligrams of a sustained release aminopyridine composition.
        [0076]     Fampridine is a potential therapy for MS with a unique mechanism of action.
At concentrations of 1-2    sM  or less, fampridine appears to be a specific blocker of voltage
dependent, neuronal potassium channels that affect conduction in demyelinated axons.
Fampridine has been shown to restore action potential conduction in damaged, poorly
myelinated nerve fibers, and it may also directly enhance synaptic transmission. In previous
clinical trials, treatment with fampridine has been associated with a variety of neurological
benefits in people with MS including faster walking and increased strength, as measured by
standard neurological assessments.
        [0077]     Another aspect of the present invention provides for a method of selecting
individuals based on responsiveness to a treatment.         In one embodiment, the method
comprises identifying a plurality of individuals; administering a test to each individual prior
to a treatment period; administering a treatment, including, but not limited to administering a
                                                -23-

      WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
therapeutic agent or drug, to one or more of the individuals during the treatment period;
administering the test a plurality of times to each individual during the treatment period; and
selecting one or more individuals, wherein the selected individuals exhibit an improved
performance during a majority of the tests administered during the treatment period as
compared to the test administered prior to the treatment period. In certain embodiments, the
method may further comprise administering the test to each individual after the treatment
 period, wherein the selected individuals further exhibit an improved performance during a
 majority of the tests administered during the treatment period as compared to the test
 administered after the treatment period.
         [0078]   It is important to note that this embodiment selects subjects who show a
 pattern of change that is consistent with a treatment response, but does not define the full
 characteristics of that response.      The criterion itself does not specify the amount of
 improvement nor does it specify that the improvement must be stable over time.             For
 example, a progressive decline in effect during the course of the study period, even one
 resulting in speeds slower than the maximum non-treatment value, would not be excluded by
 the criterion; as a specific example, changes from the maximum non-treatment value of,
 respectively, +20%, +5%, + 1% and -30% during the double blind treatment period would
 qualify as a response under the criterion, but would actually show a net negative average
 change for the entire period, poor stability and a negative endpoint. Post-hoc analyses of
  studies discussed in greater detail below indicate that we may expect responders defined by
  consistency of effect also to demonstrate increased magnitude and stability of benefit.
          [0079]   We have found this embodiment particularly applicable in our analysis of
  fampridine in patients suffering from multiple sclerosis. Clinicians who regularly prescribe
  compounded fampridine for MS have reported that only a proportion of their patients appear
  to respond with clear clinical benefits, and that, in their judgment, this proportion may be
                                                -24-

      WO 2005/099701                                                           PCT/US2005/012427
around one third. This extent of responsiveness may be related to the proposed mechanism of
action, which is the restoration of conduction in demyelinated axons via the blockade of
voltage-dependent potassium channels. Only a proportion of MS patients would be expected
to possess axons of appropriate functional relevance that are susceptible to these drug effects,
given the highly variable pathology of the disease.               Currently, there is insufficient
understanding of the disease to allow for pre-trial selection of potentially responsive patients.
However, the existence of a subset of patients who respond consistently to the drug can be
supported by quantitative observations in our own clinical studies discussed below.
          [0080]    Before treatment, the subjects in these two trials exhibited average walking
speeds on the TW25 measure of approximately 2 feet per second (ft/sec).                   This is a
significant deficit, since the expected walking speed for an unaffected individual is 5-6 ft/sec.
Subjects in MS-F202 were selected for TW-25 walking time at screening of 8-60, which is
equivalent to a range in speed of 0.42-3.1 ft/sec.          Variability of functional status is an
inherent characteristic of MS, and this can be seen in repeated measurement of walking speed
over the course of weeks or months. At any of the three visits during the stable treatment
period, 15-20% of placebo-treated subjects showed >20% improvement from baseline
 walking speed, a threshold chosen as one that indicates a true change in walking speed over
 background fluctuations. A larger proportion of the Fampridine-SR treated subjects showed
 such improvements, but this difference was not statistically significant, given the sample size
 and placebo response rate.
           [0081]    Given the often large variations in function experienced by people with MS,
 it is difficult for the subject or a trained observer to separate a treatment-related improvement
 from a disease-related improvement without the element of consistency over time.
 Consistency of benefit might therefore be expected to be a more selective measure of true
 treatment effect than magnitude of change. Based on this rationale, the responses of the
                                                  -25-

      WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
individual subjects in the MS-F202 trial were examined for the degree to which their walking
speed showed improvement during the double-blind treatment period and returned towards
pre-treatment values after they were taken off drug, at follow-up. This subject-by-subject
examination yielded a subgroup of subjects whose pattern of walking speed over time
 appeared to be consistent with a drug response. This led to the analysis illustrated in Figure
 1. This compares the placebo and Fampridine-SR treated groups with respect to the number
 of visits during the double-blind treatment period in which walking speed on the TW25 was
 faster than the maximum speed out of all five of the non-treatment visits (four visits prior to
 randomization and one follow-up visit after the drug treatment period).
         [0082]    The placebo-treated group showed a clear pattern of exponential decline in
 numbers of subjects with higher numbers of "positive" visits.          This is what would be
 expected from a random process of variability. In contrast, the pattern of response in the
 Fampridine-SR treated group strongly diverged from this distribution; much larger numbers
 of Fampridine-SR treated subjects showed three or four visits with higher walking speeds
 than the maximum speed of all five non-treatment visits and less than half of the expected
 proportion had no visits with higher speeds. These results indicate that there was a sub
  population of subjects in the Fampridine-SR treated group that experienced a consistent
  increase in walking speed related to treatment.
          [0083]   This analysis suggests that a relatively highly selective criterion for a likely
  treatment responder would be: a subject with a faster walking speed for at least three (i.e.,
  three or four) of the four visits during the double blind treatment period compared to the
  maximum value for all five of the non-treatment visits. The four visits before initiation of
  double-blind treatment provide an initial baseline against which to measure the consistency of
  response during the four treatment visits. The inclusion of the follow-up visit as an additional
  component of the comparison was found valuable primarily in excluding those subjects who
                                                -26-

      WO 2005/099701                                                          PCT/US2005/012427
did not show the expected loss of improvement after coming off the drug. These are likely to
be subjects who happened by chance to have improved in their MS symptoms around the
time of treatment initiation, but whose improvement did not reverse on drug discontinuation
because it was actually unrelated to drug. Thus, incorporating the follow-up visit as part of
the criterion may help to exclude false positives, if the TW25 speed remains high at follow
up.
         [0084]    As described in Example 5, below, this responder criterion was met by 8.5%,
 35.3%, 36.0%, and 38.6% of the subjects in the placebo, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg b.i.d.
 treatment groups, respectively, showing a highly significant and consistent difference
 between placebo and drug treatment groups.            Given that there was little difference in
 responsiveness between the three doses examined, more detailed analyses were performed
 comparing the pooled Fampridine-SR treated groups against the placebo-treated group. The
 full results of this analysis for study are described in the following sections. These show that
 the responder group so identified experienced a >25% average increase in walking speed over
 the treatment period and that this increase did not diminish across the treatment period. The
 responder group also showed an increase in Subject Global Impression score and an
  improvement in score on the MSWS-12.
          [0085]    Additional features and embodiments of the present invention are illustrated
  by the following non-limiting examples.
                                             EXAMPLE 1
          [0086]    This example illustrates preparation of compositions of the present invention
   and their release of an aminopyridine. Tablets in accordance with the present invention
  having dosages of 5 mg, 7.5 mg and 12.5 mg respectively were manufactured at 5Kg scale.
  Materials were used in the amounts shown in Table 1.
                                                  -27-

    WO 2005/099701                                                                   PCT/US2005/012427
       TABLE       1
                                               % w/w                  % w/w                % w/w
           Milled 4-AP (#50 mesh)       1.25                          1.875                 3.125
              Methocel K100LV           60                     60                   60
                 Avicel PH101                  38.15           37.525               36.275
              Magnesium stearate        0.2                    0.2                  0.2
                  Aerosil 200           0.4                    0.4                  0.4
            Equipment Tablet Press             Horn Noak equipped with 13 x 8mm oval tooling
                                                          pre s speed 42,000 tablets / hr
          Tablet Weight Range (mg)           386 -404               388 -410              388 -406
                                          (96.5-101.0%)          (97.0-102.5%)         (97.0-101.5%)
          Tablet Hardness Range (N)           200-262               179 -  292            150-268
        Tablet Potency - mg/tab. (%LC)          97.1                   99.1                  100.2
           Mean CU (mg/tab.)/%CV           5.0mg / 1.0%           7.4mg / 0.7%          12.4mg / 1.1%
             CU Discrete Samples           5.0mg /1.2%            7.5mg / 1.8%            12.3 /1.1%
                (mg/tab.)/%CV
              Dissolution (%/hr)        Mean         (SD)       Mean        (SD)       Mean         (SD)
                        1                28.9         1.1        29.2        1.8        25.9         1.1
                       2                 42.7         1.8        42.1        1.6        40.2         2.5
                       3                 52.8         1.4        53.0        1.0        49.8         2.1
                       4                 61.4         2.2        61.8        1.5        60.1         2.4
                        6                75.7         3.1        75.2        1.6        74.8         2.7
                       10                95.5         3.3        98.7        1.4        93.2         0.9
        [0087]     Prior to blending, 4-AP was milled through #50 mesh screen using a
Fitzmill* comminutor. The materials were added into a Gral 25 bowl in the following order:
half Methocel K100LV, Avicel PH101, Aerosil 200, milled 4-AP and the remaining
Methocel K100LV. The mix was blended for 15 minutes at 175 rpm, then the magnesium
stearate was added and was further blended for 5 minutes at 100 rpm. Samples were taken
from top and bottom positions for blend potency analysis. Weight and hardness checks were
performed every 15 minutes by the check-master E3049. Discrete tablet samples were taken
during the compression process to evaluate intra batch content uniformity.
                                          EXAMPLE 2
        [0088]     This example illustrates that the pharmacokinetic profile of fampridine in
compositions of the present invention is altered by administration in a sustained release tablet
matrix compared to immediate release and controlled release formulations.
                                                 -28--

     WO 2005/099701                                                     PCT/US2005/012427
        [0089]   There is a delay in absorption manifested by a lower peak concentration,
without any effect on the extent of absorption. When given as a single 12.5 mg dose, the
peak concentration is approximately two-thirds lower as compared to peak values following
administration of the IR formulation; the time to reach peak plasma levels was delayed by
about 2 hours. As with the IR formulation, food delayed the absorption of Fampridine-SR.
The absorption of fampridine was approximately 50% slower following ingestion of a fatty
meal, although due to the flatness of the absorption curve, this may be exaggerated value.
Extent of absorption did not differ, as values for Cmax and AUC were comparable as
summarized in Table 2.
Table 2 Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values (Mean  SD) in Studies Using Fampridine SR,
CR, and IR Formulations: Single Dose Studies in Healthy Adult Male Volunteers
Study Number       Dose (mg)     Fed/Fasted           CMx      tvAx (hours)     AUC (0-oo)
                                                    (ng/mL)                    (ng hr/mL)
     0494006         12.5 SR         Fed           28.7  4.3    5.3  0.8     257.0  62.7
      N=12         (PD12265)        Fasted         25.6  3.8    2.8  1.3     269.9  44.4
                      12.5 IR       Fasted        79.3    16.3   0.9  0.4     294.2  55.6
                   (PD12266)
     1194002         12.5 SR        Fasted         28.5   4.3    2.9  2.4     285.9  37.8
      N= 12        (PD12907)
                     12.5 CR        Fasted         37.7   9.9     3.6  0.9    300.0  53.6
                     (4n806)
                      12.5 IR       Fasted        83.5   23.5    0.79  0.3    274.0  59.2
                     (PS644) I                                               I
                                        EXAMPLE 3
         [0090]  This example details the pharmacokinetic properties of Fampridine-SR in
 tablets of the present invention administered to patients with multiple sclerosis.  Plasma
 samples were analyzed for fampridine using a validated LC/MS/MS assay with a sensitivity
 of 2 ng/mL. Noncompartmental pharmacokinetic parameter values were calculated using
 standard methodology.
                                             -29-

     WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
         [0091]    This was an open-label, multi-center, dose proportionality study of orally
administered fainpridine in patients with multiple sclerosis. Single doses of fampridine were
to be given in escalating doses (5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg) with at least a four-day
interval between administration of each dose of drug.         Safety evaluations were to be
performed during the 24 hour period following administration of fampridine and blood
samples were to be taken at the following times to determine pharmacokinetic parameters:
hour 0 (pre-dose), hours 1-8, and hours 10, 12, 14, 18, and 24.
         [0092]    Twenty-three subjects received all 4 treatments, and one subject received
 only 3 treatments; data from all treatments were analyzed. Dose-dependent parameters (e.g.,
 peak plasma concentration and areas-under-the curve) were normalized to a 10 mg dose for
 among-dose comparisons. Overall observed time of the peak plasma concentration (mean
 and its 95% confidence interval) was 3.75 (3.52, 3.98) h, observed peak plasma fampridine
 concentration (normalized to a 10 mg dose) was 24.12 (23.8, 26.6) ng/ml, area-under-the
 concentration-time curve (normalized to a 10 mg dose) was estimated to be 254 (238, 270)
 ng-h/ml, extrapolated area-under-the-concentration-time curve (normalized to a 10 mg dose)
 was 284 (266, 302) ng-h/ml, terminal rate constant equaled 0.14 (0.13, 0.15) h-, terminal
 half-life was 5.47 (5.05, 5.89) h and clearance divided by bioavailability (CL/F) was equal to
 637 (600, 674) ml/ min.
          [0093]    Dizziness was the most common treatment-related adverse event.        Other
 treatment related adverse events included amblyopia, asthenia, headache, and ataxia. There
 were no clinically significant changes in clinical laboratory values, ECG parameters, vital
  signs, physical examination findings, or neurological examination findings noted over the
  course of this study.
          [0094]    When the plasma concentrations of fampridine were normalized to the 10.0
  mg dose levels, there were no significant differences between any pharmacokinetic parameter
                                                -30-

    WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
(AUC, Cma, t112) in the 5-20 mg dose range. Fampridine was well tolerated at the doses used
in this study. Dose-normalized (to a 10 mg dose) pharmacokinetic parameter values are
summarized in Table3.
Table 3. Dose-Normalized (at 10 mg) Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values (Mean  SEM)
Following Single Oral Administration of Fampridine-SR to Patients with MS.
     Dose         CmAx-norm          tMx           AUC-norm            tv2             Cl/F
     (Mg)           (ng/mL)        (hours)         (ng hr/mL)        (hours)        (mL/min)
       5           26.2  0.6     3.9  0.2        244.2  9.4      5.8  0.5     619.8  36.2
    (n=24)
      10           25.2 0.7       3.9 0.3        252.2 7.8       5.6 0.4      641.4 39.1
    (n=24)
      15           24.6  0.7      3.6  0.3       263.0  7.4      5.5  0.4     632.4  39.0
    (n=24)
      20           24.6 0.8       3.6 0.3        255.6 6.9       5.1 0.3      653.9 37.1
    (n=23)                     II
                                        EXAMPLE 4
         [0095]   This example describes the results of an open-label study to assess the steady
state pharmacokinetics of orally administered fampridine (4-aminopyridine) compositions of
the present invention in subjects with Multiple Sclerosis. This study was an open-label
multiple dose study of Fampridine-SR intended to assess steady state pharmacokinetics in 20
patients with MS who previously completed the study summarized in Table 4. Fampridine
SR (40 mg/day) was administered as two 20 mg doses, given as one morning and one
evening dose for 13 consecutive days, with a single administration of 20 mg on Day 14.
Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were collected on Days 1, 7/8, and 14/15 at the
following intervals: immediately prior to drug administration (baseline), hourly for the first 8
hours, and 10, 12, and 24 hours post-dose. Additional blood samples were collected 14, 18,
and 20 hours post-dose on Day 14, and 30 and 36 hours post-dose on Day 15.
         [0096]   Pharmacokinetic parameter estimates following the first dose in these
patients in this study on Day 1 were comparable to those determined when they participated
in the study summarized in Table 4. No significant difference in Tmax was detected among
                                              -31-

      WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
the four means (Single dose = 3.76 h; Day 1 = 3.78 h; Day 8 = 3.33 h; Day 15 = 3.25 h). Cmax
and Cmax/C, on Days 8 (Cmax = 66.7 ng/ml) and 15 (Cmax = 62.6 ng/ml) were significantly
greater than those of the single dose treatment and of Day 1 (Cmax = 48.6 ng/ml), reflecting
accumulation of the drug with multiple dosing.
         [0097]   There was no significant difference among the four occasions with regard to
either T or C and no difference in Cmax, Cmax/ Cs, CL/F or AUCo, between Days 8 and 15.
Further AUC on Days 8 and 15 did not differ significantly from total AUC with single dose
treatment. Likewise, the estimates of CL/F on Days 8 and 15 and of k and T        1/2 on Day 15
did not differ significantly from those with single dose.
         [0098]   Steady-state was attained by Day 7/8 as evidence by the lack of differences
in Cmax or AUC between Days 7/8 and 14/15; there was no apparent unexpected
 accumulation. Likewise, the estimates of Cl/F on Days 7/8 and 14/15 of and of T1 / 2 on Day
 14/15 did not differ significantly from those given a single dose. On the final day of dosing,
mean Cmax was 62.6 ng/mL, occurring 3.3 hours post-dose. The T1 / 2 was 5.8 hours. These
values are similar to those observed in patients with chronic SCI receiving similar doses of
 this formulation. These results are summarized in Table 4.
 Table 4. Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values (Mean and 95% CI) Following Multiple Oral
 Doses of Fampridine-SR (40 mg/day) to 20 Patients with MS.
                                                     Parameter
       Day            CMx              tWx            AUC (o-12)       tI/2             Cl/F
                    (ng/mL)           (hours)        (ng hr/mL)      (hours)         (L/mmin)
     Day 1             48.6             3.8              NE            NE                NE
                   (42.0, 55.3)      (3.2, 4.3)
    Day 7/8            66.7             3.3              531           NE                700
                   (57.5, 76.0)      (2.8, 3.9)       (452, 610)                     (557, 884)
   Day 14/15           62.6             3.3              499           5.8               703
                   (55.7, 69.4)      (2.6, 3.9)       (446, 552)    (5.0, 6.6)       (621, 786)
          [0099]  Dizziness was the most common treatment-related adverse event.            Other
 treatment-related adverse events that occurred included nausea, ataxia, insomnia, and tremor.
                                                -32-

     WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
There were no clinically significant changes in mean clinical laboratory values, vital signs, or
physical examination findings from baseline to last visit. There were no apparent clinically
significant changes in corrected QT intervals or QRS amplitudes after administration of
fampridine.
         [00100] Fampridine was well tolerated in subjects with multiple sclerosis who
receive twice daily doses (20 mg/dose) of fampridine for two weeks. A significant increase
was observed in Cmax, and Cmax/ C, on Days 8 and 15 relative to those on Day 1 and with
single dose treatment, reflecting accumulation of fampridine with multiple dosing. A lack of
significant differences in Cmax, Cmax/ Cs, CL/F or AUCo, between Days 8 and 15 suggest that
near steady-state is reached by Day 8. There was no evidence of significant changes in
pharmacokinetics during a two-week period of multiple dosing with fampridine.
                                           EXAMPLE 5
          [00101] This example provides an embodiment of a method of treating subjects with
 a sustained release fampridine formulation and a responder analysis of the present invention.
 This was a Phase 2, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, 20-week treatment
 study in 206 subjects diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis.          This study was designed to
 investigate the safety and efficacy of three dose levels of Fampridine-SR, 10 mg b.i.d., 15 mg
 b.i.d., and 20 mg b.i.d. in subjects with clinically definite MS. The primary efficacy endpoint
 was an increase, relative to baseline, in walking speed, on the Timed 25 Foot Walk.
 Secondary efficacy measurements included lower extremity manual muscle testing in four
  groups of lower extremity muscles (hip flexors, knee flexors, knee extensors, and ankle
  dorsiflexors); the 9-Hole Peg Test and Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT 3"); the
  Ashworth score for spasticity; Spasm Frequency/Severity scores; as well as a Clinician's
  (CGI) and Subject's (SGI) Global Impressions, a Subject's Global Impression (SGI), the
                                                 -33-

      WO 2005/099701                                                          PCT/US2005/012427
Multiple Sclerosis Quality of Life Inventory (MSQLI) and the 12-Item MS Walking Scale
(MSWS-12).
         [00102] At the first visit (Visit 0) subjects were to enter into a two-week single-blind
                                                                                                2
placebo run-in period for the purpose of establishing baseline levels of function. At Visit
subjects were to be randomized to one of four treatment groups (Placebo or Fampridine-SR
 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg) and begin two weeks of double-blind dose-escalation in the active
 drug treatment groups (B, C and D). Group A were to receive placebo throughout the study.
 Subjects in the 10 mg (Group B) arm of the study took a dose of 10 mg approximately every
 12 hours during both weeks of the escalation phase. The 15 mg (Group C) and 20 mg (Group
 D) dose subjects took a dose of 10 mg approximately every 12 hours during the first week of
 the escalation phase and titrated up to 15 mg b.i.d. in the second week. Subjects were to be
 instructed to adhere to an "every 12 hour" dosing schedule. Each subject was advised to take
 the medication at approximately the same time each day throughout the study; however,
 different subjects were on differing medication schedules (e.g., 7 AM and 7 PM; or 9 AM
 and 9 PM). After two weeks, the subjects were to return to the clinic at Visit 3 for the start of
 the stable dose treatment period. The first dose of the double-blind treatment phase at the
 final target dose (placebo b.i.d. for the Group A, 10 mg b.i.d. for Group B, 15 mg b.i.d. for
  Group C, and 20 mg b.i.d. for Group D) was taken in the evening following Study Visit 4.
  Subjects were to be assessed five times during the 12-week treatment period. Following the
  12-week treatment phase there was to be a one-week down titration starting at Visit 9.
  During this down-titration period, group B was to remain stable at 10 mg b.i.d. and Group C
  was to be titrated to 10 mg b.i.d., while group D was to have a change in the level of dose
  during the week (15 mg b.i.d. for the first three days and 10 mg b.i.d. for the last four days).
  At the end of the down titration period at Visit 10, subjects were to enter a two-week washout
  period where they did not receive any study medication. The last visit (Visit 11) was to be
                                                 -34-

      WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
scheduled two weeks after the last dosing day (end of the downward titration).            Plasma
samples were collected at each study site visit other than Study Visit 0.
         [00103] The primary measure of efficacy was improvement in average walking
                                                                                             from
speed, relative to the baseline period (placebo run-in), using the Timed 25 Foot Walk
the Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite Score (MSFC). This is a quantitative measure
of lower extremity function. Subjects were instructed to use whatever ambulation aids they
normally use and to walk as quickly as they could from one end to the other end of a clearly
marked 25-foot course. Other efficacy measures included the LEMMT, to estimate muscle
strength bilaterally in four groups of muscles: hip flexors, knee flexors, knee extensors, and
 ankle dorsiflexors. The test was performed at the Screening Visit and at Study Visits 1, 2, 4,
 7, 8, 9 and 11. The strength of each muscle group was rated on the modified BMRC scale: 5
 = Normal muscle strength; 4.5= Voluntary movement against major resistance applied by the
 examiner, but not normal; 4= Voluntary movement against moderate resistance applied by
 the examiner; 3.5= Voluntary movement against mild resistance applied by the examiner; 3=
 Voluntary movement against gravity but not resistance; 2= Voluntary movement present but
 not able to overcome gravity; 1= Visible or palpable contraction of muscle but without limb
 movement; and 0= Absence of any voluntary contraction. Spasticity in each subject was
  assessed using the Ashworth Spasticity Score.          The Ashworth Spasticity Exam was
  performed and recorded at the Screening Visit and at Study Visits 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9 and 11.
          [00104] Protocol Specified Responder Analysis.         To supplement the primary
  analysis, a categorical "responder" analysis was also conducted. Successful response was
  defined for each subject as improvement in walking speed (percent change from baseline) of
  at least 20%. Subjects who dropped out prior to the stable dose period were considered non
  responders. The proportions of protocol specified responders were compared among
  treatment groups using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test, controlling for center.
                                                -35-

     WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
        [00105] Post hoc analysis of this study suggested that a relatively highly selective
criterion for a likely treatment responder would be a subject with a faster walking speed for at
least three visits during the double blind treatment period as compared to the maximum value
among a set of five non-treatment visits (four before treatment and one after discontinuation
of treatment). The four visits before initiation of double-blind treatment provided an initial
baseline against which to measure the consistency of response during the four double-blind
treatment visits. The inclusion of the follow-up visit as an additional component of the
comparison was useful primarily in excluding those subjects who may be false positives, i.e.,
did not show the expected loss of improvement after coming off the drug. Treatment
differences in the proportion of theses post hoc responders were analyzed using the Cochran
Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test, controlling for center.
         [00106] To validate the clinical meaningfulness of the post hoc responder variable,
 (post hoc) responders were compared against the (post hoc) non-responders, on the subjective
 variables: (i) Change from baseline in MSWS-12 over the double-blind; (ii) SGI over the
 double-blind; and (iii) Change from baseline in the CGI over the double-blind; to determine if
 subjects with consistently improved walking speeds during the double-blind could perceive
 improvement relative to those subjects who did not have consistently improved walking
 speeds. For the subjective variables, differences between responder status classification
 (responder or non-responder) were compared using an ANOVA model with effects for
 responder status and center.
         [00107] Results. A total of 206 subjects were randomized into the study: 47 were
 assigned to placebo, 52 to 10 mg bid Fampridine-SR (10 mg bid), 50 to 15 mg bid
 Fampridine-SR (15 mg bid), and 57 to 20 mg bid Fampridine-SR (20 mg bid). The
 disposition of subjects is presented in Table 5 below.
 Table 5 Summary of subject disposition (all randomized population)
                                                -36-

    WO 2005/099701                                                                 PCT/US2005/012427
                                                Treatment Group: N (%)
                                       Placebo  10 mg bid         15mg bid 20 mg bid           Total
 Subjects Randomized                 __47           52                 50        57              206--
 Took at Least One Dose               47 (100%) 52 (100%)        50 (100%) 57 (100%)        206 (100%)
 (Included in Safe..Analysis)                        . ..       .           ..
 ITT Population__                     47_(100%) 51(98.1%)        50 (100%) 57 (100%)        205 (99.5%)
             ._......_ ... . ... ...              -  ..   -...-.......         .   - ---- -    -
 Discontinued Subjects                                                  .  6 (10.5%)
Note: Percentages are based on the number of randomized subjects.
                                                                                                       and
        [00108] All 206 randomized subjects took at least one dose of study medication
were included in the safety population. One subject (subject# 010/07 10 mg bid group) was
excluded from the ITT population (lost to follow-up after 8 days of placebo run-in). A total
of 11 subjects discontinued from the study.
        [00109] The population consisted of 63.6% females and 36.4% males. The majority
of the subjects were Caucasian (92.2%), followed by Black (4.9%), Hispanic (1.5%), those
classified as 'Other' (1.0%), and Asian/Pacific Islander (0.5%). The mean age, weight, and
height of the subjects were 49.8 years (range: 28-69 years), 74.44 kilograms (range: 41.4
 145.5 kilograms), and 168.84 centimeters (range: 137.2-200.7 centimeters), respectively.
Most of the subjects (52.4%) had a diagnosis type of secondary progressive with about equal
amounts of relapsing remitting (22.8%) and primary progressive (24.8%) subjects. The mean
duration of disease was 12.00 years (range: 0.1-37.5 years) while the mean Expanded
Disability Status Scale (EDSS) at screening was 5.77 units (range: 2.5-6.5 units).                      The
 treatment groups were comparable with respect to all baseline demographic and disease
 characteristic variables.
         [00110] Results for the key efficacy variables at baseline for the ITT population are
 further summarized in Table 6 below.
                                                    -37-

     WO 2005/099701                                                                                              PCT/US2005/012427
Table 6 Sunmar of key efficacy variables at baseline (ITT population)
                                                             Treatment Group: Mean (SD)
                                         placebo                10 mg bid              15mg bid              20 mg bid          Treatment.
  Parameter                                  N=47                  N=51                   N=50                 N=57               p-value
  Walking Sp(ed (ft/sec)             1.87 (0.902)              1.94 (0.874)           1.99 (0.877)          2.04 (0.811)           0.752
  LEMMT                              4.05 (0.690)             3.98 (0.661)         ~  4.00 (0.737)          3.98 (0.634)           0.964
                                                                                                                             ....... .
               . .     .. ..
                 ..........            --...
                               . .. -...                       ..   ...    ......-...   .....-..... -.....
  SGI                                4.38(0.795)              4.32 (0.999)*           4.56(1.110)           4.25 (0.969)           0.413
  MSWS-12                           7          (16.566)           31(16.186)         74.60 (17.671)        76.83 (18.124)          0.923
*: One subject did    not    have      a    baseline   value.
        [00111] With respect to the 205 subjects in the ITT population, mean values for
baseline walking speed, LEEMT, SGI, and MSWS-12 were approximately 2 feet per second,
4 units, 4.5 units, and 76 units, respectively. The treatment groups were comparable with
respect to these variables as well as all the other efficacy variables at baseline.
        [00112] Descriptive statistics for the average walking speed (ft/sec) by study day
based on the Timed 25-Foot Walk are presented in Table 7 and Figure 2. The timed 25 foot
walk showed a trend toward increased speed during the stable dose period for all three dose
groups, though the average improvement declined during the treatment period.
 Table 7 Average walking speeds (ft/sec) by study day (observed cases, ITT population)
                                                    Summary Statistics Over Time
                                                                           Study day
       Treatment                             base     titration          1st stbl            2nd stbl        3rd stbl    follow-up
      placebo          Mean                   1.87        1.89             1.90                 1.89           1.89           1.86
                        (SD)               (0.902)      (0.876)          (0.908)              (0.891)         (0.914)    _ (0.933)
                         N#                    47          47               46                   46             45             45
         mg id         Mean                   1.94        2.20             2.09                 2.12           2.00           1.88
                        (SD)                (0.874)     (0.979)          (0.955)              (1.043)         (1.016)      (0.970)
                           N                   51          51               51                   51             50             48
      15mg bid         Mean                   1.99        2.25             2.16                 2.14           2.18           1.83
                        (SD)               (0.877)       (0.995)         (0.986)              (0.957)         (0.932)      (0.952)
                           N                   50          49               49                   48             48             47
      20mg bid         Mean                  2.04         2.26             2.22                 2.19           2.04           1.83
                        (SD)              (0.811)       (0.936)           (0.893)             (0.936)         (0.996)      (0.822)
                           N                   57          55               52                   51             49             55
#: The treatment sample sizes presented in the figure legend represent the number of ITT subjects.
 Sample sizes at individual time points may be smaller than those in the ITT population due to
 dropouts or missed assessments.
         [00113] During double-blind treatment, all the Fampridine-SR groups exhibited mean
 walking speeds between 2.00 and 2.26 feet per second, while the mean value in the placebo
 group was consistently about 1.90 feet per second. It should be noted that, at the third stable
                                                                        -38-

    WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
dose visit, both the 10 mg bid and 20 mg bid group means dropped-off from what would be
expected under the assumption that treatment benefit is consistent over time. This may or
may not have been due to chance; further studies should provide additional evidence for
either case.     After double-blind medication was discontinued, all the treatment groups
converged to approximately the same mean value at follow-up.
         [00114] Results for the primary efficacy variable (percent change in average walking
speed during the 12-week -stable dose period relative to baseline based on the 25-foot walk)
are summarized in Figure 3. The timed 25 foot walk showed a trend toward increased speed
during the stable dose period for all three dose groups, though the average improvement
declined during the treatment period, as shown in Figure 3. The mean percent changes in
average walking speed during the 12-week stable dose period (based on adjusted geometric
mean change of the log-transformed walking speeds) were 2.5%, 5.5%, 8.4%, and 5.8% for
the placebo, 10 mg bid, 15 mg bid, and 20 mg bid groups, respectively. There were no
statistical differences between any Fampridine-SR groups and the placebo group.
         [00115] Results for the protocol specified responder analysis (subjects with average
changes in walking speed during the 12 weeks of stable double-blind treatment of at least
20%) are summarized in Figure 4. The percentages of subjects with average changes in
walking speed during the 12-week stable dose period of at least 20% (pre-defined responders)
were 12.8%, 23.5%, 26.5%, and 16.1% for the placebo, 10 mg bid, 15 mg bid, and 20 mg bid
groups, respectively. There were no statistically significant differences between any of the
Fampridine-SR groups and the placebo group.
         [00116] Descriptive statistics for the average overall Lower Extremity Manual
Muscle Testing (LEMMT) by study day are presented in Table 8 and in Figure 5.
                                              -39-

     WO 2005/099701                                                             PCT/US2005/012427
Table 8. Average overall LEMMT by Study Day
                                    Summary Statistics Ower Time
                                                    Study day
       Treatment             base     titration   1st stbI      2nd stbl    3rd stb1  follow-up
      placebo      Mean      4.05        4.00       4.02          4.03        4.00       4.02
                   (SD)     (0.690)    (0.75)     (0.687)        (0.69)      (0.679)    (0.73)
                    N#         47         46         46            46          45          45
            bid    Mean       3.98       4.08       4.06          4.09        4.07        3.89
                   (SD)     (0.631)    (0.641)     (0.650)       (0.685)     (0.642)    (0.631)
                     N         51         50         51            51          50          49
          1] id    Mean
                   u          4.00       4.16       4.11          4.09        4.17        4.08
                   (__SD)_ (0.737)     (.653)      (065)         (0.659)   _(0.618)_ _(0K.674)
                     N         50         49         49            49          49          46
      numer bid__  Mean       3.98       4.08       4.03          3.98        4.07    _ 3.92
                   (SD)     (0.634)    (0.639)     (0.659)       (0.714)     (0.649)    (0.650)
                     N-        57         54          52           52          48          55
#: The treatment sample sizes presented at individual time points may be smaller than those in the
ITT population due to dropouts or missed assessments.
         [00117] During double-blind treatment, all the Fampridine-SR groups exhibited a
numerical pattern of larger mean LEMMT scores than placebo (except the 20 mg bid group at
the 2 "dstable dose visit). After double-blind medication was discontinued, with the exception
of the 15 mg bid group, all the group means were lower than they were at baseline.
         [00118] Results for the average change in LEMMT during the 12-week stable dose
period relative to baseline are summarized in Figure 6.              The mean changes in overall
LEMMT during the 12-week stable dose period were -0.05 units, 0.10 units, 0.13 units, and
0.05 units for the placebo, 10 mg bid, 15 mg bid, and 20 mg bid groups, respectively.
Improvements in LEMMT were significantly greater in the 10 mg bid and 15 mg bid groups
compared to the placebo group; there was no significant difference between the 20 mg bid
group and the placebo group.
         [00119] No statistically significant differences were detected among treatment group
based on any of the other secondary efficacy variables, as shown in Table 9.
                                                 -40-

    WO 2005/099701                                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
Table 9 Changes in secondary efficacy variables from baseline during the 12-week stable dose period
                                                                    Treatment Group
                                              placebo         10 mg bid        15mg bid         20 mg bid
    Parameter                                  N=47              N=51            N=50              N=57
    Ashworth Score
      N                                          46                51              49                53
      Mean (SD)                           -0.11 (0.377)     -0.04 (0.449)    -0.06 (0.375)     0.02 (0.466)
      p-value(eah dse        . place)                                            0.826
                                                                                   :0.802          0.275
     CGI
      N                                          45                50              49                52
      Mean (SD)                              0.0 (0.66)       -0.2 (0.72)     -0.1 (0.85)        0.0 (0.78)
      p-value (each dose vs place                                0.772           0.997             0.996
     SGI
      N                                          46                50              49                53
      Mean (SD)                             -0.2 (0.96)        0.0 (1.27)     -0.1 (1.11)       -0.1 (0.86)
      _                                                          0.704           0.95_3            0.968
    PASAT
      N                                          46                51              49                53
      Mean (SD)                            2.17 (4.016)      2.13 (3.394)    0.90 (3.274)      0.65 (4.590)
      p-value(eachdsevs placebo                                 >0.999           0.306             0.218
    MSFC
      N                                          46                51              49                52
      Mean (SD)                            0.08 (0.205)      0.10 (0.310)    0.90 (0.224)      0.06 (0.194)
      p-value (each dose vs.-placebo) ----------------           0.977          >0.999             0.9688---
    MSWS-12
      N                                          46                51              49                52
      Mean (SD)                          -3.56 (14.548)    -5.53 (16.154)   -7.32 (16.295)    -5.76 (15.296)
      p-value (each dose vs. placebo)                            0.718           0.445             0.617
Note: The treatment sample sizes presented in the treatment heading represent the number of ITT subjects.
Sample sizes for individual variables may be smaller due to dropouts or missed assessments.
Note: For each variable, the p-values (versus placebo) are Dunnett-adjusted.
         [00120] While pre-planned analyses of the primary efficacy endpoint provided
insufficient evidence of treatment benefits for any of the Fampridine-SR doses, subsequent
analysis revealed the existence of a subset of subjects who responded to the drug with clinical
meaningfulness.         These subjects exhibited walking speeds while on drug that were
consistently better than the fastest walking speeds measured when the subjects were not
taking active drug.
         [00121] The post hoc responder rates based on consistency of improved walking
speeds were significantly higher in all three active dose groups (35, 36 and 39%) compared to
                                                        -41-

     WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
placebo (9%; p<0.00 6 for each dose group, adjusting for multiple comparisons) as shown in
Figure 7.
         [00122] Given that there was little difference in responsiveness between the three
doses examined, more detailed analyses were performed comparing the pooled Fampridine
SR treated groups against the placebo-treated group. Figure 8 summarizes, for the placebo
and the pooled Fampridine-SR group, the percentage of post hoc responders. The number of
subjects who met he post hoc responder criterion in the pooled Fampridine-SR treated group
was 58 (36.7%) compared to 4 (8.5%) in the placebo-treated group, and this difference was
statistically significant (p<0.001).
         [00123] To validate the clinical meaningfulness of the post hoc responder variable,
the 62 responders (58 fampridine and 4 placebo) were compared against the 143 non
responders (100 fampridine and 43 placebo) on the subjective variables to determine if
subjects with consistently improved walking speeds during the double-blind could perceived
benefit relative to those subjects who did not have consistently improved walking speeds.
The results are summarized in Figure 9 and indicate that consistency in walking speed had
clinical meaningfulness for the subjects in this study since the responders had (over the
double-blind period) significantly better changes from baseline in MSWS-12 and
significantly better subjective global scores.      In addition, the responders were rated
marginally better than the non-responders by the clinicians during the double-blind. Thus,
responders experienced clinically meaningful improvements in their MS symptoms, and
treatment with fampridine significantly increased the chances of such a response.
         [00124] To establish baseline comparability among the responder analysis groups,
analyses were performed on the baseline demographic variables, key neurological
characteristics and the relevant efficacy variables at baseline.   In general, the responder
analysis groups were comparable for all demographic and baseline characteristics variables.
                                             -42-

     WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
          [00125] Having demonstrated the clinical meaningfulness of consistently improved
  walking speeds during the double-blind as a criterion for responsiveness, the question of the
 magnitude of benefit becomes of interest.          The fampridine non-responders, although
 providing no relevant efficacy information, do provide safety information regarding those
 individuals who are treated with fampridine but show no apparent clinical benefit. As such,
 responder analyses of these groups were performed.
         [00126] With respect to magnitude of benefit, Figure 10 and Table 12 below
 summarizes the percent changes in walking speed at each double-blind visit by responder
 analysis grouping. The mean improvement for the fainpridine responders during the double
 blind across 14 weeks of treatment ranged from 24.6% to 29.0% compared to 1.7% to 3.7%
 for the placebo group; this was highly significant (p<0.001) at every visit.        Although
 providing no relevant efficacy information, results for the fampridine non-responders are also
illustrated and show that there was, and could be, some worsening in walking speeds after 12
weeks when a non-responder is treated with fampridine. The improvement was stable ( 3%)
across 14 weeks of treatment, and was associated with improvement in two global measures
(Subject Global Impression and Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale-12).         The four placebo
responders showed a 19% improvement in walking speed but there were too few subjects in
this group for meaningful statistical comparison.       Response status was not significantly
related to baseline demographics, including type or severity of MS.       Adverse events and
safety measures were consistent with previous experience for this drug.
Table 12. Summary of percent change in Walking Speed at each double-blind visit by
responder analysis grouping.
                                             -43-

     WO 2005/099701                                                                    PCT/US2005/012427
                                          Summary Statistics Over Time
                                                                       Study day
                Treatment                        titration    1st stbl       2nd stbl     3rd stbl
           Placebo                   Mean            1.7         2.6            1.8          3.7
                                     (SEM)         (2.21)      (3.23)         (3.11)       (3.38)
                                       N#            47          46             46           45
           Fampridine                Mean            8.3         3.5           -0.2         -6.5
             Non-responders          (SEM)         (2.05)      (1.90)         (1.76)       (2.49)
                                        N             97         94             93            89
             ampridine               Mean           27.4        24.6           29.0         27.3
             Responders              (SEM)         (2.43)      (2.44)         (4.31)       (3.52)
                                        N             58         58             57            58
           FR vs. Placebo           p-value^       <0.001      <0.001         <0.001       <0.001
           FR vs. FNR               p-value^       <0.001      <0.001         <0.001       <0.001
           FNR vs. PBO              p-value^       0.080        0.884         0.497        0.022
ABBREVIATIONS: FR=Fampridine Responders; FNR=Fampridine Non-responders.
#: The treatment sample sizes presented at individual time points may be smaller than those in the ITT
population due to dropouts or missed assessments.
#: The treatment sample sizes presented in the figure legend represent the number of ITT subjects. Sample
sizes at individual time points may be smaller due to dropouts or missed assessments.
^: P-values from t-tests of the least-squares means using the mean square error via an ANOVA model with
effects for responder analysis grouping and center.
          [00127] Figure 11 and Table 13 summarize the changes in LEMMT at each double
blind visit by responder analysis grouping.                 The mean improvement for the fampridine
responders during the double-blind ranged from 0.09 to 0.18 units compared to -0.04 units at
each visit for the placebo group; this was significant at every visit except the second stable
dose visit (p=0.106).         Although providing no relevant efficacy information, results for the
fampridine non-responders are also illustrated and show that there was, and could be, some
 significant improvement in leg strength when non-responder is treated with fampridine. This
 suggests that although a clinically meaningful response can be linked to about 37% of
 subjects treated with Fampridine-SR, additional subjects may have functional improvements
 on variables other than walking speed.
 Table 13. Summary of percent change in LEMMT at each double-blind visit by
 responder analysis grouping.
                                                         -44-

    WO 2005/099701                                                                 PCT/US2005/012427
                                       Summary Statistics Over Time
                                            I                       Study day
               Treatment                    I titration    1st stbl       2nd stbl   3rd stbl
           Placebo                Mean          -0.04        -0.04          -0.04      -0.04
                                 (SEM)         (0.035)      (0.042)        (0.039)    (0.042)
                                    N#            46          46              46         45
           Fampidne               Mean           0.12         0.10           0.09       0.10
            Non--responders      (SEM)         (0.028)      (0.033)        (0.036)    (0.038)
                                    N             95           94             94         89
           Fampridine             Mean           0.18         0.09           0.09       0.17
            Responders            (SEM)        (0.029)      (0.032)        (0.043)    (0.045)
                                     N            58           58             58         58
           FR vs. Placebo       p-valueA       <0.001        0.023          0.106      0.004
           FR vs. FNR           p-valueA        0.178        0.627          0.739      0.311
           FNR vs. PBO          p-value^       <0.001        0.003          0.038      0.032
ABBREVIATIONS: FR=Fampridine Responders; FNR=Fampridine Non-responders.
#: The treatment sample sizes presented at individual time points may be smaller than those in the
ITT population due to dropouts or missed assessments. Treatment sample sizes presented in the
figure legend represent the number of ITT subjects. Sample sizes at individual time points may be
smaller due to dropouts or missed assessments.
A: P-values from t-tests of the least-squares means using the mean square error via an ANOVA model
with effects for responder analysis grouping and center.
         [00128] Figure 12 and Table 14, below, summarize the changes in Overall Ashworth
Score at each double-blind visit by responder analysis grouping. The mean reduction from
baseline (indicative of improvement) for the fampridine responders during the double-blind
ranged from -0.18 to -0.11 units compared to -0.11 to -0.06 for the placebo group. The
fampridine responders were numerically superior to placebo but there was insufficient
evidence to detect significant differences.            Although appearing to provide little relevant
efficacy information, results for the fampridine non-responders are also illustrated.
                                                      -45-

     WO 2005/099701                                                                 PCT/US2005/012427
Table 14. Summary of change in overall Ashworth score at each double-blind visit by
responder analysis grouping.
          ~_Summary                        Statistics Over Time
                                     _I                        Study day
       Treatment                        titration     1st stbl       2nd stbl   3rd stbl
   Placebo                Mean            -0.06         -0.11          -0.06     -0.13
                          (SEM)          (0.069)       (0.073)        (0.070)   (0.073)
                            N#              46            46             46        45
   Fampridine             Mean            -0.16         -0.08          -0.07      0.00
    Non-responders        (SEM)          (0.044)       (0.053)        (0.054)   (0.056)
                            N               95            94             94        89
   Fampridine             Mean            -0.14         -0.18          -0.11     -0.18
    Responders            (SEM)          (0.058)       (0.066)        (0.060)   (0.055)
                            N               58            58             58        58
   FR vs. Placebo        p-value^         0.343         0.374          0.717     0.680
   FRvs.FNR              p-value^         0.675         0.210          0.911     0.064
   FNR vs. PBO           p-value^         0.151         0.823          0.772     0.189
ABBREVIATIONS: FR=Fampridine Responders; FNR=Fampridine Non-responders.
#: The treatment sample sizes presented at individual time points may be smaller than those in the
ITT population due to dropouts or missed assessments.
A: P-values from t-tests of the least-squares means using the mean square error via an ANOVA model
with effects for responder analysis grouping and center.
         [00129] Adverse events most commonly reported prior to treatment were accidental
injury, reported by 12 (5.8%) subjects, nausea, reported by 9 (4.4%) subjects, and asthenia,
diarrhea, and paresthesia, each reported by 8 (3.9%) subjects.                Six (2.9%) subjects also
reported headache, anxiety, dizziness, diarrhea, and peripheral edema. These adverse events
are indicative of the medical conditions affecting people with MS.
         [00130] Conclusions.        The data does not appear to support either a number of
anecdotal reports or expectations from preclinical pharmacology that doses higher than about
 10 to 15 mg b.i.d., and even about 10 mg b.i.d., should be associated with greater efficacy.
The data presented below in Table 15 support this, based on the new responder analysis
methodology.
                                                      -46-

    WO 2005/099701                                                        PCT/US2005/012427
Table 15. Comparison of 10 mg vs. 15 mg among Responders
                                                             10 mg              15 mg
                                                            (N=51)             (N=50)
Responders N (%)                                           18 (35.3)          18 (36.0)
Average %CFB in Walk Speed: Mean (SD)                  27.6% (18.39)      29.6% (22.43)
%Change in Walk Speed by Visit: minimum - maximum        26% - 32%          27% -31%
Average SGI                                               4.8 (1.09)         4.7 (1.09)
Average Change in MSWS-12 *                             -11.1 (21.9)        -7.8 (19.6)
                                                                           of
* For the average change in the MSWS-12, a negative score is indicative subjective
improvement.
        [00131] A responder analysis based on consistency of improvement provides a
sensitive, meaningful approach to measuring effects on the timed 25 foot walk and may be
used as a primary endpoint for future trials. This data suggest that for responsive subjects
(approximately 37%), treatment with fampridine at doses of 10-20 mg bid produces
substantial and persistent improvement in walking.
        [00132] Efficacy. There are no notable differences between 10 mg bid and 15 mg bid
among subjects who respond to drug. In fact, the largest difference, favors the 10 mg bid
group (see MSWS-12 result).
        [00133] Safety. With respect to safety, there are three considerations: There was an
apparent decline below baseline walking speed at the last visit on drug in the fampridine non
responders in the 10 mg bid and 20 mg bid groups, but not the 15 mg bid group. This may or
may not be significant, but is not clearly dose related. There was an apparent rebound effect,
with walking speed dropping below baseline, among fampridine treated subjects at the two
week follow-up visit; this occurred in the 15 and 20 mg but not the 10 mg bid group. Serious
AE's were more frequent in the 15 mg and 20 mg bid groups 10% and 12% rates vs. 0% rate
in 10 mg bid and 4% in placebo groups. This may or may not be significant, but the risk of
potentially related SAEs, particularly seizures appears to be dose-related from all available
data and based on mechanism of action. Based on this data, it would appear that a 10 mg bid
                                                  -47-

    WO 2005/099701                                                       PCT/US2005/012427
dose is preferred because of its favorable risk to benefit ratio compared with the 15 and 20
mg doses.
       [00134] Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail
with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof, other versions are possible.
Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description
and the preferred versions contain within this specification.
                                              -48-

    WO 2005/099701                                                         PCT/US2005/012427
We claim:
               1. A method of increasing walking speed comprising administering to a
patient with multiple sclerosis an effective amount of a sustained release aminopyridine
composition twice daily, wherein said effective amount is less than about 15 milligrams of
aminopyridine.
               2. The method of claim 1, wherein said effective amount is about 10 to about
15 milligrams of aminopyridine.
               3. The method of claim 1, wherein said effective amount is about 10
milligrams of aminopyridine.
               4. The method of claim 1, wherein said aminopyridine is 4-aminopyridine.
               5. The method of claim 4, wherein said sustained release 4-aminopyridine
composition exhibits a Cmnax:C, ratio from about 1.0 to 3.5.
               6. The method of claim 1, wherein said twice daily administration comprises
about every 12 hours.
               7. A method of improving lower extremity muscle tone comprising
administering to a patient with multiple sclerosis an effective amount of a sustained-release
aminopyridine composition twice daily, wherein said effective amount is less than about 15
milligrams of aminopyridine.
               8. The method of claim 7, wherein said effective amount is about 10 to about
15 milligrams of aminopyridine.
               9. The method of claim 7, wherein said effective amount is about 10
milligrams of aminopyridine.
               10. The method of claim 7, wherein said aminopyridine is 4-aminopyridine.
               11. The method of claim 10, wherein said sustained release 4-aminopyridine
composition exhibits a Cmax:C, ratio from about 1.0 to 3.5.
                                              -49-

     WO 2005/099701                                                           PCT/US2005/012427
                  12. A method of improving lower extremity muscle strength comprising
 administering to a patient with multiple sclerosis an effective amount of a sustained-release
 aminopyridine composition twice daily, wherein said effective amount is less than about 15
 milligrams of aminopyridine.
                 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said effective amount is about 10 to
 about 15 milligrams of aminopyridine.
                 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said effective amount is about 10
 milligrams of aminopyridine.
                 15. The method of claim 12, wherein said aminopyridine is 4-aminopyridine.
                 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said sustained release 4-aminopyridine
composition exhibits a Cma:C, ratio from about 1.0 to 3.5.
                 17. A method of selecting individuals based on responsiveness to a treatment,
the method comprising:
         identifying a plurality of individuals;
         administering a test to each individual prior to a treatment period;
         administering a treatment to one or more of the individuals during the treatment
period;
        administering the test a plurality of times to each individual during the treatment
period; and
        selecting one or more individuals, wherein the selected individuals exhibit an
improved performance during a majority of the tests administered during the treatment period
as compared to the test administered prior to the treatment period.
                 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
        administering the test to each individual after the treatment period, wherein the
selected individuals further exhibit an improved performance during a majority of the tests
                                                 -50-

     WO 2005/099701                                                           PCT/US2005/012427
 administered during the treatment period as compared to the test administered after the
treatment period.
                  19. The method of claim 17, wherein said treatment comprises a therapeutic
agent.
                 20. A method of selecting individuals based on responsiveness to a treatment,
the method comprising:
         identifying a plurality of individuals;
         administering a test to each individual prior to a treatment period;
         administering a treatment to one or more of the individuals during the treatment
period;
         administering the test a plurality of times to each individual during the treatment
period;
         administering the test to each individual after the treatment period; and
         selecting one or more individuals,
         wherein the selected individuals exhibit an improved performance during a majority
of the tests administered during the treatment period as compared to the better performance of
the test administered prior to the treatment period and the test administered after the treatment
period.
                                                 -51-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
