Abstract
       A system and method for applying a construction material is provided. The
method may include mixing blast furnace slag material, geopolymer material, alkali
based powder, and sand at a batching and mixing device to generate a non-Portland
cement-based material. The method may also include transporting the non-Portland
cement-based material from the mixing device, through a conduit to a nozzle and
combining the transported non-Portland cement-based material with liquid at the
nozzle to generate a partially liquefied non-Portland cement-based material.   The
method may further include pneumatically applying the partially liquefied non
Portland cement-based material to a surface.

  System and Method for Making and Applying a Non-Portland
                             Cement-Based Material
Cross-Reference to Related ApplicationParagraph
     [001]  This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 14/705,534,
filed on May 6, 2015 at the United States Patent and Trademark Office.              The
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 Technical Field
     [002]  This disclosure relates to construction materials and, more particularly, to
a method for making and applying construction materials.
Background
     [003]  Existing approaches in the fields of sewer refurbishing and concrete
restoration and construction may involve the application of shotcrete, which may be
pneumatically projected towards the surface in need of repair or construction. This
shotcrete includes materials found in basic concrete, such as, sand, Portland cement,
and liquid. At a particular job site, this shotcrete may take the form of either a dry
mix or a wet-mix application. The phrase "dry-mix" typically involves the pneumatic
transfer of some or all of the materials in a dry state, through a hose, to a nozzle
where an operator may control the application of liquid to the dry-mix at the nozzle
prior to the projection of the substance. In contrast, the phrase "wet-mix" typically
involves the transfer of a previously mixed concrete, including liquid, through a hose
prior to projection.
     [004]  Some companies have attempted to alter the material composition of the
shotcrete in order to obtain certain benefits.     Accordingly, some approaches may
involve the use of geopolymers.        However, these materials are often subject to
corrosion as a result of the organic material inherent in these products. For example,
Milliken@ manufactures various products under their GeoSprayTM and GeoSprayTM
AMS line of products.      The AMS product may be applied as a pre and/or post
                                            1

treatment to the GeoSprayTM product.         GeoSpray is Portland cement-based and
contains only a small portion of a geopolymer. This mixture is not acid stable. AMS
contains organics to combat the effects of acids on Portland cement based concrete
and of microbial induced corrosion that happens with Portland cement based
materials.
Summary of Disclosure
    [005]    In a first implementation, a method for applying a construction material is
provided. The method may include mixing blast furnace slag material, geopolymer
material, alkali-based powder, and sand at a batching and mixing device to generate a
non-Portland cement-based material. The method may also include transporting the
non-Portland cement-based material from the batching and mixing device, through a
conduit to a nozzle and combining the transported non-Portland cement-based
material with liquid at the nozzle to generate a partially liquefied non-Portland
cement-based material. The method may further include pneumatically applying the
partially liquefied non-Portland cement-based material to a surface.
    [006]    One or more of the following features may be included.           In some
embodiments, the geopolymer material is at least one of volcano rock flour or pumice.
The alkali-based powder may include silicate. Mixing may be performed as a dry
mix.    The non-Portland cement-based material may be inorganic.       Mixing may be
performed at a mobile batching and mixing vehicle. The non-Portland cement-based
material may include at least one of clay, gneiss, granite, liparite, andesite, picrite,
potassic feldspar, albite, pumice or zeolite. Mixing may include mixing at a portable
gun, which is configured to receive the non-Portland cement-based material from the
batching and mixing device.        The components of the non-Portland cement-based
material may include a Blaine fineness value of approximately 2500-5000 cm 2/g.
    [007]    In another implementation, a system for applying a construction material is
provided. The system may include a batching and mixing device configured to batch
                                            2

and mix blast furnace slag material, geopolymer material, alkali-based powder, and
sand to generate a non-Portland cement-based material. The system may also include
a conduit configured to transport the non-Portland cement-based material from the
batching and mixing device. The system may further include a nozzle configured to
receive the non-Portland cement-based material and combine the transported non
Portland cement-based material with liquid to generate a partially liquefied non
Portland cement-based material, wherein the nozzle is further configured to
pneumatically apply the partially liquefied non-Portland cement-based material to a
surface.
    [008] One or more of the following features may be included.            In some
embodiments, the geopolymer material may be at least one of volcano rock flour or
pumice. The alkali-based powder may include silicate. Mixing may be performed as
a dry-mix. The non-Portland cement-based material may be inorganic. Mixing may
be performed at a mobile batching and mixing vehicle. The non-Portland cement
based material may include at least one of clay, gneiss, granite, liparite, andesite,
picrite, potassic feldspar, albite, pumice or zeolite. Mixing may include mixing at a
portable gun, which is configured to receive the non-Portland cement-based material
from the batching and mixing device. The components of the non-Portland cement
based material may include a Blaine fineness value of approximately 2500-5000
cm2/g.
    [009] In another implementation, a non-Portland cement-based construction
material is provided.     The non-Portland cement-based construction material blast
furnace slag material, volcano rock flour, alkali-based powder, and sand. In some
embodiments, the alkali-based powder may be silicate.
    [0010] The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the
accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages
will become apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.
                                            3

Brief Description of the Drawings
    [0011] FIG. 1 is a side view of a mobile system configured to batch, mix and
apply a non-cement-based material according to an embodiment of the present
disclosure;
    [0012] FIG. 2 is a side rear view of a mobile system configured to batch, mix and
apply a non-cement-based material according to an embodiment of the present
disclosure; and
    [0013] FIG. 3 is a flowchart depicting operations consistent with a non-cement
based application process according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
    [0014] Like reference symbols in the various drawings may indicate like
elements.
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
    [0015] Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed towards a construction
material having an alkali-activated binder (i.e. non-Portland cement based) and a
system and method for making and applying the same.             Although many of the
examples included herein are discussed in the context of concrete rehabilitation it
should be noted that the construction material described herein may be used in any
suitable application.    Some of these may include, but are not limited to, sewer
rehabilitation projects, any concrete structure undergoing an acid attack, etc.
    [0016] Referring to FIG. 1, there is shown a mobile batching and mixing vehicle
100 having a number of containers, compartments, and devices associated therewith.
In some embodiments, vehicle 100 may include first container 102, which may be
configured to store sand or other materials. Storage unit 104 may be configured to
store water or other liquids. Vehicle 100 may further include a batching and mixing
device 106, which may include a number of components, some of which may include,
but are not limited to, second container 108, adjustable delivery mechanism 110, and
                                             4

portable gun 212. As is shown in FIG. 2, portable gun 212 may be connected to
nozzle 214 via conduit or hose 216.
    [0017] In some embodiments, mobile batching and mixing vehicle 100 may be
configured to batch, mix and apply a non-Portland cement-based construction
material. This material may be batched and mixed at the vehicle (e.g. within batching
and mixing device 106) or prior to being placed within second container 108. This
material may be transported to nozzle 214, where it may be mixed with liquid from
storage unit 104, prior to being applied to the surface in need of construction OR
repair.   The specifics of the non-Portland cement based construction material are
discussed in further detail herein below.
    [0018] In some embodiments, the non-Portland cement based construction
material described herein may have better strength values as compared to existing
materials, a high resistance and no reactivity versus inorganic and organic acids and
additionally high early strength values. The material may include a dry mix of blast
furnace slag material, geopolymer material, alkali-based powder, and sand at a
batching and mixing device to generate the non-Portland cement-based material.
    [0019] In some embodiments, the non-Portland cement based construction
material may include various types of geopolymer material.         Some of these may
include, but are not limited to, pozzolanic material, which may react with strong alkali
and mixing that blend with the sand and/or grit.           In some embodiments, the
pozzolanic material may include active silicates like slag sand or fly ash. Natural
material like volcano rocks or some others may also be used, however, these may be
more desirable if used in smaller portions as very fine powder. The term "fly ash" as
used herein may refer to an unnatural pozzolan.
    [0020] In some embodiments, the non-Portland cement based construction
material may include any number of pozzolanic materials, some of which may
include, but are not limited to finely ground clay, gneiss, granite, liparite, andesite,
picrite, potassic feldspar, albite, pumice, zeolite, etc., as well as mixtures thereof.
                                            5

These materials may be used in a ground form, calcinated and/or noncalcinated.
Additionally and/or alternatively, all raw materials containing sufficient amounts of
reactive (e.g., metastable, vitreous) SiO 2 and A12 0 3 , including, but not limited to,
ashes, pozzolans, slags may also be suitable for embodiments of the present
disclosure.
     [0021] In some embodiments, the non-Portland cement based construction
material may include an alkali-based powder material and/or various mixing liquids.
Some possible mixing liquids may include, but are not limited to, potassium and
sodium water glass, alkali hydroxides, etc.
     [0022] In some embodiments, the reaction between the SiO 2 /Al2 0 3 containing
components and the alkaline mixing liquid may result in alumino-silicates having a
tridimensional structure.    These framework structures allow for the creation of a
construction material requiring no Portland cement in the compound.
     [0023] In operation, the ingredients may be thoroughly batched and mixed (e.g.,
wholly or partially at vehicle 100) and then delivered to portable gun 212. The non
Portland cement based construction material may be carried via compressed air
through the conduit 216 to nozzle 214.       In one particular embodiment, potassium
silicate, solid content 48%, density 1,52 g/cm3, Wt SiO2:K20 1,14, and some liquid
may be added and thoroughly mixed inside nozzle 214 in a short period of time (e.g.,
less than 1 second) before the partially liquefied mixture may be pneumatically
applied to the surface of interest.
     [0024] Embodiments included herein may include a mixture containing some or
all of the following: slag (e.g., unnatural pozzolan, basis), fly ash (e.g., unnatural
pozzolan and optional in the recipe), geopolymer (e.g., natural pozzolan and optional,
ground vulcano material), alkali (e.g., powder or liquid), other liquids, including
water (optional), and sand/grit. Examples of specific mixtures are provided below,
however, it should be noted that the specific mixtures provided herein are included
                                            6

merely by way of example. Numerous additional and alternative embodiments are
also within the scope of the present disclosure.
    [0025] In one particular example, the non-Portland cement based construction
material may be comprised of the following mixture:
            1 part ground granulated blast furnace slag
            0.13 parts volcano rock flour (alternatively fly ash or a mixture)
            0.61 parts potassium silicate, Wt 1,14
            1.35 parts of sand and/or grit
                                           TABLE 1
    [0026] In some embodiments, the components of the mixture may have a Blaine
fineness of approximately 2500-5000 cm2/g.
    [0027] In another example, the non-Portland cement based construction material
may be comprised of the following mixture:
                                                                           Parts
        Blast furnace slag                                               0.5-1
        Fly Ash                                                          0-0.5
        Pozzolanic                                                       0-0.5
        Sand/grit                                                        1-2
        Potassium or sodium silicate liquid or powder (wt 1.0-3.5)       0.2-2
                                        TABLE 2
    [0028] In another example, the non-Portland cement based construction material
may be comprised of the following mixture:
                       Recipe 1                Recipe 2              Recipe 3
                       parts                   parts                 parts
Blast Furnace Slag    I                        1                     1
                                             7

GGBS
Fly ash                 0.2                    0.2                 0.1
Pozzolona               0.2                                        0.3
volcano ash
Pozzolona                                      0.2
Pumice grinded
Dry sodium silicate     0.7
Wt      2.1,   Na20
27,5%
Potassium silicate                             0.6                 0.6
SC 52 %, density
1,65 g/cm3, Wt 1
Sand                    1.35                   1,35                1.35
Water                   0.55
                                         TABLE 3
     [0029] Embodiments of the non-Portland cement based construction material
produced an unanticipated result as the reaction time of the alkaline ingredients with
the rock flour was sufficient to generate a sticky compound. Through numerous tests,
this compound was found to adhere extremely well on a vertical surface, builds a tight
bonding and hardens within 3 days with compressive strength values above 50
N/mm2 (8000 psi).
     [0030] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure.         As used
herein, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms
as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood
that the terms "comprises" and/or "comprising," when used in this specification,
specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or
components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
                                             8

     [0031] The corresponding structures, materials, acts, and equivalents of all means
or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any
structure, material, or act for performing the function in combination with other
claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure
has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to
be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications
and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing
from the scope and spirit of the disclosure.       The embodiment was chosen and
described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical
application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the
disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the
particular use contemplated.
     [0032] Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail
and by reference to embodiments thereof, it will be apparent that modifications and
variations are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in
the appended claims.
     [0033] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not
be taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior
art forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                           9

     What Is Claimed Is:
1.      A system for applying a construction material comprising:
        a batching and mixing device configured to mix blast furnace slag material,
geopolymer material, alkali-based powder, and sand to generate a non-Portland
cement-based material;
        a conduit configured to transport the non-Portland cement-based material from
the batching and mixing device; and
        a nozzle configured to receive the non-Portland cement-based material and
combine the transported non-Portland cement-based material with liquid to generate a
partially liquefied non-Portland cement-based material, wherein the nozzle is further
configured to pneumatically apply the partially liquefied non-Portland cement-based
material to a surface.
2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the geopolymer material includes volcano
rock flour or pumice.
3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the alkali-based powder includes silicate.
4.      The system of claim 1, wherein batching and mixing is performed as at least
one of a dry-mix and a wet-mix.
5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the non-Portland cement-based material is
inorganic.
6.      The system of claim 1, wherein batching and mixing is performed at a mobile
batching and mixing vehicle.
                                            10

7.      The system of claim 1, wherein the non-Portland cement-based material
includes at least one of clay, gneiss, granite, liparite, andesite, picrite, potassic
feldspar, albite, pumice and zeolite.
8.      The system of claim 5, wherein mixing includes mixing at a portable gun,
which is configured to receive the non-Portland cement-based material from the
batching and mixing device.
9.      The system of claim 1, wherein the components of the non-Portland cement
based material have a Blaine fineness value of approximately 2500-5000 cm 2/g.
10.     An inorganic, non-Portland cement-based construction material comprising:
        blast furnace slag material;
        volcano rock flour;
        alkali-based powder; and
        sand.
11.     The non-Portland cement-based construction material of claim 10, wherein the
alkali-based powder is silicate.
                                          11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
