Abstract
There is provided herein an impact attenuation aquatic surfacing comprising at least one top coat
layer atop an impact attenuation layer. The surfacing comprises a load bearing plastic drainage cell
that allows horizontal water flow to away from under the surfacing to eliminate or ameliorate the
hitherto unrecognised degrading effects of water hammer and/or chlorination. The design principle
of the present floorcovering is that whereas water cannot be prevented from entering the impact
attenuation layer, such water is able to seep, drip or flow from the impact attenuation layer into the
drainage cell layer underneath. The drainage cell layer allows for the lateral flow of the water away
from the floorcovering, thereby reducing or negating the degrading effects of water hammer and/or
chlorination.
                                                   12

             3/4
                            200
         106
                                206
o.. ...  ..
      ....           ......
                 .....              2 01
                                 20
           FIG.4

     Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing and methods of installation
                                                 thereof
Field of the Invention
[1]      This invention relates generally to impact attenuation surfacing and, specifically, impact
attenuation surfacing for high water volume aquatic centres such as water theme parks and
playgrounds.
Background of the Invention
[2]      We found that conventional impact attenuating surfacing degrades quite rapidly in aquatic
environments for reasons hitherto unrecognised in the industry. In instances, we observed the
degradation of newly installed impact attenuating surfacing to substandard levels in as little as six
months.
[3]      Such degradation requires the expensive periodic replacement of aquatic floor coverings, the
tolerance of substandard surfacing, or in, extreme cases dangerously uncovered concrete slab
flooring.
[4]      The present invention seeks to provide a way which will overcome or substantially ameliorate
at least some of the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[5]       It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common general knowledge
in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Disclosure
[6]      As is substantially shown in Figure 3, conventional aquatic impact attenuating surfacing 100
comprises a top coat layer 101 atop an impact attenuation layer 102 which covers a concrete slab 104.
A urethane layer 103 may bond the top coat layer 101 to the impact attenuation layer 102. The impact
attenuation layer 102 may be composed of bonded recycled shredded rubber.
[7]      Such surfacing 100 is exposed to high volumes of water 105. Some "dumping bucket"
playgrounds may release about 5000 L of water per minute.
[8]      We discovered that the impact attenuation layer 102 eventually became saturated with water
to such an extent that degradation of the floorcovering 100 was caused by water hammer/internal
pressurisation effect. Specifically, an impact 106 create shockwaves 107 which are transmitted by the
non-compressible water saturated within the cushion 102. We found that these shockwaves burst
apart / unbond the rubber granules of the impact attenuation layer 102 and also the bonding between
                                                      1

layers. As such, the impact attenuation layer 102 becomes particulated and is unable to adequately
support the top coat 101.
[9]      We further recognised that high chlorine levels typical of public aquatic theme parks further
degraded the bonding of the impact attenuation layer 102, especially as the impact attenuation layer
102 remains continuously saturated in such chlorinated water.
[10]     Specifically, the granules of the impact attenuation layer 102 and the top coat 101 are typically
bonded together with urethane and so too may the bonding layer 103 comprise urethane 103.
[11]     Urethane is not especially chlorine resistant and the continuous saturation of the impact
attenuation layer 102 in such chlorinated water further causes weakening of the bonds between the
granules.
[12]     We furthermore realised that it is generally impossible to keep water from saturating the
impact attenuation layer 102.
[13]     Whereas prior art arrangements attempt to use waterproofing layers between the top coat
101 and cushion 102, such waterproofing becomes broken over time (including under the effects of
chlorine degradation) and furthermore is not continuous in places, especially around metallic furniture
posts and the like. As such, over time, and especially in high water volume aquatic theme parks, the
impact attenuation layer 102 eventually become saturated despite the provision of a waterproofing
layer.
[14]     As such, we devised the surfacing 200 as is substantially shown in figure 4. Specifically, the
present surfacing 200 comprises at least one top coat layer 201 similarly atop an impact attenuation
layer 202.
[15]     The present surfacing 200 is characterised in that it comprises a load bearing plastic drainage
cell 203 that allows horizontal water flow. The design principle of the present surfacing 200 is that
whereas water cannot be prevented from entering the impact attenuation layer 202, such water is
able to seep, drip or flow 204 from the impact attenuation layer 202 into the drainage cell layer 203.
Furthermore, the drainage cell layer 203 allows for the rapid lateral flow of the water away from the
surfacing 200 as indicated by the arrows in Figure 2.
[16]     As such, as is shown in Figure 4, when an impact 106 indents the surfacing 200, the adjacent
portion of the impact attenuation layer 202 is able to compress and absorb the impact 106 by virtue
of being unsaturated.
[17]     With reference to prior art arrangements FR 2886654 BI (ELASTISOL) 04 July 2014 [hereinafter
referred to as D1] as is shown in Figure 1 relates to the problem of impact attenuation layers of floor
coverings becoming saturated/clogged with debris thereby negatively affecting compressibility. D1
                                                      2

states that it is not possible to cover the surface of the floorcovering with a waterproof layer as such
would be slippery and result in puddles.
[18]     As such, D1 proposes the solution shown in Figure 1 wherein an intermediate waterproofing
layer 2 is glued between the upper surface layer 3 and the underlying impact attenuation layer 1.
Rubber drainage tubes 4 may vertically bypass the impact attenuation layer 1 so as to prevent its
saturation.
[19]     However, as alluded to above, such waterproofing layers 2 is incapable of preventing water
seepage or flow into the cushion 1, especially around furniture posts and the like.
[20]     It is clear that D1 does not disclose the present feature of the plastic load bearing drainage
cell layer 203 that allows horizontal water flow.
[21]     Furthermore, D1 in fact teaches away from the claimed solution in that, given the supposition
that the waterproofing layer 2 of D1 is able to keep water from the impact attenuation layer 1, the
skilled person would therefore not have tried to implement the presently claimed plastic load bearing
drainage cell layer 202.
[22]     Furthermore, D1 also teaches away from the present solution in that D1 teaches drainage
tubes 4 interfacing the top coat, as opposed to the impact attenuation layer as per the present
invention.
[23]     Yet further, the drainage tubes 4 of D1 do not allow for lateral flow (D1 discloses the vertical
drainage channels for discharging infiltrated water to the ground) as does the present arrangements
and is therefore ill suited for high water volume theme parks.
[24]     D1 is also not directed to problems of preventing degradation/unbonding of surfacing, either
on account of internal pressurisation or chlorination.
[25]     Furthermore, GB 2000726 A (CARL FREUDENBERG) 17 January 1979 [hereinafter referred to
as D2] also relates to the problem of water saturation affecting (non-aquatic) floorcovering
compressibility. As such, D2 proposes a solution comprising an upper layer of water permeable
elastically bonded granules 1 laminated to a lower layer 2 of perforated closed cell resilient foam.
[26]     However, D2 does not disclose the present feature of a plastic load bearing drainage cell layer
203 that allows horizontal water flow. The perforated closed cell resilient foam layer of D2 is not load
bearing and does not allow horizontal water flow.
[27]     Specifically, D2 teaches the forming of the perforations by forming longitudinal range slits in
the foam and then stretching the foam transversely such that the slits open to form vertical
perforations. Furthermore, D1 teaches that the firm must be soft and resilient.
[28]     As such it is clear that the foam layer of D2 is not load bearing.
                                                     3

[29]     Furthermore, D2 cannot allow for the lateral flow of water as does present arrangements in
that not only is the foam layer of D2 compressible which restricts water flow, the open slits go from
top to bottom, not horizontally. Furthermore, it is arguable that the closed cell foam prevents even
lateral seepage of water and it is noted that even lateral seepage of water is insufficient for the
flowrates required for adequate dispersal for aquatic environments.
[30]     Furthermore, the compressibility of the foam layer of D2 and the relatively little thickness
thereof, while potentially being suitable for an outdoor tennis court exposed to periodic rain as
disclosed in D2, the arrangement of D2 is completely unsuitable for high water volume aquatic theme
parks as of the present arrangement.
[31]     The present invention is further characterised in that it addresses the chlorinated water
degradation problems of the prior art.
[32]     Specifically, over and above the plastic load bearing drainage cell layer 203 dispersing
chlorinated water away from the impact attenuation layer 202 such that the impact attenuation layer
202 is not saturated in chlorinated water for long periods of time, the present invention may comprise
a chlorine resistant epoxy waterproofing layer 205 above the impact attenuation layer 202.
[33]     As such, the waterproofing layer 205 does not substantially degrade over time due to
chlorinated water exposure. Furthermore, a chlorine resistant top coat layer 205 may be provided
above the chlorine resistant waterproofing layer 205. The chlorine resistance of the top coat layer 205
further reduces degradation of the wear surface of the surfacing 200.
[34]     In embodiments, a more finely granular corrector course 207 may interface the chlorine
resistant waterproofing layer 205 and the impact attenuation layer 202. The corrector course 207
need not necessarily be chlorine resistant and therefore may be bonded with urethane.
[35]     As such, with the foregoing in mind, in accordance with one aspect, there is provided Impact
attenuation aquatic surfacing comprising: at least one top coat layer; an impact attenuating layer
under the top coat layer; and a load-bearing drainage cell layer under the impact attenuating layer,
the load-bearing drainage cell layer configured to allow horizontal flow of water.
[36]     The drainage cell layer may comprise a structure defining openings through a top surface
thereof through which the water may enter from the impact attenuation layer and horizontal passages
through which the water may flow horizontally substantially unrestricted.
[37]     The load bearing drainage cell layer may be approximately greater than 20 mm thick.
[38]     The load bearing drainage cell layer may be approximately greater than 25 - 30 mm thick.
[39]     The load bearing drainage cell layer may be able to withstand more than 20 pounds per square
inch of pressure.
[40]     The load bearing drainage cell layer may comprise a chlorine resistant plastic.
                                                    4

[41]     The load bearing drainage cell layer may comprise high density polyethylene (HDPE).
[42]     The at least one top coat layer may comprise a waterproofing layer above the impact
attenuation layer.
[43]     The waterproofing layer may be a chlorine resistant.
[44]     The waterproofing layer may comprise two pack epoxy.
[45]     The at least one top coat layer may comprise a corrector course between the impact
attenuation layer and the waterproofing layer.
[46]     The corrector course may comprise granules generally of smaller dimension than that of the
impact attenuation layer.
[47]     The granules of the corrector course may be approximately of 1- 4 mm in diameter.
[48]     The corrector course granules comprise EPDM rubber (ethylene propylene diene monomer
(M-class) rubber).
[49]     The impact attenuation layer may comprise urethane bonding.
[50]     The impact attenuation layer may be approximately 100 mm thick.
[51]     The at least one top coat layer may comprise a wear layer above the waterproofing layer.
[52]     The wear layer may be chlorine resistant.
[53]     The wear layer may comprise Polyolefin Plastomer granule mixed with a two pack aliphatic
urethane binding agent.
[54]     The at least one top coat layer may comprise a finishing layer above the wear layer.
[55]     The finishing layer may be UV stabilised.
[56]     The finishing layer may comprise Xylene reduced two pack aliphatic liquid urethane.
[57]     The impact attenuation aquatic surfacing further comprises a mesh screen between the
drainage cell layer and the impact attenuation layer.
[58]     There is also provided a method of installation of an aquatic impact attenuation surfacing the
method comprising: installing a load-bearing drainage cell layer; laying screen on the drainage cell
layer; screeding granules and bonding agent over the screen to form an impact attenuation layer; and
applying at least one top coat layer to the impact attenuation layer.
[59]     The at least one top coat layer may comprise a corrector course and wherein the corrector
course may be screeded over the impact attenuation layer.
[60]     The at least one top coat layer may comprise a waterproofing layer and the method comprises
applying the waterproofing layer atop the corrector course.
[61]     The at least one top coat layer may comprise a wear layer and the method may comprise
screeding the wear layer atop the waterproofing layer.
[62]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
                                                    5

Brief Description of the Drawings
[63]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention,
preferred embodiments of the disclosure will now be described, by way of example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[64]     Figures 1 and 2 disclose prior art surfacing arrangements;
[65]     Figure 3 illustrates bond degrading shockwaves transmitted through saturated impact
attenuation layers as is problematic with prior art aquatic surfacing;
[66]     Figure 4 illustrates aquatic surfacing in accordance with present embodiments wherein the
surfacing comprises a load bearing drainage cell layer allowing lateral flow of water away from the
impact attenuation layer, thereby reducing or eliminating bond degrading water hammer and, in
embodiments, chlorine degradation;
[67]     Figure 5 shows impact attenuation aquatic surfacing in accordance with an embodiment.
Description of Embodiments
[68]     Figure 5 shows a cross-sectional view of an impact attenuation aquatic surfacing 300 in
accordance with an embodiment.
[69]     The surfacing 300 may be laid atop a concrete slab 301.
[70]     Installation of the surfacing 300 may comprise the initial installation of the plastic load bearing
drainage cell layer 203 atop the concrete slab 301. Usually, no fixings are required.
[71]     The drainage cell layer 203 comprises a perforated structure providing upper surface
apertures 303 through which water may flow from the impact attenuation layer 202 above.
[72]     Furthermore, the structure may define horizontally passages / openings to allow substantially
unrestricted horizontal water flow across the concrete slab 301. As such, water entering the drainage
cell layer 203 via the upper apertures 303 thereof is able to disperse laterally within the drainage cell
layer 203.
[73]     The drainage cell layer 203 may further allow for slab level hosing for clearing out entrapped
debris thereunder. Furthermore, the drainage cell layer 203 may allow air flow for drying out for
reducing the harbouring of diseases and fungus typical in wet humid environments.
[74]     The drainage cell layer 203 may comprise high density polyethylene (HDPE) which is chlorine
resistant. The HDPE and the construction of the load-bearing drainage cell layer 203 may allow the
load bearing drainage cell layer 203 to withstand approximately 29 pounds per square inch of pressure
so as to, for example, be able to withstand the weight of a motor vehicle.
[75]     In a preferred embodiment, the plastic load bearing drainage cell layer 203 is approximately
25 - 30 mm high. We found that such is generally sufficient for sufficient horizontal water
                                                     6

displacement without reaching saturation in high water volume discharge scenarios, such as the
aforedescribed 5000 L per minute dumping bucket discharge systems.
[76]     In embodiments, a fine mesh screen 302 may be applied to the surface of the load-bearing
drainage cell layer 203.
[77]     The fine mesh screen 302 provides a fine barrier between the impact attenuation layer 202
and the load-bearing drainage cell layer 203. Specifically, the fine mesh screen 302 may prevent or
reduce the flow of fine debris (such as rubber granule) from the layers above into the reticulated water
system.
[78]     Furthermore, the fine mesh screen layer 302 may serve as a preparation surface for the
screeding of the impact attenuation layer 202 during installation which prevents                  rubber
granules/shreds of the impact attenuation layer 202 from falling through the apertures 303 of the
load-bearing drainage cell layer 203.
[79]     In embodiments, the impact attenuation layer 202 may comprise rubber shred or granules
which may be manufactured from recycled tyre rubber. The rubber granules/shreds may be mixed
with a binding liquid urethane which cures and bonds the rubber shred/granules together to form a
continuous layer.
[80]     The impact attenuation layer 202 primarily provides the compliant fall height impact
attenuation properties of the surfacing 300.
[81]     The impact attenuation layer 202 may be installed at various thicknesses according to the
relevant potential fall height exposure risks. In embodiments, the impact attenuation layer 202 may
be about 100 mm thick.
[82]     In embodiments, corrector course 304 may be applied a top the impact attenuation layer 202.
The corrector course 304 may comprise a layer of much finer 1 - 4 mm EPDM rubber (ethylene
propylene diene monomer (M-class) rubber) granules/shreds bonded with urethane bonding agent.
[83]     The corrector course 304 may provide levelling over the much more course and therefore
potentially irregularly surfaced impact attenuation layer 202 beneath.
[84]     The corrector course 304 may further provide a more dense material for the waterproofing
layer 305 above which         reduces gel/sealant     losses therethrough,   thereby maximising the
waterproofing performance of the waterproofing layer 305.
[85]     The waterproofing layer 305 may comprise a gel sealant. The waterproofing layer 305 assists
in keeping the underlying layers as dry as possible which may reduce the amount of water reaching
the impact attenuation layer 202 and, furthermore, the exposure of the impact attenuation layer 202
to chlorine.
                                                    7

[86]     Furthermore, the waterproofing layer 305 may further assist in controlling typical aquatic
hygiene related issues such as the harbouring of diseases like Guardia, E.Coli, Cliptosporidium,
Cholera, Tuberculosis & Hepatitis strains and the like.
[87]     Furthermore, the waterproofing layer 305 may contribute to overall elongation/horizontal
structural integrity of the of the surfacing 300.
[88]     In a preferred embodiment, the waterproofing layer 305 comprises two pack chlorine
resistant epoxy.
[89]     In embodiments, a primer layer 306 may be provided atop the waterproofing layer 305 so as
to enhance the bond between the waterproofing layer 305 and the upper wear layer 206. The primer
layer 306 may comprise a two pack urethane primer.
[90]     The surfacing 300 comprises the topcoat 206 or wear layer. In embodiments, the wear layer
206 comprises chlorine resistant Polyolefin Plastomer granule mixed with a two pack aliphatic
urethane binding agent.
[91]     The wear layer 206 provide slip resistance and an aesthetic wear resistant finish.
[92]     In embodiments, a finishing layer 307 conferring UV stability and fade resistance may be
applied atop the top layer 206.
[93]     The finishing layer 307 may be made from Xylene reduced two pack aliphatic liquid urethane
applied by way of paint brush and/or paint roller.
[94]     The foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, used specific nomenclature to provide
a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that
specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. Thus, the foregoing descriptions of
specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They
are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed; obviously,
many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were
chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical
applications, they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various
embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is
intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.
                                                     8

Claims
1.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing comprising:
         at least one top coat layer;
         an impact attenuating layer under the top coat layer; and
         a load-bearing drainage cell layer under the impact attenuating layer, the load-bearing
drainage cell layer configured to allow horizontal flow of water.
2.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drainage cell layer
comprises a structure defining openings through a top surface thereof through which the water may
enter from the impact attenuation layer and horizontal passages through which the water may flow
horizontally substantially unrestricted.
3.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 2, wherein the load bearing
drainage cell layer is approximately greater than 20 mm thick.
4.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 2, wherein the load bearing
drainage cell layer is approximately greater than 25 - 30 mm thick.
5.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the load bearing
drainage cell layer is able to withstand more than 20 pounds per square inch of pressure.
6.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the load bearing
drainage cell layer comprises a chlorine resistant plastic.
7.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the load bearing
drainage cell layer comprises high density polyethylene (HDPE).
8.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one top coat
layer comprises a waterproofing layer above the impact attenuation layer.
9.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 8, wherein the waterproofing layer
is a chlorine resistant.
10.      Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 9, wherein the waterproofing layer
comprises two pack epoxy.
11.      Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 8, wherein the at least one top coat
layer comprises a corrector course between the impact attenuation layer and the waterproofing
layer.
12.      Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 11, wherein the corrector course
comprises granules generally of smaller dimension than that of the impact attenuation layer.
13.      Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 12, wherein the granules of the
corrector course are approximately of 1 - 4 mm in diameter.
                                                    9

14.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 11, wherein the corrector course
granules comprise EPDM rubber (ethylene propylene diene monomer (M-class) rubber).
15.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the impact attenuation
layer comprises urethane bonding.
16.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the impact attenuation
layer is approximately 100 mm thick.
17.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 11, wherein the at least one top
coat layer comprises a wear layer above the waterproofing layer.
18.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 17, wherein the wear layer is
chlorine resistant.
19.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 18, wherein the wear layer
comprises Polyolefin Plastomer granule mixed with a two pack aliphatic urethane binding agent.
20.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 17, wherein the at least one top
coat layer comprises a finishing layer above the wear layer.
21.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 20, wherein the finishing layer is UV
stabilised.
22.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 21, wherein the finishing layer
comprises Xylene reduced two pack aliphatic liquid urethane.
23.       Impact attenuation aquatic surfacing as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a mesh screen
between the drainage cell layer and the impact attenuation layer.
24.      A method of installation of an aquatic impact attenuation surfacing the method comprising:
          installing a load-bearing drainage cell layer;
          laying screen on the drainage cell layer;
         screeding granules and bonding agent over the screen to form an impact attenuation layer;
and
         applying at least one top coat layer to the impact attenuation layer.
25.      A method as claimed in claim 24, wherein the at least one top coat layer comprises a
corrector course and wherein the corrector course is screeded over the impact attenuation layer.
Wherein the corrector course comprises granules generally of smaller dimension than that of the
impact attenuation layer.
26.      A method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the at least one top coat layer comprises a
waterproofing layer and wherein the method comprises applying the waterproofing layer atop the
corrector course.
                                                     10

27.     A method as claimed in claim 26, wherein the at least one top coat layer comprises a wear
layer and wherein the method comprises screeding the wear layer atop the waterproofing layer.
                                                11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

