                                                 ABSTRACT
          Systems and methods for providing enhanced image quality across a wide and extended
   range of foci encompass vision treatment techniques and ophthalmic lenses such as contact
 5 lenses and intraocular lenses (IOLs). Exemplary IOL optics can include an aspheric refractive
   profile imposed on a first or second lens surface, and a diffractive profile imposed on a first or
   second lens surface. The aspheric refractive profile can focus light toward a far focus. The
   diffractive profile can include a central zone that distributes a first percentage of light toward a
   far focus and a second percentage of light toward an intermediate focus. The diffractive profile
10 can also include a peripheral zone, surrounding the central zone, which distributes a third
   percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth percentage of light toward the intermediate
   focus.

          MULTI-RING LENS, SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR EXTENDED DEPTH OF
                                                    FOCUS
                         CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
     [0001] The present application is a divisional'of parent application 2013308109, the contents of
  5  which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     [0002] Embodiments of the present invention relate to vision treatment techniques and in
    particular, to ophthalmic lenses such as, for example, contact lenses, corneal inlays or onlays, or
     intraocular lenses (IOLs) including, for example, phakic IOLs and piggyback IOLs (i.e. IOLs
 10  implanted in an eye already having an IOL).
     [0003] Presbyopia is a condition that affects the accommodation properties of the eye. As objects
    move closer to a young, properly functioning eye, the effects of ciliary muscle contraction and
    zonular relaxation allow the lens of the eye to change shape, and thus increase its optical power
    and ability to focus at near distances. This accommodation can allow the eye to focus and
 15 refocus between near and far objects.
     [00041 Presbyopia normally develops as a person ages, and is associated with a natural
    progressive loss of accommodation. The presbyopic eye often loses the ability to rapidly and
    easily refocus on objects at varying distances. The effects of presbyopia usually become
    noticeable after the age of 45 years. By the age of 65 years, the crystalline lens has often lost
20  almost all elastic properties and has only limited ability to change shape.
    [00051 Along with reductions in accommodation of the eye, age may also induce clouding of the
    lens due to the formation of a cataract. A cataract may form in the hard central nucleus of the
    lens, in the softer peripheral cortical portion of the lens, or at the back of the lens. Cataracts can
    be treated by the replacement of the cloudy natural lens with an artificial lens. An artificial lens
25  replaces the natural lens in the eye, with the artificial lens often being referred to as an
    intraocular lens or "IOL".
    [0006] Monofocal IOLs are intended to provide vision correction at one distance only, usually
    the far focus. Predicting the most appropriate IOL power for implantation has limited accuracy,
                                                       1

     and an inappropriate IOL power can leave patients with residual refraction following surgery.
     Accordingly, it may be necessary for a patient who has received an IOL implant to also wear
     spectacles to achieve good far vision. At the very least, since a monofocal IOL provides vision
     treatment at only one distance and since the typical correction is for far distance, spectacles are
  5  usually needed for good near vision and sometimes intermediate vision. The term "near vision"
     generally corresponds to vision provided when objects are at a distance from the subject eye of
    between about I to 2 feet are substantially in focus on the retina of the eye. The term "distant
    vision" generally corresponds to vision provided when objects at a distance of at least about 6
     feet or greater are substantially in focus on the retina of the eye. The term "intermediate vision"
 10  corresponds to vision provided when objects at a distance of about 2 feet to about 5 feet from the
     subject eye are substantially in focus on the retina of the eye.
     [0007] There have been various attempts to address limitations associated with monofocal IOLs.
    For example, multifocal IOLs have been proposed that deliver, in principle, two foci, one near
    and one far, optionally with some degree of intermediate focus. Such multifocal or bifocal IOLs
 15 are intended to provide good vision at two distances, and include both refractive and diffractive
    multifocal IOLs. In some instances, a multifocal IOL intended to correct vision at two distances
    may provide a near add power of about 3.0 or 4.0 Diopters.
     [00081 Multifocal IOLs may, for example, rely on a diffractive optical surface to direct portions
    of the light energy toward differing focal distances, thereby allowing the patient to clearly see
 ?0 both near and far objects. Multifocal ophthalmic lenses (including contact lenses or the like)
    have also been proposed for treatment of presbyopia without removal of the natural crystalline
    lens. Diffractive optical surfaces, either monofocal or multifocal, may also be configured to
    provide reduced chromatic aberration.
    [0009] Diffractive monofocal and multifocal lenses can make use of a material having a given
25  refractive index and a surface curvature which provide a refractive power. Diffractive lenses
    have a diffractive profile which confers the lens with a diffractive power that contributes to the
    overall optical power of the lens. The diffractive profile is typically characterized by a number of
    diffractive zones. When used for ophthalmic lenses these zones are typically annular lens zones,
    or echelettes, spaced about the optical axis of the lens. Each echelette may be defined by an
30  optical zone, a transition zone between the optical zone and an optical zone of an adjacent
    echelette, and an echelette geometry. The echelette geometry includes an inner and outer
                                                       2

    diameter and a shape or slope of the optical zone, a height or step height, and a shape of the
    transition zone. The surface area or diameter of the echelettes largely determines the diffractive
    power(s) of the lens and the step height of the transition between echelettes largely determines
    the light distribution between the different add powers. Together, these echelettes form a
  5 diffractive profile.
     [0010] A multifocal diffractive profile of the lens may be used to mitigate presbyopia by
    providing two or more optical powers; for example, one for near vision and one for far vision.
    The lenses may also take the form of an intraocular lens placed within the capsular bag of the
    eye, replacing the original lens, or placed in front of the natural crystalline lens. The lenses may
 10 be in the form of a contact lens, most commonly a bifocal contact lens, or in any other form
    mentioned herein.
     [0011] Although multifocal ophthalmic lenses lead to improved quality of vision for many
    patients, additional improvements would be beneficial. For example, some pseudophakic
    patients experience undesirable visual effects (dysphotopsia), e.g. glare or halos. Halos may arise
 15 when light from the unused focal image creates an out-of-focus image that is superimposed on
    the used focal image. For example, if light from a distant point source is imaged onto the retina
    by the distant focus of a bifocal IOL, the near focus of the IOL will simultaneously superimpose
    a defocused image on top of the image formed by the distant focus. This defocused image may
    manifest itself in the form of a ring of light surrounding the in-focus image, and is referred to as
 ?0 a halo. Another area of improvement revolves around the typical bifocality of multifocal lenses.
    Since multifocal ophthalmic lenses typically provide for near and far vision, intermediate vision
    may be compromised.
    [00121 A lens with an extended depth of focus may provide certain patients the benefits of good
    vision at a range of distances, while having reduced or no dysphotopsia. Various techniques for
25  extending the depth of focus of an IOL have been proposed. For example, some approaches are
    based on a bulls-eye refractive principle, and involve a central zone with a slightly increased
    power. Other techniques include an asphere or include refractive zones with different refractive
    zonal powers.
    [0013] Although certain proposed treatments may provide some benefit to patients in need
30  thereof, still further advances would be desirable. For example, it would be desirable to provide
                                                       3

     improved IOL systems and methods that confer enhanced image quality across a wide and
     extended range of foci without dysphotopsia. Embodiments of the present invention provide
     solutions that address the problems described above, and hence provide answers to at least some
     of these outstanding needs.
  5  [0013A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion
     that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this
     prior art could reasonably be expected to be combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled
     person in the art.
                                 BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 10  [0013B] In a first aspect, the present invention provides an ophthalmic lens, comprising: a first
     surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical axis; an
     aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and      a diffractive profile
     imposed on the first or second surface,     wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light
    toward a far focus, and wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a
 15  first non-zero percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light
    toward an intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone, surrounding the central zone, that
     distributes a third non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero
    percentage of light toward the intermediate focus, wherein the central zone comprises at least
    one echelette having a step height of about 0.006 millimeters, and wherein the peripheral zone
  0 comprises at least one echelette having a step height of about 0.0055 millimeters.
     [0013C} In a second aspect, the present invention provides an ophthalmic lens, comprising:       a
    first surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical axis;
    an aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and a diffractive profile
    imposed on the first or second surface, wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light
25  toward a far focus, and wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a
    first non-zero percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light
    toward an intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone, surrounding the central zone, that
    distributes a third non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero
    percentage of light toward the intermediate focus, wherein the central zone comprises an inner
30  echelette having an outer diameter of 1.6 mm and an outer echelette having an outer diameter of
    2.2 mm, wherein the inner and outer echelettes of the central zone each have a step height, and
                                                     4

     wherein the peripheral zone comprises seven echelettes each having a step height less than the
     step heights of the central zone echelettes.
     [0013D] In a third aspect, the present invention provides an ophthalmic lens, comprising:        a first
     surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical axis; an
 5  aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and         a diffractive profile
    imposed on the first or second surface, wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light toward
    a far focus, and wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a first non
    zero percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light toward an
    intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone, surrounding the central zone, that distributes a third
 >  non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero percentage of light toward
    the intermediate focus, wherein the central zone comprises at least one echelette having an optical
    path difference of 1.5 wavelengths, and wherein the peripheral zone comprises at least one
    echelette having an optical path difference of 1.366 wavelengths.
    [0013E] In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides an ophthalmic lens, comprising: a first
 3  surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical axis;           an
    aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and         a diffractive profile
    imposed on the first or second surface,       wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light
   toward a far focus, and wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a
   first non-zero percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light
   toward an intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone, surrounding the central zone, that distributes
   a third non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero percentage of light
   toward the intermediate focus, wherein the lens provides an MTF at 50 c/mm of 24 at the
   intermediate focus and an MTF at 50 c/mm of 44 at the far focus.
   [0014] Embodiments of the present invention generally provide improved lenses and imaging
5  techniques. Exemplary embodiments provide improved ophthalmic lenses (such as, for example,
   contact lenses, corneal inlays or onlays, or intraocular lenses (IOLs) including, for example,
   phakic IOLs and piggyback IOLs) and associated methods for their design and use.
   [00151 Embodiments of the present invention encompass IOL optics having a circular surface
   structure with one to four echelettes surrounding the surface structure. The profile is designed
0  such that it increases the depth of focus of the pseudophakic eye, where the natural crystalline lens
   of the eye is substituted with a synthetic lens. Such limited ring IOL techniques suppress
                                                     4A

        the distinct bifocality associated with traditional multifocal IOLs which have many diffractive
        rings. Consequently, dysphotopsia (e.g., halo effects) associated with traditional multifocal IOLs
        can be alleviated by lenses according to embodiments of the present invention.
        [0016]    An exemplary limited ring IOL includes an anterior face and a posterior face. A profile
   5   can be imposed on the anterior or posterior surface or face. The profile can have an inner portion
       and an outer portion. The inner portion typically presents a parabolic curved shape. The inner
       portion may also be referred to as a microstructure, or a central or inner echelette. Between the
       inner portion and the outer portion, there may be a transition zone that connects the inner and
       outer portions. The outer portion may be comprised of four or fewer echelettes.
  10   [0017]     In addition to parabolic shapes, the central/ inner echelette can have any of a variety of
       shapes including hyperbolic, spherical, aspheric, and sinusoidal. The transition between the
       inner and outer portions of the central/ inner echelette can be a sharp transition, or it can be a
       smooth transition.
       [00181     The surface of the outer portion at the outside of the microstructure can have any
 15    spherical or aspherical shape and is comprised of a limited number of echelettes, preferably less
      than four. The shape of the outer portion can be optimized for having the desired optical
      performance for a range of pupil sizes. The desired optical performance can be based on
      elements such as the depth of focus, the optical quality in the far focus, and the change in best
      focus (or far focus) position as a function of the pupil size. Optimization rules may be applied as
 20   if the shape were a refractive monofocal IOL, or a refractive IOL having an extended depth of
      focus, or a refractive design that corrects or modifies the ocular spherical aberration. Specific
      designs can be made in which the interplay between the central echelette and the outer zone is
      incorporated in the design or optimization. The techniques described herein are well suited for
     implementation with any of a variety of ophthalmic lenses, including JOLs, corneal inlays or
25   onlays, and/or contact lenses.
      [00191     In one aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic lens
     systems and methods for treating an eye of a patient. An exemplary lens may include an anterior
     face with an anterior refractive profile and a posterior face with a posterior refractive profile.
     The faces may be disposed about an optical axis. The lens may also include a diffractive profile
30   imposed on the anterior refractive profile or the posterior refractive profile. In some cases, the
     diffractive profile may include no more than 5 echelettes. Optionally, the central echelette can
                                                          5

          be disposed within a central zone of the lens. Relatedly, the central echelette may be disposed
          within an annular ring surrounding a central refractive zone of the lens. In some cases, the lens
          includes a peripheral zone with a limited number of echelettes that surround the central echelette
         or annular ring. The limited number of echelettes may be characterized by a constant phase shift.
    5     [0020]    According to some embodiments, an ophthalmic lens can include a limited number of
         echelettes that are characterized by parabolic curves. The central echelette can have a diameter
         within a range from about 1 mm to about 4 mm. For example, the central echelette may
                                                                                                       have a
         diameter of about 1.5 mm. In some cases, the central echelette can have a diameter within a
         range from about 1.0 mm to about 5.0 mm. Lens embodiments may include a peripheral
                                                                                                        portion
  10     comprised of a limited number of echelettes and a refractive portion. Central and peripheral
         echelettes can have a surface area that is between 1 and 7 mm2 . For example, the echelettes
                                                                                                           may
         have a surface area that is 2.3 mm2 . In some cases, a lens may include a peripheral portion
         which surrounds the echelettes. A lens may include a peripheral portion having an
                                                                                                outer
         diameter within a range from about 4 mm to about 6 mm. In some cases, the peripheral
                                                                                                      portion
  15    will have an outer diameter within a range of about 1mm to about 7mm. For example,
                                                                                                     a lens
        may include a peripheral portion having an outer diameter of about 5 mm.
        [00211     The echelettes may be characterized by a step height having a value within a range
        from about 0.5 pm and about 4 gm. According to some embodiments, a transition
                                                                                               can be
        characterized by a step height having a value within a range of about 1.5 gm and
                                                                                             2.5 gm.
 20    According to some embodiments, a transition can be characterized by a step height
                                                                                                having a
       value of about 1.7 gim. In other embodiments, the step height may have a value
                                                                                            of about 2.0 gm.
       [00221      Optionally, a diffractive profile can be characterized by a design wavelength, and
                                                                                                         a lens
       can include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase shift between
                                                                                                    about
       0.25 and about 1 times the design wavelength. In some cases, a diffractive profile
                                                                                              can be
25     characterized by a design wavelength, and the lens can include a transition characterized
                                                                                                      by a
      step height producing a phase shift between about 0.15 and about 2 times the
                                                                                         design wavelength.
       [00231     In some aspects, embodiments of the present invention encompass systems and
      methods involving an ophthalmic lens that include an anterior face with an anterior refractive
      profile and a posterior face with a posterior refractive profile, such that the
                                                                                      faces are disposed
30    about an optical axis, and a diffractive profile imposed on the anterior refractive
                                                                                            profile or the
      posterior refractive profile, such that the diffractive profile includes an inner echelette
                                                                                                  and four
                                                           6

        or fewer outer echelettes. According to some embodiments, an inner echelette can be disposed
        within a central zone of the lens. In some cases, an inner echelette can be disposed within an
        annular ring surrounding a central zone of the lens. Optionally, an inner echelette and outer
        echelettes can be characterized by a parabolic curve. In some cases, an inner echelette and outer
   5    echelettes can be characterized by a constant phase shift. According to some embodiments, an
        ophthalmic lens may include an accommodating lens and/or a multifocal lens.
        [0024]    In one aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic lenses, and
        systems and methods for their design and fabrication. Exemplary ophthalmic lenses may include
       a first surface and a second surface, where the first and second surfaces are disposed about an
 10    optical axis, an aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface, and a
       diffractive profile imposed on the first or second surface. The aspheric refractive profile can
       focus or direct light toward a far focus. The diffractive profile may include a central zone that
       distributes a first percentage of light toward a far focus and a second percentage of light toward
       an intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone, surrounding the central zone, that distributes a third
 15    percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth percentage of light toward the intermediate
       focus. In some instances, the intermediate focus corresponds to an intraocular add power within
       a range between I Diopter and 2.5 Diopters. In some instances, the intermediate focus
       corresponds to an add power between 0.75 and 2 Diopters in the spectacle plane. In some
      instances, the intermediate focus corresponds to an intraocular add power of 1.75 Diopters.
20    According to some embodiments, the far focus corresponds to a first diffractive order of the
      diffractive profile. In some cases, the far focus corresponds to a second diffractive order of the
      diffractive profile. In some cases, the far focus corresponds to a third diffractive order of the
      diffractive profile. In some cases, a difference between the intermediate focus and the far field
      focus corresponds to a power value within a range from about 1 Diopter to about 2.5 Diopters.
25    Optionally, a difference between the intermediate focus and the far field focus may correspond to
      a power of about 1.75 Diopters. According to some embodiments, the central zone has an outer
      diameter within a range from about 1 mm to about 3 mm. According to some embodiments, the
      central zone has an outer diameter of about 2.2 mm. In some instances, the percentage of light
     distributed by the central zone toward the far focus is within a range between 41% and 63%, and
30   the percentage of light distributed by the central zone toward the intermediate focus is within a
     range between 21% and 41%. In some instances, the percentage of light distributed by the
     central zone toward the far focus is 41% and the percentage of light distributed by the central
                                                         7

        zone toward the intermediate focus 41%. In some instances, the percentage of light distributed
        by the peripheral zone toward the far focus is within a range between 41% and 100% and the
        percentage of light distributed by the peripheral zone toward the intermediate focus is within a
        range from 0% to 41%. In some instances, the percentage of light distributed by the peripheral
   5    zone toward the far focus is 63% and the percentage of light distributed by the peripheral zone
        toward the intermediate focus is 21%. Optionally, the central zone may include one or more
        echelettes each having a step height, and the peripheral zone may include a plurality of echelettes
        each having a step height that is less than the step height of each central zone echelette. In some
        instances, the central zone includes two or more echelettes. Optionally, the central zone may
  10   include three or more echelettes. In some instances, the central zone may include two, three,
       four echelettes. According to some embodiments, the central zone includes at least one echelette
       having a step height of about 0.006 millimeters, and the peripheral zone includes at least one
       echelette having a step height of about 0.0055 millimeters. In some instances, the central zone
       includes at least one echelette having an optical path difference of 1.5 wavelengths, and the
 15   peripheral zone includes at least one echelette having an optical path difference of 1.366
       wavelengths. In some instances, the central zone includes two echelettes each having a step
      height, and the peripheral zone includes seven echelettes each having a step height less than the
      step heights of the central zone echelettes. In some instances, the central zone includes an inner
      echelette having an outer diameter of 1.6 mm and an outer echelette having an outer diameter of
 20   2.2 mm, where the inner and outer echelettes of the central zone each have a step height, and the
      peripheral zone includes seven echelettes each having a step height less than the step heights of
      the central zone echelettes. For an add power range of 1.0 - 2.5 Diopters, there may be one to
      five echelettes in the central zone and three to twenty four echelettes in the peripheral zone. For
      an add power range of 0.75 - 2.0 Diopters, there may be one to four echelettes in the central zone
25   and three to nineteen echelettes in the peripheral zone. In some instances, the peripheral zone
     may have in the range of five to twelve echelettes. Optionally, the lens may provide an MTF at
     50 c/mm of 24 at the intermediate focus and an MTF at 50 c/mm of 44 at the far focus.
     [0025]      In another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic lenses
     that include means for compensating for ocular spherical aberration, means for compensating for
30   ocular chromatic aberration, and means for providing an extended depth of focus. In some
     instances, the means for providing an extended depth of focus includes a lens surface having a
     diffractive profile. In some instances, the means for providing an extended depth of focus
                                                          8

         includes a lens surface having a refractive profile. In some instances, the means for providing an
         extended depth of focus includes a lens surface having a diffractive and a refractive profile. In
        some instances, the means for providing an extended depth of focus includes a lens surface
        having a profile that is neither diffractive nor refractive.
   5    [00261     In another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic lenses
        that include means for compensating for ocular spherical aberration, and means for
        compensating for ocular chromatic aberration. The means for compensating for ocular
        chromatic aberration and the means for compensating for ocular spherical aberration when
        combined can provide a far focus corresponding to a base power and an intermediate focus
 10     corresponding to an add power, and a difference between the base power and the add power can
        define an extended depth of focus for the lens. In some instances, the base power is within a
       range from 5 to 34 Diopters and the add power is within a range from I to 2.5 Diopters. In some
       instances, the means for compensating for ocular spherical aberration includes a lens surface
       having an aspherical profile. In some instances, the means for compensating for ocular
 15    chromatic aberration includes a lens surface having a diffractive profile. In some instances, the
       means for compensating for ocular chromatic aberration includes a lens
                                                                                   material construction,
       the construction having a first material providing a first optical dispersion and a second material
      providing a second optical dispersion different from the first optical dispersion.
       [00271     In still another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic
20    lenses that include means for compensating for corneal spherical aberration, means for
      compensating for ocular chromatic aberration, and means for providing an extended depth
                                                                                                      of
      focus. In some instances, the means for providing an extended depth of focus includes a lens
      surface having a diffractive profile. In some instances, the means for providing an extended
      depth of focus includes a lens surface having a refractive profile. In some instances, the means
25    for providing an extended depth of focus includes a lens surface having a diffractive and a
     refractive profile. In some instances, the means for providing an extended depth of focus
     includes a lens surface having a profile that is neither diffractive nor refractive.
      [00281     In yet another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic
     lenses that include means for compensating for corneal spherical aberration, and means for
30   compensating for ocular chromatic aberration. The means for compensating for ocular
     chromatic aberration and the means for compensating for ocular spherical aberration when
                                                          9

         combined can provide a modulation transfer function value at 50 cycles per millimeter of at least
         10, for an intermediate focus, at 3 mm and 5 mm pupil diameters. In some cases, the means for
         compensating for corneal spherical aberration includes a lens surface having an aspherical
        profile. In some cases, the means for compensating for ocular chromatic aberration includes a
   5     lens surface having a diffractive profile. In some cases, the diffractive profile includes a central
        zone that distributes a first percentage of light toward a far focus and a second percentage of
        light toward the intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone, surrounding the central zone, that
        distributes a third percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth percentage of light toward
        the intermediate focus. In some cases, the means for compensating for ocular chromatic
  10    aberration includes a lens material construction, the construction having a first material
       providing a first optical dispersion and a second material providing a second optical dispersion
        different from the first optical dispersion.
        [0029]    In yet another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass methods for
       generating an ophthalmic lens prescription for a patient. Exemplary methods may
                                                                                               include
 15    inputting a patient parameter data profile specific for the patient, where the patient
                                                                                                parameter
       data profile includes a patient spherical aberration parameter corresponding to a measured
       spherical aberration of the patient and a patient chromatic aberration parameter corresponding
                                                                                                             to
       a measured chromatic aberration of the patient. Methods may also include generating
                                                                                                   the
       ophthalmic lens prescription for the patient. The ophthalmic lens prescription can
                                                                                               be configured
 20   to compensate for the measured patient spherical aberration and the measured patient
                                                                                                  chromatic
       aberration and to provide a far focus corresponding to a base power and an intermediate
                                                                                                     focus
      corresponding to an add power, where a difference between the base power and
                                                                                            the add power
      defines an extended depth of focus for the ophthalmic lens. In some instances, the
                                                                                               ophthalmic
      lens prescription may include a contact lens prescription, a phakic intraocular lens prescription,
                                                                                                              a
25    pseudophakic intraocular lens prescription, or a corneal inlay prescription. In
                                                                                         some instances,
      the patient spherical aberration parameter includes an ocular spherical aberration parameter.
                                                                                                          In
      some instances, the patient spherical aberration parameter includes a corneal spherical
                                                                                                   aberration
     parameter. In some instances, the patient chromatic aberration parameter includes
                                                                                              an ocular
     chromatic aberration parameter. In some instances, the patient chromatic aberration
                                                                                                 parameter
30   includes a corneal chromatic aberration parameter.
     [0030]      In still yet another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass methods
     for fabricating an ophthalmic lens prescription for a patient. Exemplary methods may
                                                                                                  include
                                                         10

        inputting an ophthalmic lens prescription for a patient, and fabricating the ophthalmic lens based
        on the prescription. In some cases, the ophthalmic lens is configured to compensate for a patient
        spherical aberration and a patient chromatic aberration, and the lens is configured to provide a far
        focus corresponding to a base power and an intermediate focus corresponding to an add
                                                                                                    power,
   5    where a difference between the base power and the add power defines an extended depth of
        focus for the ophthalmic lens. In some cases, the ophthalmic lens is a contact lens, a phakic
        intraocular lens, a pseudophakic intraocular lens, or a corneal inlay.
        [00311    In another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass systems for
       generating an ophthalmic lens prescription for an eye of a patient. Exemplary systems may
  10   include an input that accepts a patient parameter data profile specific for the patient eye, where
       the patient parameter data profile includes a patient spherical aberration parameter corresponding
       to a measured spherical aberration of the patient eye and a patient chromatic aberration
       parameter corresponding to a measured chromatic aberration of the patient eye. Systems may
       also include a module having a tangible medium embodying machine-readable code that
 15   generates the ophthalmic lens prescription for the eye. The ophthalmic lens prescription can be
      configured to compensate for the measured spherical and chromatic aberrations and to provide a
      far focus corresponding to a base power and an intermediate focus corresponding to an add
      power, where a difference between the base power and the add power defines an extended depth
      of focus for the ophthalmic lens.
 20   [00321     In one aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass systems for fabricating
      an ophthalmic lens for an eye of a patient. Exemplary systems may include an input that accepts
      an ophthalmic lens prescription for the patient eye, where the ophthalmic lens prescription is
      configured to compensate for a measured patient spherical aberration and a measured patient
      chromatic aberration of the patient eye, and to provide a far focus corresponding to a base power
25    and an intermediate focus corresponding to an add power. A difference between the base power
      and the add power can define an extended depth of focus for the ophthalmic lens prescription.
     Systems may also include a manufacturing assembly that fabricates the ophthalmic lens based on
     the lens prescription.
     [00331     For further understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention,
30   reference should be made to the ensuing detailed description taken in conjunction with the
     accompanying drawings.
                                                       11

                                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0034]    FIG. 1A is a cross-sectional view of an eye with a multifocal refractive intraocular lens.
         [0035]    FIG. 1B is a cross-sectional view of an eye having an implanted multifocal diffractive
   5     intraocular lens.
         [00361    FIG. 2A is a front view of a diffractive multifocal ophthalmic lens.
         [00371   FIG. 2B is a cross-sectional view of the lens of FIG. 2A.
         [00381   FIGS. 3A-3B are a graphical representations of a portion of the diffractive profile of a
        conventional diffractive multifocal lens.
 10     [0039]    FIG. 4 shows aspects of the central echelette of a lens according to embodiments of the
       present invention.
        [00401    FIG. 4A-4E illustrates aspects of a lens profile according to embodiments of the present
       invention.
       [0041]     FIG.5 shows aspects of calculated defocus curves according to a central echelette
 15    embodiment.
       [0042]     FIG.6 shows aspects of calculated defocus curves according to a embodiments of the
      present invention.
       [0043]    FIGS. 7 and 7-1 depict aspects of ophthalmic lenses according to embodiments of
                                                                                                      the
      present invention.
20    [00441     FIGS. 8, 8-1, and 8A to 8E depict aspects of ophthalmic lenses according to
      embodiments of the present invention.
      [0045]     FIGS. 9A and 9B depict aspects of ophthalmic lenses according to embodiments of the
     present invention.
      [0046]     FIGS. 1OA and 10B depict aspects of ophthalmic lenses according to embodiments of
25   the present invention.
     [0047]      FIGS. 11 A and 11 B depict aspects of ophthalmic lenses according to embodiments of
     the present invention.
                                                         12

         [00481    FIGS. 12A and 12B depict aspects of ophthalmic lenses according to embodiments of
         the present invention.
         [0049]   FIG. 13 depicts aspects of ophthalmic lens prescription generation methods according
         to embodiments of the present invention.
   5     [00501   FIG. 14 depicts aspects of ophthalmic lens fabrication methods according to
        embodiments of the present invention.
         [0051]   FIG. 15 depicts aspects of ophthalmic lens prescription generation systems according to
        embodiments of the present invention.
        [0052]    FIG. 16 depicts aspects of ophthalmic lens fabrication systems according to
  10    embodiments of the present invention.
        [0053]    For illustration purposes, the profile geometries shown in certain aforementioned
       figures were not drawn exactly to scale. The heights of the profiles shown in some of the figures
       are generally on the order of about 0.1 pm to about 8. 0 pm although the heights may vary
       depending on factors such as the amount of correction needed by the patient, the refractive index
 15    of the lens material and surrounding medium, and the desired distribution of light between
       wanted diffraction orders.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
       [0054]    It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have
 20   been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present
      invention, while eliminating, for the purpose of clarity and brevity, many other elements found
                                                                                                         in
      typical ophthalmic lenses, implantable optic apparatuses, systems and methods. Those of
      ordinary skill in the art may thus recognize that other elements and/or steps are desirable and/or
      required in implementing the present invention. However, because such elements and steps are
25   well known in the art, and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present
     invention, a discussion of such elements and steps is not provided herein. The disclosure herein
     is directed to all such variations and modifications to the disclosed elements and methods known
     to those skilled in the art.
     [0055]      Embodiments of the present invention encompass systems and methods that provide
30   improved image quality over an extended range of focal points or foci. Systems and methods
                                                         13

          disclosed herein can encompass various ophthalmic lenses such as, for example,
                                                                                                contact lenses,
          intraocular lenses, spectacle lenses, and corneal inlays or onlays. Exemplary embodiments
          include ophthalmic lenses having an extended depth of focus, as compared to conventional
         monofocal lenses, and reduced dysphtopsia as compared to conventional multifocal ophthalmic
    5     lenses. In some cases, such techniques involve an IOL approach that includes a limited number
          of rings or echelettes, and typically involves an expanded depth of focus. Advantageously, such
          approaches can provide a patient with good distance vision, as well as good vision at
         intermediate and/or near distances without dysphotopsia.
          [0056]    Embodiments of the present invention generally provide improved lenses and imaging
  10     systems and may be incorporated into any system in which a lens with an extended depth of
         focus may be advantageous, such as camera/ video lenses, including those used for surveillance
         or for surgical procedures, as well as for cameras in mobile phones or other related devices.
        Embodiments of the invention may find their most immediate use in the form of improved
        ophthalmic devices, systems, and methods. Exemplary embodiments of the present
                                                                                                   invention
  15    provide improved ophthalmic lenses (including, for example contact lenses, intraocular
                                                                                                       lenses
        (IOLs), corneal implants and the like) and associated methods for their design and use.
        Embodiments of the present invention may be used with monofocal diffractive or refractive
        lenses, bifocal diffractive or refractive lenses, and multifocal diffractive or refractive
                                                                                                    lenses, e.g.
        embodiments of the present invention could be added to the opposite surface of multifocal
                                                                                                          IOLs.
 20    In other words, an extended depth of focus feature may be added to, for example the
                                                                                                    opposite
       surface of a diffractive or refractive multifocal embodiment.
       [0057]       In addition, an extended depth of focus feature may be added to, for example, a toric
       IOL, an IOL that modifies ocular spherical and/or chromatic aberration, and/or
                                                                                             an
       accommodating IOL. In general, an extended depth of focus feature may be added
                                                                                                 to an IOL
25     that modifies ocular aberrations.
       [00581     Reading is often done in bright light conditions in which the pupil is small. In
                                                                                                       contrast,
      night-time driving is done in low light conditions in which the pupil is large. Embodiments
                                                                                                           of
      the present invention encompass lenses that relatively emphasize intermediate
                                                                                           or near vision for
      small pupil sizes, while also relatively emphasizing far vision for large pupil sizes.
                                                                                                 In some such
30    ophthalmic lenses, a greater proportion of light energy may be transmitted to the far
                                                                                                  focus from a
      peripheral portion of the lens to accommodate for low light, far viewing conditions
                                                                                                 such as night
                                                          14

           time driving, with the near or intermediate viewing receiving relatively more light energy
                                                                                                            from a
           central portion of the diffractive profile - for reading or computer work for example
                                                                                                      and/or to
          provide depth of focus and intermediate or near viewing under low light reading conditions
                                                                                                              as in
          for example reading restaurant menus.
    5     [0059]     FIG. IA is a cross-sectional view of an eye E fit with a multifocal IOL 11. As shown,
          multifocal IOL 11 may, for example, comprise a bifocal IOL. Multifocal IOL 11 receives
                                                                                                            light
          from at least a portion of cornea 12 at the front of eye E and is generally centered
                                                                                                  about the
         optical axis of eye E. For ease of reference and clarity, FIGS. 1A and 1B do not
                                                                                                 disclose the
         refractive properties of other parts of the eye, such as the corneal surfaces.
                                                                                           Only the refractive
  10     and/or diffractive properties of the multifocal IOL 11 are illustrated.
         [0060]      Each major face of lens 11, including the anterior (front) surface and posterior
                                                                                                         (back)
         surface, generally has a refractive profile, e.g. biconvex, plano-convex, plano-concave,
                                                                                                        meniscus,
         etc.. The two surfaces together, in relation to the properties of the surrounding
                                                                                               aqueous humor,
        cornea, and other optical components of the overall optical system, define
                                                                                         the effects of the lens
  15     11 on the imaging performance by eye E. Conventional, monofocal IOLs
                                                                                         have a refractive
        power based on the refractive index of the material from which the lens
                                                                                     is made, and also on the
        curvature or shape of the front and rear surfaces or faces of the lens.
        [0061]      In a young, healthy eye contraction and relaxation of ciliary muscles
                                                                                              17 surrounding the
       capsular bag 14 contribute to accommodation of the eye, the process by
                                                                                     which the eye increases
 20    optical power to maintain focus on objects as they move closer. As
                                                                                 a person ages, the degree of
       accommodation decreases and presbyopia, the diminished ability to focus
                                                                                        on near objects, often
       results. A patient may therefore conventionally use corrective
                                                                           optics having two optical powers,
       one for near vision and one for far vision, as provided by multifocal
                                                                                 IOL 11.
       [0062]      Multifocal lenses may optionally also make special use of the refractive
                                                                                                 properties of
25    the lens. Such lenses generally include different powers in different regions
                                                                                           of the lens so as to
      mitigate the effects of presbyopia. For example, as shown in FIG. 1A,
                                                                                    a perimeter region of
      refractive multifocal lens 11 may have a power which is suitable for
                                                                                 viewing at far viewing
      distances. The same refractive multifocal lens 11 may also include an
                                                                                   inner region having a
      higher surface curvature and a generally higher overall power (sometimes
                                                                                       referred to as a
30    positive add power) suitable for viewing at near distances.
                                                            15

          [00631    Rather than relying entirely on the refractive properties of the lens, multifocal
         diffractive IOLs or contact lenses can also have a diffractive power, as illustrated by the IOL 18
         shown in FIG. lB. The diffractive power can, for example, comprise positive or negative add
         power, and that add power may be a significant (or even the primary) contributor to the overall
   5     optical power of the lens. The diffractive power is conferred by a plurality of concentric
         diffractive zones which form a diffractive profile. The diffractive profile may either be imposed
         on the anterior face or posterior face or both.
         [00641     The diffractive profile of a diffractive multifocal lens directs incoming light into a
        number of diffraction orders. As light 13 enters from the front of the eye, the multifocal lens 18
  10    directs light 13 to form a far field focus 15a on retina 16 for viewing distant objects and a near
        field focus 15b for viewing objects close to the eye. Depending on the distance from the source
        of light 13, the focus on retina 16 may be the near field focus 15b instead. Typically, far field
        focus 15a is associated with 0 diffractive order and near field focus 15b is associated with
                                                                                                           the
        I4 diffractive order, although other orders may be used as well.
 15     [0065]      Multifocal ophthalmic lens 18 typically distributes the majority of light energy into the
       two viewing orders, often with the goal of splitting imaging light energy about evenly
       (50%:50%), one viewing order corresponding to far vision and one viewing order corresponding
       to near vision, although typically, some fraction goes to non-viewing orders.
       [00661      In some embodiments, corrective optics may be provided by phakic IOLs, which can be
 20   used to treat patients while leaving the natural lens in place. Phakic IOLs may be angle
      supported, iris supported, or sulcus supported. The phakic IOL can be placed over the natural
      crystalline lens or piggy-backed over another IOL. It is also envisioned that the present
      invention may be applied to inlays, onlays, accommodating IOLs, spectacles, and even laser
      vision correction.
25    [0067]      FIGS. 2A and 2B show aspects of a standard diffractive multifocal lens 20. Multifocal
      lens 20 may have certain optical properties that are generally similar to those of multifocal IOLs
      11, 18 described above. Multifocal lens 20 has an anterior lens face 21 and a posterior lens
                                                                                                         face
     22 disposed about optical axis 24. The faces 21, 22 of lens 20 typically define a clear aperture
     25. As used herein, the term "clear aperture" means the opening of a lens or optic that restricts
30   the extent of a bundle of light rays from a distant source that can be imaged or focused by
                                                                                                       the
                                                           16

           lens or optic. The clear aperture is usually circular and is specified by its diameter, and
                                                                                                           is
          sometimes equal to the full diameter of the optic.
           [00681    When fitted onto the eye of a subject or patient, the optical axis of lens 20 is generally
          aligned with the optical axis of eye E. The curvature of lens 20 gives lens 20 an anterior
    5     refractive profile and a posterior refractive profile. Although a diffractive profile
                                                                                                   may also be
          imposed on either anterior face 21 and posterior face 22 or both, FIG. 2B shows posterior
                                                                                                              face
          22 with a diffractive profile. The diffractive profile is characterized by a plurality
                                                                                                    of annular
          optical zones or echelettes 23 spaced about optical axis 24. While analytical
                                                                                              optics theory
          generally assumes an infinite number of echelettes, a standard multifocal diffractive
                                                                                                      IOL
  10     typically has at least 9 echelettes, and may have over 30 echelettes. For the sake
                                                                                                  of clarity, FIG.
         2B shows only 4 echelettes. Typically, an IOL is biconvex, or possibly plano-convex,
                                                                                                        or
         convex-concave, although an JOL could be plano-plano, or other refractive
                                                                                            surface
         combinations.
         [00691     FIGS. 3A and 3B are graphical representations of a portion of a typical diffractive
  15    profile of a multifocal lens. While the graph shows only 3 full echelettes,
                                                                                         typical diffractive
         lenses extend to at least 9 echelettes to over 32 echelettes. In FIG 3A,
                                                                                     the height of the surface
        relief profile (from a plane perpendicular to the light rays) of each point on
                                                                                           the echelette surface
        is plotted against the square of the radial distance (r2 or p) from the optical
                                                                                          axis of the lens. In
        multifocal lenses, each echelette 23 may have a diameter or distance from
                                                                                        the optical axis which
 20     is often proportional to ln, n being the number of the echelette 23 as counted
                                                                                              from optical axis
       24. Each echelette has a characteristic optical zone 30 and transition zone
                                                                                         31. Optical zone 30
       has a shape or downward slope that may be linear when plotted against
                                                                                     p as shown in FIG. 3A.
       When plotted against radius r, optical zone 30 has a shape or downward
                                                                                      slope that is parabolic as
       shown in FIG. 3B. As for the typical diffractive multifocal lens, as shown
                                                                                          here, all echelettes
25     have the same surface area. The area of echelettes 23 determines the add
                                                                                       power of lens 20, and,
       as area and radii are correlated, the add power is also related to the radii
                                                                                      of the echelettes.
       [0070]      As shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B, transition zone 31 between adjacent echelettes
                                                                                                         is sharp
      and discontinuous. The height of the lens face sharply transitions from sloping
                                                                                               steadily
      downwards to stepping vertically upwards, and the transitions abruptly
                                                                                    back to sloping steadily
30    downwards again. In doing so, echelettes 23 also have a characteristic
                                                                                   step height 32 defined by
      the distance between the lowest point and height point of the echelette.
                                                                                    Hence, the slope (or first
                                                          17

          derivative) and/or the curvature (second derivative) of the diffractive surface are discontinuous
          adjacent the transitions.
          [00711    Structure of Central Echelette
          [0072]    FIG. 4 provides a graphical representation of a cross section of a portion of an
    5     exemplary lens illustrating the central echelette structure. The lens profile 200 has a ring
         diameter of 1.21mm and a step height at 220 of 2.05 pm, corresponding with a phase
                                                                                                     delay of
         0.5 lambda (see table 2). In this example, the ring diameter was reduced from 1.5mm
                                                                                                      (which is
         the inner ring diameter for a 2.0 Diopter conventional IOL diffractive lens) to 1.2
                                                                                                1mm by a
         scaling factor 42, as described in patent US 5,121,980 (Cohen). Only the inner
                                                                                              portion and part
  10     of the outer portion of half of the lens is shown, although since the lens is rotationally
                                                                                                     symmetric,
         the other half is a mirror image.
         [0073]    The adjacent echelette(s) in the outer portion (not shown) are detailed below.
                                                                                                       Profile
         200 includes an inner portion 210 or single ring, a step or transition 220, and
                                                                                           an outer portion
        230. The outer portion 230 extends beyond that disclosed in FIG. 4F to 2.5mm
                                                                                               and may be
  15    comprised of limited additional echelettes. Inner portion 210 extends between
                                                                                             a central location
        210 of profile 200 and transition 220. Outer portion 230 extends between transition
                                                                                                   220 and a
        peripheral location (not shown). In some cases, transition 220 can be disposed
                                                                                             at a distance from
       the optical axis that is within a range from about 0.5 mn to about 2.0 mm,
                                                                                        and peripheral
        location can be disposed at a distance from the optical axis that is within
                                                                                     a range from about 2.0
 20    to about 3.5 mm, or bigger (for example, for contact lenses, the ranges would
                                                                                           be approximately
        15% larger due to the optically more powerful position of contact lens
                                                                                  compared to an IOL;
       those skilled in the art would appropriately scale certain dimensions depending
                                                                                             on the
       application).
       [00741     The inner portion or echelette 210 includes a center 210a and a peripheral
                                                                                                 edge 210b.
25    At center or central section 210a of inner portion 210 where radial distance
                                                                                        is zero, the sag (d) of
      inner portion is between the sag (d) of the diffractive base curve 240 and the sag
                                                                                              (d) of the
      peripheral curve 260 at 1.03 pm from the peripheral curve 260, corresponding
                                                                                            with a phase delay
      of 0.25 lambda (see table 2). At peripheral edge 210b, the sag (d) of inner
                                                                                      portion 210 is
      substantially equivalent to the sag (d) of diffractive base curve 240 at 13.8
                                                                                      pm. The value of sag
30    (d) between radial distance zero and radial distance at the
                                                                     peripheral edge 210b at 0.61 mm,
      gradually and smoothly changes from 1.03 gm (at r=0) to the value of the
                                                                                     base curve 240 (at
                                                          18

        r--0.61 mm) which is 13.8 gim. This change occurs in a parabolic fashion. As shown here, inner
        portion can present a parabolic shape, for example as described in Equation 4a of Cohen,
        Applied Optics, 31:19, pp. 3750-3754 (1992), incorporated herein by reference.
        [0075]    At the peripheral edge 210b where the radial distance (r) is 0.61 mm, the value of sag
   5    (d) steps or changes from the value of diffractive base curve 240 to the value of peripheral curve
        260. Where radial distance (r) corresponds to transition 220, sag (d) of inner portion is
        equivalent to the value of the diffractive base curve 240. Relatedly, the displacement of the
       profile approaches that of the diffractive base curve as the radial distance increases from a value
       of zero to a value of about 0.61 mm. The step height is 2.05 tm resulting in a phase delay of 0.5.
  10    [00761    The outer portion 230 includes an inner or central edge 230a and a peripheral edge (not
       shown). At inner edge 230a, the sag (d) of outer portion is substantially equivalent to the sag
                                                                                                          (d)
       of peripheral curve 260. At peripheral edge, the sag (d) of outer portion remains substantially
       equivalent to the sag (d) of peripheral curve 260. As detailed below, a limited number of
       echelettes may be located between inner edge 230a and peripheral edge.
 15    [0077]     FIG. 4A provides a graphical representation of a portion of a lens diffractive profile
       with a central echelette and one peripheral adjacent echelette according to embodiments
                                                                                                   of the
      present invention. In FIG. 4A, the height of the surface relief profile (from a plane
      perpendicular to the light rays) of each point on the echelettes surface is plotted against the
      distance from the optical axis of the lens. The echelettes can have a characteristic optical
                                                                                                    zone
 20   930 and transition zone 931. Optical zone 930 can have a shape or downward slope that
                                                                                                   may be
      linear when plotted against p as shown in FIG. 4A. When plotted against radius r, optical
                                                                                                     zone
      930 can have a shape or downward slope that is parabolic. Central and peripheral echelettes
                                                                                                        can
      have a surface area that is between 1 and 7 mm2 . For example, the echelettes may have
                                                                                                  a surface
      area that is 2.3 mm . An outer (refractive) zone can follow the base radius with a fixed
                           2
                                                                                                  offset.
25    [0078]     As shown in FIG. 4A, transition zones 931 between the optical zones 930 and the
      adjacent optical zones can be sharp and discontinuous. Similarly, a vertical transition between
      adjacent echelettes and also the peripheral portion or refractive zone can be sharp and
      discontinuous. The height of the lens face sharply transitions from sloping steadily downwards
     (e.g. across optical zones 930) to stepping vertically upwards (e.g. at transition zone 931),
                                                                                                    and
30   the transitions abruptly back to sloping steadily downward or substantially horizontal
                                                                                               at outer
     refractive zone. In doing so, echelette 930 also has a characteristic step height 932 defined
                                                                                                     by
                                                        19

        the distance between the lowest point and highest point of the echelette. Hence, the slope (or
        first derivative) and/or the curvature (second derivative) of the diffractive surface are
       discontinuous adjacent the transition. The first derivative can be indicated by the direction of the
       lines, and the second derivative can be indicated by the curve of the line.
   5   [00791      According to some embodiments, light comes from below, in the direction indicated by
       arrow A, and only hits the echelettes 930 of the profile. According to some embodiments, in
       theoretical terms light does not hit the vertical connection of the optical zones, and hence the
      profile can be said to have no transition zone. According to some embodiments, in practice
      when one attempts to produce such a profile, for instance by lathe cutting, it may be difficult
                                                                                                          to
 10   reproduce the sharp corner (e.g. at where the optical zone connects with the adjacent optical
      zone) and hence the corner may be rounded to some extent due to the finite chisel radius.
                                                                                                       Such
      rounding may have a negligible effect on the optical performance. According to related
      embodiments, transition zone 931, which can be referred to as the transition from the
                                                                                                  echelette to
      the adjacent zone or zones, can be shaped in a specific way, so as to optimize the optical
 15   performance, for example to minimize scatter from a sharp transition.
      [0080]      PROFILE PARAMETERS
      [00811      The profile design can be characterized in terms of a set of parameters. For example,
     the limited echelette profile can be described as having a central echelette with a
                                                                                            diameter and
     surface area, an adjacent echelette(s) with the same surface area, and an associated
                                                                                              step height at
20   each transition resulting in a phase delay. The central echelette may have a diameter
                                                                                                within a
     range from about 1 mm to about 5 mm. For example, the central echelette may
                                                                                           have a diameter
     of about 1.5 mm. Central echelette may have a surface area that is between I and
                                                                                             7 mm2 . For
     example, the central echelette may have a surface area that is 2.3 mm 2. The
                                                                                       peripheral
     echelette(s) may have a surface area equal to the central echelette. In particular, Table
                                                                                                   1
25   discloses the dimensions of the radius and diameter of the central echelette, along
                                                                                             with the
     surface area of the central and peripheral echelettes.
                                                        20

                                        R (mm)      De (mm)      Area (mm2)
                                          1.48          3            6.9
                                          1.05        2.1            3.5
                                          0.86         1.7           2.3
                                          0.74         1.5           1.7
                                          0.66        1.3            1.4
                                          0.61        1.2            1.2
       [0082]    The step height or profile height can determine the phase delay or phase shifting
       profile. A greater step height can correspond to a greater phase shift. According to some
       embodiments, a lens can include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase
   5   shift between about 0.25 and about 1 times the design wavelength. In some cases, a diffractive
       profile can be characterized by a design wavelength, and the lens can include a transition
       characterized by a step height producing a phase shift between about 0.15 and about 2
                                                                                                 times the
       design wavelength. According to some embodiments the lens may include a transition
       characterized by a step height producing a phase shift of about 0.5. In other embodiments,
                                                                                                     the
 10   lens may include a transition characterized by a step height of about 0.4.
      [0083]     Table 2 provides dimensions of various samples disclosing the relationship between
      phase delay (in wavelengths) and step height (in gim), as valid for an example IOL
                                                                                            material.
                                                     Table 2
                                           Phase Delay      Step height
                                           0.896           3.68
                                           0.700           2.87
                                           0.590           2.42
                                           0.509           2.09
                                          0.500            2.05
                                          0.423            1.74
                                          0.366            1.50
                                          0.350            1.44
                                          0.250            1.03
                                          0.150            0.62
15   [0084]     FIG. 4B provides a graphical representation of a portion of a lens diffractive profile
     with a central echelette and two peripheral echelettes according to embodiments of the
                                                                                                present
     invention. The height of the surface relief profile (from a plane perpendicular to the
                                                                                             light rays)
                                                      21

         of each point on the echelettes surface is plotted against the distance from the optical axis of the
         lens. According to some embodiments, a lens with a central and peripheral adjacent echelette, as
         disclosed in FIG. 4A may also be comprised of an additional peripheral echelette with a
         refractive region between the outermost echelette and the interior echelettes.
    5    [00851    FIG. 4C also details a portion of a lens diffractive profile with a central echelette and
         two peripheral echelettes. In this embodiment, however, the refractive zone is immediately
         adjacent to the central echelette and separates the central echelette from three peripheral
                                                                                                         and
         adjacent echelettes.
         [0086]    Although the above preferred embodiments disclose lenses with echelettes that have
  10     equal step heights, preferred embodiments herein also include lenses with echelettes
                                                                                                    with
        varying step heights as detailed in, for example, FIG. 4D. FIG. 4D. discloses a
                                                                                              four echelette
        embodiment wherein a refractive region separates the central and adjacent echelette
                                                                                                   from three
        peripheral adjacent echelettes. As seen in FIG. 4D, the step height (defined by
                                                                                             the distance
        between the lowest point and highest point of the echelette) of the three outer
                                                                                          echelettes is less
  15    than the step height of the inner echelettes. Of course, in addition to covering
                                                                                          embodiments
       where the step height of the outer echelette(s) is less than the inner echelette(s),
                                                                                             the step height of
       the inner echelette(s) may be less than the outer echelette(s). In addition, for embodiments
                                                                                                           with
       multiple central rings, the central rings may have gradually changing step heights.
                                                                                                 It is further
       envisioned that the rings in the periphery may also have gradually changing step
                                                                                              heights. It is
 20    also foreseeable that the step heights may increase, decrease, or alternate.
       [00871     FIG. 4E provides a graphical representation of a portion of a lens diffractive profile
      with a central echelette and a peripheral echelette which is not adjacent to the
                                                                                         central echelette.
      The central echelette may have a shape or downward slope that is parabolic. A
                                                                                            refractive region
      may then separate the central echelette from the peripheral echelette. The peripheral
                                                                                                   echelette
25    may then be characterized by a sharp and discontinuous step height followed by
                                                                                             a downward
      slope. As in the embodiments above, a peripheral refractive region may surround
                                                                                               the outermost
      echelette. Additionally, other exemplary embodiments include non-adjacent
                                                                                        echelette variations
      analogous to FIG. 4A-4D. By way of non-limiting example, two echelettes that
                                                                                             are not
      separated by a refractive region may also be non-adjacent.
30
                                                        22

          [0088]          Pupil Dependence
          [00891     The size of the human pupil varies with illumination. In bright light the pupil
                                                                                                         is small,
          and in dim or low light conditions the pupil is large. In addition, the size of the human pupil
          varies with accommodative effort. Without accommodative effort, the pupil is larger than with
    5     accommodative effort. Hence, for a smaller pupil, it may be desirable to provide a design that
         places a relative emphasis on intermediate or near vision. For a larger pupil, it may be desirable
         to provide a design that places a relative emphasis on far vision.
         [0090]     In typical reading or near vision conditions where the light is bright, the size of the
         pupil is small, e.g. between about 1 mm and 2 mm in diameter, and the eye has a large depth
                                                                                                              of
  10     focus (for example from a pinhole effect), almost irrespective of the optics of the IOL.
                                                                                                        When the
         size of the pupil is large, e.g. larger than about 4-5 mm in diameter, the situation generally
         applies to low light conditions, and is often associated with distance vision for which
                                                                                                      the power
        of the IOL is typically established. Therefore, many patients would benefit most
                                                                                                from an IOL
        that enhances the depth of focus in order to view at intermediate distances. An
                                                                                             IOL having a
  15    central echelette with limited adjacent echelettes may effectively increase the depth
                                                                                                    of focus for
        intermediate pupil sizes, while maintaining the general increased depth of focus
                                                                                              of small pupil
        sizes, and also maintaining an emphasis on far vision for large pupil sizes.
        [0091]     At the same time, since the limited echelettes and the remaining surface area of the
        optic or remaining lens portion ("non-echelette") have unequal surface areas for
                                                                                              almost all pupil
 20     sizes, there is an incomplete split between the foci. The condition of dysphotopsia
                                                                                                  (e.g. halos)
       that is present for multifocal lenses is observed to be dominated by separation
                                                                                           of two foci and
       pupil size effects. Accordingly, pursuant to exemplary embodiments of the present
                                                                                                   invention,
       the lens may include only a limited number of echelettes, so that light separation
                                                                                              between distinct
       foci is not complete, as compared to standard diffractive multifocal IOLs. Since
                                                                                              the split of light
25     is incomplete, the separation of foci is incomplete. The incomplete separation
                                                                                            of foci contributes
      to the extended depth of focus and the attenuation of dysphotopsia (e.g. halos).
       [0092]     In an exemplary embodiment, the limited echelette design has an optical performance
      that depends on the pupil size. For very small pupils, where the pupil is smaller
                                                                                             than the size of
      the central and adjacent echelette(s), the echelette will act as a refractive lens, having
                                                                                                     a very large
30    depth of focus due to the pinhole effect. For medium and higher pupil sizes, where
                                                                                                  the pupil
      covers the central echelette and the adjacent echelette, the lens will act as a diffractive/refractive
                                                          23

          lens, directing the light to several foci. For higher pupil sizes, more light is being directed to
                                                                                                              the
         lower order foci. The size of the central and adjacent echelette(s) influences the pupil
         dependence of the lens. As such, the size of the central and adjacent echelette(s)
                                                                                                 can be chosen,
         depending on the pupil sizes of a specific patient. For example, the pupil sizes of a patient may
    5    be measured in bright light, in dim light, during far vision and during near vision, and
                                                                                                      in the
         different combinations of light level and accommodative effort.
                                                                              These different pupil sizes,
         which may be defined as pupil dynamics, can be used as input parameters for an optimal
                                                                                                          design
         of the limited echelette design.
         [00931 For example, if a patient has a pupil diameter during near vision (e.g. viewing
                                                                                                     target at
  10     close distance, with high accommodative effort) smaller than 2 mm, having this
                                                                                               pupil dimension
        with both bright and dim light, then the size of the central and adjacent echelette(s)
                                                                                                   may be
        selected to be smaller than 2 mm (e.g. outer diameter of the adjacent echelette
                                                                                             of FIG. 4A), as to
        provide adequate near and intermediate vision. Relatedly, if a patient has
                                                                                        a pupil diameter
        during near vision larger than 2 mm, having this pupil dimension
                                                                              with both bright and dim light,
  15    then the size of the central and adjacent echelette(s) may be 2 mm or larger,
                                                                                          as to provide
        adequate near and intermediate vision. In general, the diameter of the central
                                                                                            and adjacent
        echelette(s) can be smaller than the smallest pupil size the patient has
                                                                                   under any condition (e.g.
        bright/dim light; near/far vision). For any type of pupil dynamics, the size,
                                                                                         the profile, and the
       offsets may be chosen to maximize the lens performance for that specific
                                                                                       patient, or group of
 20    patients. Generally, this is a trade off between the different vision circumstances
                                                                                                (combinations
       of light level and accommodative effort) at which the pupil of the
                                                                              patient is measured.
       Accordingly, exemplary embodiments include a method of designing an
                                                                                     ophthalmic lens
       comprised of utilizing pupil size measurements and based on the measurements
                                                                                              determining the
       size of an isolated echelette to impose on the surface of a lens. The pupil
                                                                                      size measurements
25    may be based on a group of patients.
       [0094]     EVALUATION OF VARIATIONS OF A SPECIFIC EXAMPLE
      [0095]      FIGS. 5 and 6 show calculated defocus curves in the ACE eye model of
                                                                                                an
      embodiment with a central ring diameter of 1.48 mm, an echelette surface
                                                                                       area of 1.7 mm 2, and a
      phase delay of 0.4 wavelength. The horizontal axis denotes the defocus
                                                                                    value in the image
30    plane, in millimeters. Negative defocus values represent the myopic eye,
                                                                                      and therefore, simulate
      vision at intermediate and near distances. The vertical axis denotes the
                                                                                  modulus (MTF) at 50
      cycles per millimeter. Data for 5mm pupil diameters is included. FIG.
                                                                                    5 shows the defocus
                                                          24

         curve for an embodiment having only a single central echelette. FIG. 6 shows an exemplary
         embodiment as disclosed in section 4E, having, in addition to the central echelette, a peripheral
         echelette. The peripheral echelette and has a surface area of 3.5 mm2 , and a phase delay of 0.82
         wavelength. The MTF at intermediate vision distances, with defocus values of about -0.2nm to
    5    0.3mm, as shown in FIG. 6 is higher than the MTF at corresponding defocus values in FIG 5.
         As illustrated in the figures, a central plus peripheral echelette increases the depth of focus as
         compared to a central echelette only.
         [00961    Embodiments of the present invention may be combined with a multifocal
                                                                                                    lens design,
         and with that extend the depth of focus of each focus of the multifocal lens. Similarly,
  10    embodiments of the present invention may be combined with an accommodating lens design, by
        which the range of accommodation of the accommodating lens can be extended.
                                                                                                In addition,
        embodiments of the present invention may be combined with lenses correcting ocular
        aberrations, like toric lenses, aspherical lenses, lenses correcting chromatic aberrations, and
                                                                                                             the
        like.
  15    [00971     Embodiments of the present invention may be combined with a lens design correcting
       chromatic aberrations. In one embodiment, the phase delay of the echelettes in the preceding
       examples is increased by a discrete multiple of wavelengths, in order to correct for chromatic
       aberration. For example, if a phase delay of 0.5 was used, corresponding to a step height
                                                                                                         of 2.05
       pm, an alternative embodiment would have a phase delay of 1.5, corresponding to a step
                                                                                                         height
 20    of 6.15 pm. This embodiment directs the first order diffraction to the far focus, and the
                                                                                                       second
       order diffraction establishes the depth of focus at the intermediate and near range.
       [00981     Further Aspects of Multi-Ring Lenses for Extended Depth of Focus
       [0099]     Embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic lenses having an aspheric
       anterior surface and a diffractive posterior surface, which provide extended depth of focus
                                                                                                           and
25    compensate for natural chromatic and spherical aberration produced by the eye. Although
                                                                                                           many
      of the examples provided herein describe a diffractive profile disposed at the posterior of an
      ophthalmic lens, it is understood that a diffractive profile can also be disposed at the
                                                                                                   anterior lens
      surface, or in some cases at both anterior and posterior surfaces, with
                                                                                  similar results. Similarly,
      although many of the examples provided herein describe an aspherical anterior surface,
                                                                                                      it is
30    understood that an aspherical profile can also be disposed at the posterior lens surface, or
                                                                                                        in
                                                          25

           some cases at both anterior and posterior surface, with similar results. Exemplary ophthalmic
           lenses include contact lenses, phakic lenses, pseudophakic lenses, corneal inlays, and the
                                                                                                            like.
           [0100]    FIG. 7 depicts an exemplary ophthalmic lens 700 having an anterior surface 710 and
                                                                                                                  a
          posterior surface 720. Each of the anterior and posterior surfaces are disposed about
                                                                                                       an optical
    5     axis 715. The anterior surface can incorporate an aspheric shape, and the posterior
                                                                                                     surface can
          incorporate a diffractive shape. In some instances, lens 700 may have a bi-convex
                                                                                                    configuration
          (e.g. FIG. 7-1), where each of the anterior and posterior surfaces presents a generally
                                                                                                       convex
          shape or profile. The anterior surface 710 can include an aspheric shape that extends
                                                                                                       across the
          entire front of the lens. Hence, an aspheric anterior surface 710 may include a
                                                                                               full anterior
  10     surface that is refractive. Similarly, the posterior surface 720 can include a diffractive
                                                                                                        profile
         that extends across the entire back of the lens. Hence, the posterior optical
                                                                                          surface 720 may
         include a diffractive profile that extends across the entire posterior surface.
                                                                                           The anterior surface
         710 operates to refractively direct light toward the far field focus 730. In this
                                                                                             way, the far focus
         730 may correspond to a refractive aspect of the lens 700. The posterior
                                                                                       surface operates to
  15     diffractively direct light toward the far field focus 730 and the intermediate
                                                                                          focus 740. In this
        way, each of the far focus 730 and the intermediate focus 740 may correspond
                                                                                              to a diffractive
        aspect of the lens. An aspheric shape can provide a means for fully or at
                                                                                       least partially
        compensating for or treating natural spherical aberration which may be produced
                                                                                                  by the eye (e.g.
        ocular spherical aberration or corneal spherical aberration). The diffractive
                                                                                          profile can provide a
 20     means for fully or at least partially compensating for or treating natural
                                                                                     chromatic aberration
        which may be produced by the eye (e.g. ocular chromatic aberration). In
                                                                                       some instances, the
        means for compensating for ocular chromatic aberration and the means for
                                                                                         compensating for
        ocular spherical aberration, when combined, provide a far focus corresponding
                                                                                              to a base power
       and an intermediate focus corresponding to an add power. The difference
                                                                                        between the base
25     power and the add power can define an extended depth of focus for the
                                                                                    lens.
       [0101]      The far field focus 730 may correspond to a base power of the lens, and
                                                                                                 the
       intermediate focus 740 may correspond to an add power of the lens. In some
                                                                                           cases, the   far focus
       730 corresponds to a first diffractive order of the diffractive profile. Optionally,
                                                                                                the far focus
       730 may correspond to a second diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
                                                                                         Similarly, the far
30    focus may correspond to a third diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
                                                                                        Often, the
      intermediate focus 740 corresponds to a diffractive order (e.g. d)of the diffractive
                                                                          2                        profile that
      is higher than the diffractive order (e.g. 1") corresponding to the far focus 730.
                                                                                             The base power
                                                           26

        value for the lens may vary depending on the type of lens. Similarly, the add power for the lens
        may vary depending on the type of lens. For an intraocular lens, the base power value may be
        within a range between 5 to 34 Diopters, or even wider. For a contact lens, the base power value
        may be within a range between -10 to +5 Diopters or even wider. For an exemplary intraocular
   5    lens, the base power can be 20 Diopters, and the add power can be 1.75 Diopters. It is
       understood that other similar add powers corresponding to the intermediate focus can be used.
        Such an add power is substantially lower than many current multifocal intraocular lenses, which
       often provide an add power in the range from 3.0 to 4.0 Diopters. For an exemplary
                                                                                                contact lens,
       the add power may be about 1.3 Diopters.
 10    [0102]     As shown here, the diffractive profile includes a central diffractive zone 750 and an
       outer or peripheral diffractive zone 760. The central zone 750 encompasses two
                                                                                            inner echelettes,
       or rings, having diameters of 1.6 mm and 2.2 respectively. The central zone 750 operates to
       direct 41% of incident or incoming light to far field focus 730, and 41% of incident or incoming
       light to intermediate focus 740. In this sense, the central zone 750 can be said to provide a light
 15   distribution between far and intermediate of 50:50%. That is, the percentage of light directed to
      each of the far and intermediate focus points is 50% of the sum of the light distributed between
      the far focus and intermediate focus (i.e. 41/(41 + 41)= 50%). It is understood that other
      diffractive profile central zones providing different light distributions may be used.
      [01031      The peripheral zone 760 operates to direct 63% of incident or incoming light to far field
20    focus 730, and 21% of incident or incoming light to intermediate focus 740. In this sense, the
     peripheral zone 760 can be said to provide a light distribution between far and intermediate of
     75:25%. That is, the percentage of light directed to the far focus is 75% of the sum of the light
     distributed to the far focus and intermediate focus (i.e. 63/(63 + 21) = 75%), and the percentage
     of light directed to the intermediate focus is 25% of the sum of the light distributed between the
25   far focus and intermediate focus (i.e. 21/(63 + 21) = 25%). It is understood that other diffractive
     profile peripheral zones providing different light distributions may be used.
     [0104]      In this way, the diffractive optical element includes multiple zones, where each zone
     acts to concentrate or direct incident light in specific directions according to specific diffractive
     orders. In some instances, about 16% to 18 % of the light is lost to spurious diffractive orders.
30   According to some embodiments, the zeroth order is not used for vision treatment purposes.
                                                         27

          [01051    The lens 700 provides an extended depth of focus to an eye of a patient. For example,
         the lens can bring faraway objects and objects at intermediate distances into focus for the patient
         simultaneously. When the lens is administered to the patient, the patient will not perceive two
         distinct focal images (e.g. two images corresponding to far and intermediate
                                                                                          focus, respectively),
    5    but rather will experience a true extended depth of focus, with a constant or gradual decrease in
         visual quality when objects become closer to the eye. FIGS. 12A, 12B, and 13, discussed
         elsewhere herein, demonstrate how exemplary lens designs can improve optical quality across an
         extended depth of focus.
         [01061    By combining an aspheric anterior surface that corrects for spherical aberration, and
  10    posterior diffractive surface that corrects for chromatic aberration, lenses as disclosed herein
        provide excellent contrast properties in addition to an extended depth of focus. For example,
                                                                                                             the
        diffractive surface combined with the aspheric surface can correct or reduce chromatic aberration
        produced by the eye at various foci.
        [0107]     It is understood that in some embodiments, correction or treatment of chromatic
  15    aberration can also be achieved by providing a lens containing a combination of two materials
        having different dispersion characteristics, for example as described by Bradley et
                                                                                                al.
        "Achromatizing the human eye" Optom. Vis. Sci. 68, 608-16 (1991), the content of which
                                                                                                         is
       incorporated herein by reference. For example, lens design can use pairings of materials
                                                                                                       that
       have the same refractive index at some intermediate wavelength, e.g., 588 nm, but different
 20    amounts of chromatic dispersion to create lenses with zero power at 588 nm but with opposite
       power at wavelengths above and below 588 nm. An alternative embodiment of the present
       invention involves the correction of chromatic aberration using two materials having different
       dispersion characteristics, in combination with an aspherical refractive surface and
                                                                                                diffractive
      rings to extend the depth of focus.
25    [0108]      Embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic lenses and lens
      prescriptions, as well as systems and methods for producing such lenses and prescriptions.
      Exemplary lenses include lens surfaces, disposed about an optical axis, which provide
                                                                                                    aspheric
      and diffractive profiles. The aspheric profile can direct light toward a far focus, and the
      diffractive profile includes (i) a central zone that distributes a first percentage of light
                                                                                                   toward a
30    diffractive order at the far focus and a second percentage of light toward another diffractive
                                                                                                          order
      at an intermediate focus disposed anterior to the far focus, and (ii) a peripheral zone, surrounding
                                                         28

         the central zone, that distributes a first percentage of light toward the diffractive order at the far
         focus and a second percentage of light toward the other diffractive order at the intermediate
         focus. In some instances, the aspheric profile is provided by an anterior face of the lens. In
         some cases, the diffractive profile is provided by the posterior face of the lens.
    5    [0109]     As noted elsewhere herein, different diffractive zones can provide different light
         distributions to different focus points (e.g. between far and intermediate). Table 3 provides
                                                                                                               an
         illustrative example.
                                                          Table 3
         Zone                        Far                       Intermediate                Distribution
                                     (It diffractive order)    ( 2 "ddiffractive order)    (Far:Intermediate)
        Central                      41%                       41%                         50:50
        Peripheral                   63%                       21%                         75:25
        [01101      As noted elsewhere herein, the intermediate focus corresponds to the add power.
        Hence, lens designs such as those represented by Table 3 are different than currently
                                                                                                      known lens
 10     designs which the entirety of the lens directs 50% of the light toward the add power.
                                                                                                      Such
        known lens designs may not sufficiently correct or treat chromatic aberration in the far
                                                                                                        focus.
        Further, such known lens designs have an add power that is substantially larger than that
       provided by embodiments of the present invention. In some instances
                                                                                      of the present invention,
       exemplary lens designs include a peripheral zone which directs 25% of the distributed
                                                                                                       light
 15    toward the add power. What is more, because lens designs according to embodiments
                                                                                                       of the
       present invention may provide a diffractive profile across the entire lens or a
                                                                                             substantial portion
       thereof, such lenses are different than currently known lens designs which
                                                                                          do not provide a
       diffractive profile or diffractive effect at large pupil sizes.
       [0111]      FIG. 8 illustrates aspects of a diffractive profile 800 of an ophthalmic lens according
                                                                                                                to
20     embodiments of the present invention. As shown here, a center portion or (first)
                                                                                                 echelette 802 of
      the diffractive profile has a height (hi) relative to a base shape or curvature 804
                                                                                               of the profile. A
      second echelette 810 is disposed peripherally adjacent to the first echelette 802, with
                                                                                                     a first
      transition zone 811 disposed therebetween. The transition zone 811 can be characterized
                                                                                                          by a
      step height (h2). Hence, each echelette can have a characteristic height or step
                                                                                              height, for
25    example as defined by the distance between the inner (or central), highest point
                                                                                               of the echelette
      (e.g. as measured relative to the base shape), and the outer (or peripheral), lowest
                                                                                                 point of the
                                                            29

           echelette (e.g. as measured relative to the base shape). As shown here, the lower point of the
           echelette can correspond to the location of the base shape. In this example, the step height of the
           center or first echelette 802 is (hi), the step height of the second peripheral
                                                                                           echelette 810 is (h 2),
          the step height of the third peripheral echelette 820 is (h3 ), the step height of the fourth peripheral
    5     echelette 830 is (h4), and the step height of the fifth peripheral echelette 840 is (h ). FIG. 8-1
                                                                                                 5
          shows a related diffractive profile embodiment, here depicted relative to a convex posterior base.
          [0112]     In some instances, a diffractive profile includes 9 rings on a 5 mm diameter optic
          surface. The diffractive profile can include two central rings each having a step height that is
          larger than the step heights of the other seven peripheral rings. The diffractive profile can
  10     provide a monofocal diffractive surface that at least partially corrects or compensates for natural
         chromatic aberration produced by the patient's eye. The aspheric anterior surface of the
         ophthalmic lens can operate to correct or treat spherical aberration
                                                                                  of the eye. In some instances,
         lens system and methods embodiments of the present invention may incorporate features
                                                                                                           of
         lenses and treatments disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,830,332, which discusses lenses
                                                                                                       having both
  15     aspheric anterior surfaces and diffractive posterior surfaces. In some cases, lens designs
                                                                                                           may
        also incorporate diffractive surfaces, for example which direct 63% of the total light
                                                                                                     to the far
        focus and 21% to a near or intermediate focus. In some instances, a diffractive surface
                                                                                                         can
        provide an add power of 1.75 D, with a central 2.2 mm diameter zone that directs 41%
                                                                                                        of the
        total light to far focus and 41% to intermediate focus, surrounded by an outer zone
                                                                                                   which directs
 20     63% of the total light to the far focus and 21% to the intermediate focus. Exemplary
                                                                                                      diffractive
        surfaces can be pupil independent, have an add power of 1.75 Diopters, and provide
                                                                                                     a central
       zone light distribution between the far focus and the intermediate focus of 50%:50%
                                                                                                     and a
       peripheral zone light distribution between the far focus and the intermediate focus
                                                                                                  of 75%:25%.
       In optical terms, the diffractive profile provides a plurality of foci.
25     [0113]      In some embodiments, the diffractive profile 800 can be represented as the
       incorporation of two diffractive echelettes 802 and 810 on top of a base ophthalmic
                                                                                                   lens
       configuration. FIG. SA provides a schematic illustration of such a construction.
                                                                                                Here, the upper
      graph 81 Oa corresponds to a first or base diffractive profile having an equal step
                                                                                               height across the
      entire optical surface, and the middle graph 820a corresponds to a second diffractive
                                                                                                    profile
30    having two central echelettes or rings (which may also have equal step heights).
                                                                                                A similar
      second diffractive profile is depicted in FIG. 8B (the base is shown having a convex
                                                                                                    shape, and
      the central echelettes are below the base radius). The lower graph 830a corresponds
                                                                                                    to a third
                                                             30

          diffractive profile based on the combination of the first and second diffractive profiles.
          Relatedly, FIG. 8C provides a schematic illustration of a final diffractive profile that combines
         two diffractive profiles. FIGS. 8D and 8E also show aspects of exemplary diffractive
                                                                                                       profiles,
         according to embodiments of the present invention. In FIG. 8D, the echelettes of the central
    5    zone may extend into or anterior to the convex base. The first (center) echelette and the second
         echelette can both extend similar or equal distances from the posterior base. Or, the first
         echelette can extend posterior to the second echelette. Or, the second echelette can extend
         posterior to the first echelette. As seen in FIG. 8E, the first echelette may extend posterior to the
        posterior base at various distances relative to the second or other peripheral echelettes. It is also
  10     envisioned that some or all of the echelettes will extend into (or anterior to) the convex base.
         [0114]       A base ophthalmic lens configuration may include a diffractive surface profile such as
        that described in U.S. Patent No. 6,830,332, incorporated herein by reference. For example, the
        base lens configuration may include an achromatic design having a profile height that is equal
                                                                                                              to
        one wavelength, as discussed at column 4, lines 42-43 of the '332 patent. Embodiments
                                                                                                        of the
  15    present invention encompass designs that include extended depth of focus (EDOF) step heights
       that are placed on top of such an achromatic design.
        [01151       In some instances, a base ophthalmic lens configuration may incorporate a pupil
       independent diffractive profile over the entire optic. Hence, the lens can continue to provide
       excellent intermediate vision properties as the pupil widens in low light conditions.
                                                                                                  This pupil
 20    independent diffractive profile may have the same ring structure (add power) as the two
       echelettes. As a result, the two echelettes show up as two central echelettes having higher
                                                                                                          profile
       height (step height) on an otherwise constant-height diffractive profile.
       [0116]       In some instances, each echelette or ring has a step height or profile height that is larger
      than one wavelength. For example, a wavelength can be 550 nm, as that described in US
                                                                                                        Patent
25    No. 6,830,332, incorporated herein by reference. Accordingly, the diffractive profile can
                                                                                                        operate
      to distribute incident or incoming light substantially or predominately to the first and second
      diffractive orders, for example to far focus 730 and intermediate focus
                                                                                   740 of FIG. 7,
      respectively.
      [0117]       In some instances, a diffractive profile of an ophthalmic lens produces chromatic
30    aberration in light directed to the first and second diffractive orders that is opposite in
                                                                                                    sign to the
      chromatic aberration produced by the natural eye (e.g. a natural phakic or aphakic eye into
                                                                                                         which
                                                           31

         an intra-ocular lens is eventually placed). Hence, the diffractive profile can operate to at least
         partially correct, offset, or otherwise treat the eye's natural chromatic
                                                                                    aberration. For example,
         optical parts of a patient's aphakic eye 900 may introduce chromatic aberration as depicted
                                                                                                             in
        FIG. 9A by focusing different wavelengths of light (e.g. blue light 902, green light 904, and
                                                                                                               red
    5   light 906) to different focal positions, respectively. Hence, it can be seen that the patient's
                                                                                                            own
        eye can produce chromatic aberration, where the chromatic aberration produced by the eye
        causes different wavelengths of light to have differing focal lengths.
        [01181     As depicted here, FIG. 9A and 9B are schematic drawings, and the focal points or
        regions (e.g. 920a, 920b respectively) are shown at the center of the eye for purposes
                                                                                                     of clarity.
  10    Normally, the focal point or area is at, or close to, the retina at the posterior of the
                                                                                                  eye.
        [0119]     By introducing an ophthalmic lens 910 as depicted in FIG. 9B, it is possible to
        counteract the natural chromatic aberration of the eye, and as a result bring multiple
                                                                                                    wavelengths
       of the visible spectrum toward a single focal point (e.g. 920b). Hence, the pseudophakic
                                                                                                         eye of
       FIG. 9B provides an improvement in the quality of images seen by the patient.
                                                                                               The light at
  15   different wavelengths is now aligned, or more aligned, as compared
                                                                                 with FIG. 9A. In this way,
       the ophthalmic lens 910 operates to compensate for chromatic aberration produced
                                                                                                  by the eye
       (e.g. ocular chromatic aberration). It is understood that ophthalmic lenses as disclosed
                                                                                                       herein
       can correct or treat chromatic aberration at one or more diffractive orders
                                                                                       or foci.
       [01201     In some instances, light rays at the periphery of the patient eye (e.g. cornea)
                                                                                                     may be
 20    over-refracted, thus producing a region of defocused light that decreases image
                                                                                              quality, for
       example due to spherical aberration. In some cases, the cornea, optionally
                                                                                        in combination with
      other optical parts of the eye, can produce spherical aberration. Hence, spherical
                                                                                                aberration may
      in various instances be referred to as corneal spherical aberration or ocular
                                                                                        spherical aberration.
      An aspheric surface of the ophthalmic lens can compensate for such spherical
                                                                                            aberration, by
25    reducing the amount by which the peripheral light rays are refracted. For example,
                                                                                                  as shown in
      FIG. 9B, an aspheric optical surface of the lens 910 can compensate for a region
                                                                                               of defocused
      light and thereby create a properly or improved focused point of light toward
                                                                                          the retina or
      posterior of the eye, as indicated by arrow A. As shown here, in addition to compensating
                                                                                                          for
      ocular chromatic aberration, the ophthalmic lens also operates to compensate
                                                                                          for ocular spherical
30    aberration, and delivers more accurately focused light toward the posterior
                                                                                        of the eye.
                                                          32

          [01211   According to some embodiments, an ophthalmic lens 900 can operate to treat or correct
         chromatic aberration over a range of foci, or over an extended depth of focus. For example, an
         ophthalmic lens can provide a partial correction or treatment of chromatic aberration in the far
         focus (e.g. focus 730 of FIG. 7), and a substantially larger or full correction or treatment of
   5     chromatic aberration in the intermediate focus (e.g. focus 740 of FIG. 7). Such treatment
                                                                                                         of
         chromatic aberration can be achieved by using a specific diffractive power.
         [0122]    For example, let the n* diffractive order be associated with the far focus of the
        ophthalmic lens, and the jth diffractive order be associated with the intermediate focus
                                                                                                     (focus
        range) of the ophthalmic lens. The difference between the orders is j-n. For an extended
                                                                                                        depth
 10     of focus lens, the difference in lens power (e.g. in unit of Diopters) between the intermediate
                                                                                                            and
        the far vision denotes the range of extended depth of focus.
        [0123]    Relatedly, let the chromatic aberration of the ophthalmic lens in the nh diffractive
       order, or far focus, be characterized as LCAf with the following equation:
       LCAf = LCAr + n*LCAd
 15    [01241     Here, LCA, refers to the longitudinal chromatic aberration of the refractive base
                                                                                                        lens
       and LCAd refers to the longitudinal chromatic aberration of the diffractive profile.
                                                                                                It is noted
      that the above equation includes a    "+" sign, however the value of LCAd in the equation is
      negative.
       [01251     Similarly, the chromatic aberration of the diffractive focus for
                                                                                   the jt diffractive order,
20    or intermediate vision, can be characterized as LCA; with the following
                                                                                   equation:
      LCAi= LCA, +j*LCAd.
      [01261     For designs having correction of ocular chromatic aberration, LCAf and LCA
                                                                                                     should
     have negative values.
     [0127]      Let the chromatic aberration of the aphakic eye be LCAae. Correction of the
                                                                                                   ocular
25   chromatic aberration, without over-correction is obtained if:
               -LCAf 5 LCAae
               and
               -LCAi :5 LCAae
     [0128]      Or:
                                                        33

                 n < (LCAae + LCAr )/(-LCAd)
                j <(LCAae    + LCAr)/(-LCAd)
         [0129]    For example, with a diffractive profile having positive diffractive orders,
                                                                                                    LCAae = 2D,
        LCAr = 1.5D and LCAd = -1.75D. Full chromatic aberration is obtained in the intermediate
   5    vision for the diffraction order ofj = (2+1.5)/1.75 = 2. In such a case, the first diffractive
                                                                                                            order
        leaves the eye with a LCA of (2+1.5-1 * 1.75) = 1.75D, and giving a reduction of LCA by
                                                                                                            1.75D
        of the pseudophakic eye (e.g. artificial lens implanted), and 0.25D reduction of the
                                                                                                    aphakic eye
        (e.g. natural lens removed).
        [0130]     Table 4 provides step height, diameter, optical path difference (OPD in wavelengthX)
  10   and light distribution values for an exemplary diffractive profile, according to embodiments
                                                                                                               of
       the present invention.
                                                       Table 4
       Echelette       Step Height         Outer Diameter        OPD              Light Distribution
                                                                                  ( 1 sT 2 ND)
       1st/Center     hi = 0.0062mm        1.60 mm               1.5 k            two combined echelettes
      2nd             h2 = 0.0062 mm      2.20 mm                1.5 X            provide 41% to 1s order
                                                                                  and 41% to 2 "dorder
                                                                                  (for a distribution between
                                                                                  1" and 2 "dof 50:50)
      3rd             h3 = 0.0062 mm      2.75 mm               1.5 %            seven combined echelettes
      4th            h 4 = 0.0056 mm      3 .17
                                                mm              1.366 k          provide 63% to first order
      5th            h5= 0.0056 mm        3.55 mm               1.366)           and 21% to 2nd order
      6th            h6  = 0.0056 mm      3.88 mm               1.366 X          (for a distribution between
      7th            h 7 =0.0056 mm      4 .20
                                                mm              1.366k           1" and 2     d of 75:25)
     8th             hs = 0.0056mm       4.48 mm               1.366k
     9th             h9 0.0056 mm        4.76 mm               1.366 X
     [0131]     According to some embodiments, the step heights are configured so that the
                                                                                                      lens
     generally functions using the 1 5t and 2 "ddiffractive orders. The specific step
                                                                                            heights used   may
     depend on the refractive index of the material present in the lens, and/or the
                                                                                           wavelength
15   considered. Typically, each step height creates a difference
                                                                      in optical path length. Hence,
                                                        34

          assuming that the refractive index of the aqueous of the eye is 1.336, and considering
                                                                                                       an
          ophthalmic lens material having a refractive index 1.47, an approximately four micron
                                                                                                        step
         height introduces an optical path difference of one wavelength. In some instances,
                                                                                                     embodiments
         of the present invention encompass lens designs having step height values greater
                                                                                                   than four
    5    microns. In some instances, embodiments of the present invention encompass
                                                                                               lens designs
         having step height values within a range between four and
                                                                      8 microns. In some instances,
         embodiments of the present invention encompass lens designs having echelette
                                                                                                step heights that
         introduce optical path difference values that are greater than one.
         [01321    As indicated in Table 4, an exemplary ophthalmic lens can include a
                                                                                               central zone
  10     having two echelettes that operate to direct light between far and intermediate
                                                                                              foci at a 50:50
        relative ratio for an EDOF effect at small and medium pupil sizes.
                                                                                The further peripheral
         echelettes operate in combination to direct light between far and intermediate
                                                                                             foci at a 75:25
        relative ratio, which can maintain an EDOF effect for larger pupil sizes.
        [01331     FIGS. 10A and 10B show modulation transfer function (MTF) curves
                                                                                                for ophthalmic
  15    lens configurations according to embodiments of the present invention
                                                                                     (i.e. Xring 313, Xring
        329, and Xring 305), as compared with other single ring intraocular
                                                                                 lens designs (i.e. IR001 and
        1R002) and standard multifocal intraocular lens designs. Exemplary
                                                                                   single ring designs are
        described in previously incorporated U.S. Patent Application
                                                                        No. 61/288,255 filed December 18,
       2009. Hence, the through focus performance, in white light, of the
                                                                               various designs can be
 20    compared. These graphs are based on measurements of prototype
                                                                              lenses, placed in an eye model
       that is similar to a modified ISO model, as described in Norrby
                                                                          et al., "Model eyes for evaluation
       of intraocular lenses" Appl. Opt. 46(26): 6595-605 (2007), the content
                                                                                    of which is incorporated
       herein by reference. FIG. 1OA illustrates the through focus performance
                                                                                       of the lenses at a pupil
       diameter of 3 mm (e.g. medium pupil size), and FIG. 10B illustrates
                                                                                 the through focus
25     performance of the lenses at a pupil diameter of 5 mm (e.g. large
                                                                           pupil size). The large pupil
      size represents a pupil size under low light conditions. The vertical
                                                                               axis denotes the modulation
      (MTF) at 50 cycles per millimeter. The horizontal axis denotes
                                                                         the defocus in the spectacle
      plane. Defocus in the spectacle plane can be translated into viewing
                                                                                distance, roughly by the
      equation (viewing distance in centimeters) = I 00/(defocus
                                                                    in the spectacle plane). For instance,
30    a defocus of 1.33 Diopters in the spectacle plane corresponds with
                                                                             100/1.33 = 75 centimeters
      viewing distance.
                                                         35

           [01341    As shown here, the peak 1010 at intermediate focus (about 1.3 Diopters in the spectacle
          plane) can change in the horizontal position, by changing the diffractive add power of the
          ophthalmic lens. For example, adjusting the echelette diameters of the central and outer
          diffractive zones (e.g. as shown in FIG. 7) can operate to change the diffractive add power. The
    5    peak 1010 at the intermediate focus can also change in the vertical position, by changing the
          light distribution of the ophthalmic lens. For example, adjusting the step heights of the central
         and outer diffractive zones (e.g. as shown in FIG. 7) can operate to change the light distribution
         percentage at the intermediate focus.
         [0135]     Relatedly, the peak 1020 at far focus (0 Diopters) can change in the vertical position, by
  10     changing the light distribution of the ophthalmic lens. For example, adjusting the step heights
                                                                                                                of
         the central and outer diffractive zones (e.g. as shown in FIG. 7) can operate to change the light
         distribution percentage at the far focus. That is, directing a higher percentage of light to
                                                                                                        the far
        focus will increase the height of peak 1020 upward, and directing a lower percentage of
                                                                                                       light to
        the far focus will decrease the height of peak 1020.
 15     [0136]      Hence, according to some embodiments, variations in lens step heights can operate to
        change light distribution properties of the lens, and with that, the vertical positions of
                                                                                                    1010 and
        1020. Further, variations in ring diameters can operate to change the add power properties
                                                                                                          of the
        lens, and with that, the horizontal positions of 1010.
        [0137]     The result of these variations are shown in FIGS. 1OA and 10B, in which three lens
 20     design embodiments according to the present invention (annotated as "Xring") having
                                                                                                    different
        add powers and light distributions are shown. The lens corresponding to the line labeled
                                                                                                        with
       "Xring 313" has 2.5 Diopter add power, the lens corresponding to the line labeled with
                                                                                                     "Xring
       329 has 1.75 Diopter add power, and the lens corresponding to the line labeled with
                                                                                                 "Xring 305
       has 1.5 Diopter add power. As depicted here, the 1.75 Diopter design of the Xring 329
                                                                                                     lens has
25     an intermediate peak at about 1.3 Diopters, as the horizontal axis denotes defocus in
                                                                                                 the
       spectacle plane. As a general rule, defocus in the spectacle plane is about % of defocus
                                                                                                     in the
       intraocular lens plane (e.g. 3/4*1.75 ~ 1.3). In this sense, the intraocular lens add
                                                                                             power of 1.75
      Diopters can be distinguished from the spectacle plane defocus of 1.3 D.
       [0138]      Additional details regarding the use of modulation transfer function (MTF) to evaluate
30    the performance of a visual system (e.g. ophthalmic lens and/or other optical parts
                                                                                               of the eye) are
                                                          36

        described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009/0210054, which is incorporated herein by
       reference.
        [01391   FIGS. 11A and 11B show modulation transfer function (MTF) data for various
       ophthalmic lens configurations according to embodiments of the present invention (e.g. Xring
   5   designs 302 to 311, 314, and 329), as compared with two regular multifocal intraocular lens
       designs. As shown here, the MTF values at far focus for the ophthalmic lenses according to
       embodiments of the present invention (e.g. Xring designs) are better than the MTF values at far
       focus for these multifocal intraocular lens designs. For a 3 mm pupil, the MTF of embodiments
       of the present invention is 18% to 83% higher than that of current regular multifocal lenses. For
 10    a 5 mm pupil, the MTF of embodiments of the present invention is 39% to 173% higher than that
       of current regular multifocal lenses.
       [0140]    FIG. 12A provides an illustration of US Air Force images by defocus for a 3-mm pupil
       diameter, for various lens design configurations. Defocus values are provided in Diopters, in the
      spectacle plane. As shown here, the Xring designs (307, 311, 314, and 329) provide better
 15   results than a multifocal intraocular lens design, a monofocal lens design, and two single ring
      designs (1ROO 1 and 1R002). The four different Xring designs depicted here each have different
      add power and light distributions. Xring 307 has an add power of 1.5 Diopters, Xring 311 has an
      add power of 2.0 Diopters, Xring 314 has an add power of 2.5 Diopters, and Xring 329 has an
      add power of 1.75 Diopters.
20    [0141]    Model eye data demonstrating that a single ring ophthalmic lens design can provide an
      extended depth of field effect is provide in previously incorporated U.S. Patent Application
                                                                                                    No.
      61/288,255 filed December 18, 2009. FIG. 12A provides defocus images of the US Air Force
     target, corresponding to two intraocular lens designs according US 61/288,255 (e.g. IROO AND
      1R002) and a regular monofocal aspheric intraocular lens design ("Monofocal" in FIG. 12),
                                                                                                    in a
25   modified ISO eye model as described in the previously incorporated Norrby et al., "Model eyes
     for evaluation of intraocular lenses" Appl. Opt. 46(26): 6595-605 (2007).
                                                                                  As depicted here,
     under defocus, the images corresponding to the IROO and 1R002 IOL designs are less blurred
     when the eye is defocused, as compared to those of the monofocal lens design. Up to at least
     2.00 Diopters of defocus, some of the horizontal and vertical bars can still be distinguished with
30   the 1ROO1 and 1R002 designs. In contrast, for the regular monofocal IOL design, the horizontal
     and vertical bars can be distinguished only up to less than -1.00 Diopters. These pictures were
                                                       37

        taken with white light. It may be helpful to evaluate or refer to clinical results in terms of the
        size of the EDOF effect. The Xring designs are intended to provide an enhanced EDOF effect.
        FIG. 12B show the area under the MTF curve, up to 25c/mm, when an exemplary lens of the
        current invention is measured in this same modified ISO eye model. The exemplary lens in FIG.
   5    12B has a base lens configuration with an achromatic design on the posterior side of the lens.
        The achromatic design has a profile height that is equal to one wavelength. The EDOF design is
       placed on top of the achromatic design. The EDOF design of FIG. 12B is seen in Table 4.
        Finally, an aspheric shape on the anterior side of the lens reduces spherical aberration. The
        combination results in the MTF curve seen in FIG. 12B. FIG. 12B also shows the measurement
 10    results of a regular multifocal lens. The graph illustrates that, as opposed to a regular multifocal
       lens, which has two distinct peaks with a valley in between representing two distinct focal points,
       the current design has one broad peak over an extended range of vision representing a gradual
       change of image quality over the extended range. This illustrates that IOLs according to the
       present invention behave in a well-defined different manner compared to regular multifocal
 15    lenses.
       [0142]     The images of FIG. 12 show only part of the range of the exemplary lens according to
       embodiments of the present invention. In some cases, a multifocal lens has a second sharp image
      at about -3 Diopters defocus. In between the best focus (0 Diopter) and the second focus at -3
      Diopters, the multifocal lens may show highly blurred images. However, it should be realized
20    that for a multifocal lens, the visual function at intermediate distances is still at a
                                                                                              functional level,
      with a visual acuity that is often better than 20/40. This observation can be held in mind when
      evaluating the images, as well as those representing designs according to embodiments of the
     present invention.
      [01431     For example, with the Xring 311 design, the USAF image at -1.50 Diopter defocus is
25   sharper than the image at -1.0 Diopter defocus. The magnitude of this feature is much smaller
     than what is observed for a multifocal lens. That is, the sharpness difference between -1.50
     Diopters and -1.00 Diopter is smaller for the Xring design and larger for the multifocal design.
     Moreover, the overall sharpness throughout this range is higher for the Xring design as compared
     to the multifocal design. Therefore, it can be expected that in clinical terms, functional vision at
30   the entire intermediate range is comparable to that at best focus, with a visual acuity of around
     20/20. For example, for Xring 311, the intermediate range is estimated to run from 0 to at least
     1.75 Diopters.
                                                        38

        [01441    Various techniques for evaluating the depth of focus in a visual system (e.g. ophthalmic
        lens and/or other optical parts of the eye) are described in U.S. Patent Publication No.
        2009/0210054, which is incorporated herein by reference.
        [0145]    Ophthalmic lens embodiments of the present invention can be configured to
   5    compensate for various aberrations produced by a patient eye, such as spherical and chromatic
        aberration, which may derive from the cornea and/or other optical parts of the patient eye.
       Hence, methods of designing and/or fabricating such lenses may involve obtaining or using data
       related to aberrations of the patient eye. Any of a variety of aberrometers, including wavefront
       measurement systems, may be used to obtain such aberration data. The components of an
 10    exemplary wavefront measurement system for measuring the eye and aberrations may comprise
       elements of a WaveScan* system, available from AMO MANUFACTURING USA, LLC, Milpitas,
       California. One embodiment includes a WaveScan system with a deformable mirror. An
       alternate embodiment of a wavefront measuring system is described in U.S. Patent No.
       6,271,915, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. It is appreciated that
 15    any wavefront aberrometer could be employed for use with embodiments of the present
       invention. Relatedly, embodiments of the present invention encompass the implementation of
      any of a variety of optical instruments provided by AMO WAVEFRONT           SCIENCES, LLC, including
      the COAS wavefront aberrometer, the ClearWave contact lens aberrometer, the CrystalWave
      IOL aberrometer, and the like.
20    [0146]     In some cases, embodiments of the present invention encompass systems, kits, and
      computer program products for manufacturing or fabricating ophthalmic lenses as disclosed
      herein. Ophthalmic lenses can be fabricated using laser ablation processes, and/or may
      incorporate standard techniques for the manufacture of intraocular lenses, aspects of which are
     described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,856,234, 5,322,649, and 5,888,122, as well as U.S. Patent
25   Publication No. 2002/0082690. The content of each of these patent publications is incorporated
     herein by reference. Relatedly, in some instances manufacturing or fabrication processes may
     include aspects of molding, polishing, measuring of the power, quality control, modeling, and the
     like.
     [01471      FIG. 13 depicts aspects of an exemplary method 1300 for generating an ophthalmic
30   lens prescription according to embodiments of the present invention. In some cases, the method
     may include measuring spherical and/or aberrations of a patient eye. As shown here, the method
                                                         39

        may include inputting a patient parameter data profile as indicated by step 1330. The data
        profile may include (a) a patient spherical aberration parameter corresponding to a measured
        patient spherical aberration 1310 and (b) a patient chromatic aberration parameter corresponding
        to a measured patient chromatic aberration 1320. Further, the method may include generating
   5    the ophthalmic lens prescription for the patient as indicated by step 1340. The ophthalmic lens
       prescription may be configured to compensate for the measured patient spherical and chromatic
        aberrations and to provide an extended depth of focus. In some cases, so as to provide the
       extended depth of focus, the prescription may provide a far focus corresponding to a base power
       and an intermediate focus corresponding to an add power, where a difference between the base
 10    power and the add power defines an extended depth of focus for the ophthalmic lens
       prescription. In some cases, so as to provide the extended depth of focus, the prescription may
       provide a modulation transfer function value at 50 cycles per millimeter of at least 10, for an
       intermediate focus, at 3 mm and 5 mm pupil diameters.
       [0148]    FIG. 14 depicts aspects of an exemplary method 1400 for fabricating an ophthalmic
 15   lens according to embodiments of the present invention. As shown here, the method includes
      inputting an ophthalmic lens prescription for a patient as indicated by step 1410, and fabricating
      the ophthalmic lens based on the prescription as indicated by step 1420. The ophthalmic lens
      prescription may be configured to compensate for a measured patient spherical
                                                                                        aberration,
      compensate for a measured patient chromatic aberration, and provide an extended depth of focus.
20    Relatedly, the lens may be configured to compensate for patient spherical and chromatic
      aberrations, and to provide an extended depth of focus. In some cases, so as to provide the
      extended depth of focus, the lens may provide a far focus corresponding to a base power and an
     intermediate focus corresponding to an add power, where a difference between the base power
      and the add power defines an extended depth of focus for the ophthalmic lens. In some cases, so
25   as to provide the extended depth of focus, the lens may provide a modulation transfer function
     value at 50 cycles per millimeter of at least 10, for an intermediate focus, at 3 mm and 5 mm
     pupil diameters.
     [0149]     FIG. 15 illustrates an exemplary system 1500 for generating an ophthalmic lens
     prescription for an eye of a patient, according to embodiments of the present invention. The
30   system includes an input 1510 that accepts a patient parameter data profile specific for the
     patient eye. The patient parameter data profile may include a patient spherical aberration
     parameter corresponding to a measured spherical aberration of the patient eye, and a patient
                                                       40

        chromatic aberration parameter corresponding to a measured chromatic aberration of the patient
        eye. The system also includes a module 1520 having a tangible medium embodying machine
        readable code that generates the ophthalmic lens prescription for the eye. As shown here, the
        prescription is for a lens that compensates for the measured spherical and chromatic aberrations
   5    and that provides an extended depth of focus. In some cases, so as to provide the extended depth
        of focus, the lens may provide a far focus corresponding to a base power and an intermediate
        focus corresponding to an add power, where a difference between the base power and the add
       power defines an extended depth of focus for the ophthalmic lens. In some cases, so as to
       provide the extended depth of focus, the lens may provide a modulation transfer function value at
 10    50 cycles per millimeter of at least 10, for an intermediate focus, at 3 mm and 5 mm pupil
       diameters.
       [0150]     FIG. 16 depicts an exemplary system 1600 for fabricating an ophthalmic lens for an
       eye of a patient. The system includes an input 1610 that accepts an ophthalmic lens prescription
       for the patient eye. The prescription is for a lens that compensates for measured spherical and
 15   chromatic aberrations of the eye of the patient, and that provides an extended depth of
                                                                                               focus to
      the eye of the patient. The system also includes a manufacturing assembly 1620 in connectivity
      with the input that fabricates an ophthalmic lens according to the lens prescription.
      [0151]     Each of the calculations, operations, methods, and processes described herein may be
      performed using a computer or other processor having hardware, software, and/or firmware.
                                                                                                      The
20    various method steps may be performed by modules, and the modules may comprise any of a
      wide variety of digital and/or analog data processing hardware and/or software arranged
                                                                                                 to
      perform the method steps described herein. The modules optionally comprising data processing
      hardware adapted to perform one or more of these steps by having appropriate machine
     programming code associated therewith, the modules for two or more steps (or portions of
                                                                                                    two or
25   more steps) being integrated into a single processor board or separated into different processor
     boards in any of a wide variety of integrated and/or distributed processing architectures.
                                                                                                 These
     methods and systems will often employ a tangible media embodying machine-readable code
                                                                                                      with
     instructions for performing the method steps described above. Suitable tangible media may
     comprise a memory (including a volatile memory and/or a non-volatile memory), a storage
30   media (such as a magnetic recording on a floppy disk, a hard disk, a tape, or the like; on an
     optical memory such as a CD, a CD-R/W, a CD-ROM, a DVD, or the like; or any other
                                                                                                digital or
     analog storage media), or the like.
                                                        41

  [01521    The embodiments described above, including accompanying drawings, figures,
  functions and tables, are for illustrative purposes to explain aspects of the present invention.
  Hence, while the exemplary embodiments have been described in some detail, by way of
  example and for clarity of understanding, those of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of
5 modification, adaptations, and changes may be employed. Hence, the scope of the claims should
  not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein.
                                                  42

      WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
              1. An ophthalmic lens, comprising:
              a first surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical
      axis;
  5          an aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and
             a diffractive profile imposed on the first or second surface,
             wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light toward a far focus, and
             wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a first non-zero
     percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light toward an
 10  intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone surrounding the central zone that distributes a third
     non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero percentage of light
     toward the intermediate focus, wherein the central zone comprises at least one echelette having a
     step height of about 0.006 millimeters, and wherein the peripheral zone comprises at least one
     echelette having a step height of about 0.0055 millimeters.
 15
             2. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds to
    an add power within a range between 1 Diopter and 2.5 Diopters.
             3. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds to
 !0 an add power between 0.75 and 2 Diopters.
            4. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds to
    an add power of 1.75 Diopters.
25          5. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the far focus corresponds to a first
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
            6. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the far focus corresponds to a second
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
30
            7. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the far focus corresponds to a third
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
                                                        43

           8. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein a difference between the
    intermediate focus and the far field focus corresponds to a power value within a range from
    about 1 Diopter to about 2.5 Diopters.
  5        9. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein a difference between the
    intermediate focus and the far field focus corresponds to a power of about 1.75 Diopters.
           10. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the central zone comprises two or
    more echelettes.
 10
           11. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 1, wherein the central zone comprises two,
    three, or four echelettes.
           12. An ophthalmic lens, comprising:
 15        a first surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical
    axis;
           an aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and
           a diffractive profile imposed on the first or second surface,
           wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light toward a far focus, and
  0       wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a first non-zero
    percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light toward an
    intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone surrounding the central zone that distributes a third
    non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero percentage of light
    toward the intermediate focus, wherein the central zone comprises an inner echelette having an
25  outer diameter of 1.6 mm and an outer echelette having an outer diameter of 2.2 mm, wherein
    the inner and outer echelettes of the central zone each have a step height, and wherein the
    peripheral zone comprises seven echelettes each having a step height less than the step heights of
    the central zone echelettes.
30         13. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the far focus corresponds to a first
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
                                                       44

            14. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the far focus corresponds to a
     second diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
            15. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the far focus corresponds to a third
  5  diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
            16. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the percentage of light distributed
     by the central zone toward the far focus is within a range between 41% and 63%, and the
     percentage of light distributed by the central zone toward the intermediate focus is within a range
 10  between 21% and 41%.
            17. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the percentage of light distributed
    by the central zone toward the far focus is 41% and the percentage of light distributed by the
     central zone toward the intermediate focus is 41%.
 15
            18. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the percentage of light distributed
    by the peripheral zone toward the far focus is 41% or more and the percentage of light
    distributed by the peripheral zone toward the intermediate focus is 41% or less.
 !0         19. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the central zone comprises one or
    more echelettes each having a step height, and wherein the peripheral zone comprises a plurality
    of echelettes each having a step height that is less than the step height of each central zone
    echelette.
25         20. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the central zone comprises two or
    more echelettes.
           21. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 12, wherein the central zone comprises two,
    three, or four echelettes.
30
           22. An ophthalmic lens, comprising:
           a first surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical
    axis;
                                                       45

           an aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and
           a diffractive profile imposed on the first or second surface,
           wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light toward a far focus, and
           wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a first non-zero
  5  percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light toward an
     intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone surrounding the central zone that distributes a third
     non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero percentage of light
     toward the intermediate focus, wherein the central zone comprises at least one echelette having
     an optical path difference of 1.5 wavelengths, and wherein the peripheral zone comprises at least
 10  one echelette having an optical path difference of 1.366 wavelengths.
           23. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds
    to an add power within a range between 1 Diopter and 2.5 Diopters.
 15        24. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds
    to an add power between 0.75 and 2 Diopters.
           25. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds
    to an add power of 1.75 Diopters.
 ?0
           26. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the far focus corresponds to a first
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
           27. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the far focus corresponds to a
25  second diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
           28. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the far focus corresponds to a third
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
30         29. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein a difference between the
    intermediate focus and the far field focus corresponds to a power value within a range from
    about 1 Diopter to about 2.5 Diopters.
                                                       46

           30. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein a difference between the
    intermediate focus and the far field focus corresponds to a power of about 1.75 Diopters.
           31. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the central zone comprises two or
  5 more echelettes.
           32. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 22, wherein the central zone comprises two,
    three, or four echelettes.
 10        33. An ophthalmic lens, comprising:
           a first surface and a second surface, the first and second surfaces disposed about an optical
    axis;
           an aspheric refractive profile imposed on the first or second surface; and
           a diffractive profile imposed on the first or second surface,
 15        wherein the aspheric refractive profile focuses light toward a far focus, and
           wherein the diffractive profile comprises a central zone that distributes a first non-zero
    percentage of light toward a far focus and a second non-zero percentage of light toward an
    intermediate focus, and a peripheral zone surrounding the central zone that distributes a third
    non-zero percentage of light toward the far focus and a fourth non-zero percentage of light
 ?0 toward the intermediate focus, wherein the lens provides an MTF at 50 c/mm of 24 at the
    intermediate focus and an MTF at 50 c/mm of 44 at the far focus.
           34. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds
    to an add power within a range between 1 Diopter and 2.5 Diopters.
25
           35. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds
    to an add power between 0.75 and 2 Diopters.
           36. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the intermediate focus corresponds
30  to an add power of 1.75 Diopters.
           37. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the far focus corresponds to a first
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
                                                       47

           38. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the far focus corresponds to a
    second diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
  5        39. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the far focus corresponds to a third
    diffractive order of the diffractive profile.
           40. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein a difference between the
    intermediate focus and the far field focus corresponds to a power value within a range from
 10 about 1 Diopter to about 2.5 Diopters.
           41. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein a difference between the
    intermediate focus and the far field focus corresponds to a power of about 1.75 Diopters.
 15        42. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the percentage of light distributed
    by the central zone toward the far focus is within a range between 41% and 63%, and the
    percentage of light distributed by the central zone toward the intermediate focus is within a range
    between 21% and 41%.
  M        43. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the percentage of light distributed
    by the central zone toward the far focus is 41% and the percentage of light distributed by the
    central zone toward the intermediate focus is 41%.
           44. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the percentage of light distributed
25  by the peripheral zone toward the far focus is 41% or more and the percentage of light
    distributed by the peripheral zone toward the intermediate focus is 41% or less.
           45. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the central zone comprises one or
    more echelettes each having a step height, and wherein the peripheral zone comprises a plurality
30  of echelettes each having a step height that is less than the step height of each central zone
    echelette.
                                                      48

         46. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the central zone comprises two or
  more echelettes.
         47. The ophthalmic lens according to claim 33, wherein the central zone comprises two,
5 three, or four echelettes.
                                                  49

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
