An autonomous sensor and/or loT device capable of operating on harvested energy,
sensing the environment and transmitting sensed data to the cloud using wireless
communication link. The autonomous sensor/loT device may be integrated with
multiple sensors/loT devices, a logic unit and a radio transmitter to transmit sensory
data to the cloud/server for monitoring or analytic purposes. The sensor system
includes one of electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, acoustic, optical, mechanical,
chemical, thermal and flow sensor.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Dependency of loT devices on batteries is a significant shortcoming for their wide scale adoption. Radio
frequency energy harvesting is a promising solution to provide a sustainable energy source for
autonomous loT devices. Over the past few years, RF energy harvesting has experienced a significant
growth in innovation resulting in developments of various RF harvesting prototypes. This is mainly
driven by the ever increasing number of RF transmitters, which are producing an abundant of ambient
microwave energy waste, which is seen as an opportunity to harvest for low-power loT devices.
Furthermore, the development of wireless power transmission (WPT) technologies that allow
maintenance-free and mobile electronic devices to operate without batteries has further triggered
impetus for RF energy harvesting. A prominent advantage of RF scavenging is the ability to convert RF
energy into electrical power throughout day and night, both outdoors and indoors. Therefore, RF energy
harvesting has the potential to generate a viable energy source for low-powered loT devices anywhere
and anytime with the added benefit of being environmentally friendly.
Efficient RF energy harvesting is a very challenging issue, as it must convert low RF power levels available
in the environment to electrical energy. Furthermore, the scavengable power level can vary
unpredictably, depending on several factors such as the distance from the power source, the
transmission media, the telecommunication traffic density and the antenna orientation. The majority of
available literature on RF harvesting has been dedicated to narrow-band rectennas, which essentially
operate at a single frequency and hence provide low DC output power. However, to increase the
amount of RF energy scavenged by a rectenna, it is crucial to identify and harvest multiple ambient
frequency sources simultaneously.
This invention claims a design for a highly sensitive and efficient rectenna that can harvest specific
frequencies (from ambient or dedicated RF sources) where maximum signal power is available, enabling
greater power harvesting.
In addition a boost circuit design is proposed to convert the rectifier voltage to the voltage of a battery.
This invention has been devised in order to provide a novel RF energy harvesting system employing
ambient RF energy scavenging or WPT techniques.
RF energy can be diffracted from and penetrate inside building materials. Therefor it is possible and
practical to create structural panels with the proposed EH system embedded into common building
materials such as roof tiles, plasterboard and concrete to provide energy to wireless sensors. The
structural panels can be integrated into existing building structures, creating a novel structurally
integrated independent energy scavenging scheme.
In this patent, a unique low-cost energy harvesting system is proposed that can be embedded into loT
devices to minimise their dependencies on batteries. Further the proposed solution can also be
embedded in various construction and end-user product materials.

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

Claims:
    1. An autonomous sensor and/or loT device capable of operating on harvested energy, sensing the
        environment and transmitting sensed data to the cloud.
            " The autonomous sensor/loT device described above, extended and integrated with
                multiple sensors/loT devices, a logic unit and a radio transmitter to transmit sensory
                data to the cloud/server for monitoring or analytic purposes.
            " The autonomous sensor described in this claim, generates a signal corresponding to a
                sensed condition and transmits a corresponding signal via a wireless communication link
                to the cloud/server/distributed sensors.
            " The sensor system of claim 1 includes one of electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic,
                acoustic, optical, mechanical, chemical, thermal and flow sensor.
    2.  Energy Harvester system described in claim 1, comprised of a compact rectenna (combination of
        an antenna, rectifier), and DC/DC converter etched in or on a substrate plus electronic
        components (lumped components or microstrip) covering one or multiple frequencies
        simultaneously for electromagnetic energy harvesting.
            " The Energy Harvester system described in this claim capable of harvesting RF energy
                from a focused beam and/or other sources available in the environment.
            " In this claim, directed electromagnetic energy is directly converted to electricity to
                recharge the onboard batteries or supercapacitors, to extend the operating time of
                autonomous loT devices, wireless sensors and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).
            " The Energy Harvester system described in this claim allows for harvesting of multiple
                frequency bands simultaneously. Wherein each frequency band consists of several
                frequencies.
            "   Multi-band technique provides maximum power transfer from the antenna to the
                rectifier circuit using RF combining technique. The technique can provide higher DC
                power than combining two separate single frequency rectifier circuits operating at the
                same frequencies.
            "   Rectifier described in this claim, is capable of harvesting RF signals (ambient or
                transmitted signal) from multiple frequency bands across a broad range of spectrum (50
                MHz to 3 GHz)
            "   Rectifier described in this claim is highly sensitive and iscapable of harvesting RF signals
                over a broad range of very low and medium power levels from 0.001 pW to 10 mW (-60
                to 10 dBm).
            "   Rectifier described in this claim consists of at least one rectifying device (diode or
                transistor) or multiple rectifying devices to create voltage doubler/multiplier topologies.
            "   The Energy Harvester system described in this claim consists of a multi resonator
                matching network with an optimum bandwidth at each operating frequency band.
                Depending on the frequency band, the matching network is designed using lumped
                components or microstip lines.
            "   The Energy Harvester system described in this claim consists of a single band/
                multiband/broadband very compact antenna(s) capable of receiving multiple frequency
                bands concurrently.

            "    Antenna described in this claim, is embedded in/on substrate as an integrated part of
                 the described rectifier in claim 2.
            *    Antenna described in this claim, is circularly polarized and highly sensitive antenna with
                 high gain which is capable of harvesting RF signals with different polarizations over a
                 broad range of very low and medium power levels.
3. The multi-resonator RF Energy Harvester system described in claim 2 can be integrated with multiple
RF energy harvesters to create multi-resonator rectenna arrays.
            *    The rectenna array in this claim allows to harvest multiple frequency bands such as
                 broadcasting (FM radio, digital and analogue TV), cellular systems, WiFi.
            "    Each module consists of several rectennas, while each rectenna consists of
                 multi-resonators. This allows for maximising energy harvesting.
4. The RF Energy Harvester system described in claim 2, can be embedded into structural panels
composed from common building materials such as roof tiles, plasterboard and concrete to provide
energy to wireless sensors. The structural panels can be integrated into existing building structures,
creating a novel structurally integrated independent energy scavenging scheme.
            *    In this claim, the RF energy harvester will be part of the existing building/bridge/tunnel
                 structure and there is no need for an external panel to be mounted on a
                 building/bridge/tunnel, the rectenna will be part of the existing structure.
5. The Energy Harvester system described in claim 2, can be embedded into the skin of autonomous
systems such as UAVs (hard-integrated system, fibre reinforced composites).
            *    The embedded rectenna described in this claim can harvest RF energy to charge
                 batteries or supercapacitors, hence extending the operating time of UAVs and reducing
                 the need for UAVs to carry extra batteries which add weight and potentially eliminating
                 the need for these systems to return to base for recharging.

