                                            ABSTRACT
   The present invention addresses an ongoing need in the art to improve the stability of
   immunogenic compositions such as polysaccharide-protein conjugates and protein
   immunogens. The invention broadly relates to novel formulations which stabilize and
 5 inhibit precipitation of immunogenic compositions. More particularly, the invention
   described hereinafter, addresses a need in the art for formulations which stabilize and
   inhibit particulate formation (e.g., aggregation, precipitation) of immunogenic
   compositions which are processed, developed, formulated, manufactured and/or stored
   incontainer means such as fermentors, bioreactors, vials, flasks, bags, syringes, rubber
10 stoppers, tubing and the like.

      NOVEL FORMULATIONS WHICH STABILIZE AND INHIBIT PRECIPITATION OF
                                  IMMUNOGENIC COMPOSITIONS
            The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention generally relates to the fields of immunology, bacteriology,
   vaccine formulation, protein stability and process development. More particularly, the
   invention relates to novel formulations which inhibit precipitation of immunogenic
   compositions.
10                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             It is generally accepted in the bio-pharmaceutical arts, that improving the
   stability of an immunogenic composition (e.g., a protein immunogen, a polysaccharide
   protein conjugate) is a necessary and highly desirable goal. For example, an
   immunogenic composition must appear fresh, elegant and professional when
15 administered to a patient. Any changes in stability and/or physical appearance of the
   immunogenic composition, such as color change, clouding or haziness, may cause a
   patient or consumer to lose confidence in the product. Furthermore, because many
   immunogenic formulations are dispensed in multiple-dose containers, uniformity of dose
   content of the active ingredient (e.g., a polysaccharide-protein conjugate) over time
20 must be assured (e.g., a cloudy solution can lead to a nonuniform dosage pattern).
   Additionally, the immunogenic composition must be active throughout its "expected"
   shelf life, wherein any breakdown of the immunogenic composition to an inactive or
   otherwise undesired form (e.g., an aggregate) lowers the total concentration of the
   product.
25          Several reports in the literature have suggested that the stability of a particular
   immunogenic composition (e.g., a protein immunogen, a polysaccharide-protein
   conjugate) is at least in part dependent upon the specific protein or carrier protein (Ho
   et ai, 2001 ; Ho et ai, 2002; Bolgiano et ai, 2001 ). For example, stability
                                                   1

   analysis of meningococcal C (MenC) polysaccharides and Haernophilus influenzae
   type b (Hib) polysaccharides, conjugated to either a tetanus toxoid (TT) or a CRM197
   carrier protein, revealed different stability profiles dependent on the carrier protein
   (Ho et al., 2002). In another study (Ho et al., 2001), MenC-CRM1r conjugates from
 5 two different manufacturers were analyzed (Ho et al., 2001), wherein the MenC
   CRM 197 conjugates differed in their conjugation chemistry and length of conjugate
   polysaccharide (both having the same carrier protein, CRM197 ). Data from this study
   further indicated that factors such as conjugation chemistry (e.g., reductive amination
   either directly or via a chemical spacer group), number of conjugation sites,
10 polysaccharide chain length, pH, storage buffer, storage temperature(s) and
   freeze/thaw cycles also influence the stability of an immunogenic composition.
           Thus, when developing a formulation for an immunogenic composition, many
   factors must be considered to ensure a safe, stable, robust and cost effective
   product. Such considerations include, but am not limited to, chemical stability of the
15 immunogenic composition (e.g., hydrolysis of saccharides, de-polymerization of
   polysaccharides, proteolysis or fragmentation of proteins), physical/thermal stability
   of the immunogenic composition (e.g., aggregation, precipitation, adsorption),
   compatibility of the immunogenic composition with the container/closure system,
   interactions between immunogenic composition and inactive ingredients (e.g,
20 buffers, salts, excipients, cryoprotectants), the manufacturing process, the dosage
   form (e.g., lyophilized, liquid), the environmental conditions encountered during
   shipping, storage and handling (e.g., temperature, humidity, shear forces), and the
   length of time between manufacture and usage.
            It has been suggested in the art, that silicone oil, which induces protein
25 secondary and tertiary conformational changes, might be responsible for the
   aggregation/precipitation seen in certain protein pharmaceutical preparations (Jones
   et al., 2005). For example, several reports in the 1980s implicated the release of
   silicone oil from disposable plastic syringes as the causative agent in the aggregation
   of human insulin (Chantelau and Berger, 1985; Chantelau et al., 1986; Chantelau,
30  1989; Bernstein, 1987; Baldwin, 1988; Collier and Dawson, 1985). Chantelau et al.
   (1986) observed that after three or more withdrawals from a ten-dose preparation of
   insulin (using a siliconized disposable syringe), the vial would begin clouding due
   silicone oil contamination, thereby resulting in aggregation and deactivation of the
   insulin (Chantelau et al., 1986). Paradoxically, silicone oil is a necessary component
35 of plastic syringes, as it serves to lubricate the rubber plunger and facilitate transfer
   of the plunger down the syringe barrel (i.e., silicone oil improves the syringeability of
   the formulation).
                                              -2-

            Furthermore, the use of silicone oil is not limited to syringes, as it is used as a
   coating for glass vials to minimize protein adsorption, as a lubricant to prevent
   conglomeration of rubber stoppers during filing procedures, as a lubricant critical to
   the processability/machinability of glass and elastomeric closures and as a lubricant
 5 to ease needle penetration of vial rubber stoppers. Additionally, the siliconization of
   syringes, glass vials, rubber stoppers and the like, is not a well controlled nor
   standardized process, and as such, there is a high degree of variability of the silicone
   oil content from one lot to another.
            There is therefore an ongoing need in the art for formulations which enhance
10 stability and inhibit precipitation of immunogenic compositions.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention broadly relates to novel formulations which stabilize
   and inhibit precipitation of immunogenic compositions. More specifically in certain
15 embodiments, the present invention is directed to novel formulations which inhibit
   precipitation of immunogenic compositions comprised in container means. In one
   specific embodiment, the invention is directed to novel formulations which stabilize
   immunogenic compositions against silicone oil interactions, shear forces, shipping
   agitation, and the like.
20          Thus, in certain embodiments, the invention is directed to formulations which
   stabilize a polysaccharide-protein conjugate, the formulation comprising (i) a pH
   buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, (ii) a
   surfactant and (iii) one or more polysaccharide-protein conjugates. In one specific
   embodiment, the polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation is comprised in a
25 container means. In certain embodiments, the container means is selected from one
   or more of the group consisting of a vial, a vial stopper, a vial closure, a glass
   closure, a rubber closure, a plastic closure, a syringe, a syringe stopper, a syringe
   plunger, a flask, a beaker, a graduated cylinder, a fermentor, a bioreactor, tubing, a
   pipe, a bag, a jar, an ampoule, a cartridge and a disposable pen.                  In certain
30 embodiments, the container means is siliconized.
            In certain embodiments, the pH buffered saline solution of the formulations
   has a pH of 5.5 to 7.5. In other embodiments, the buffer is phosphate, succinate,
   histidine or citrate.    In certain embodiments, the buffer is succinate at a final
   concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0. In one particular embodiment,
35 the final concentration of the succinate buffer is 5 mM. In other embodiments, the
   salt in the pH buffered saline solution comprises magnesium chloride, potassium
                                               -3-

   chloride, sodium chloride or a combination thereof. In one particular embodiment,
   the salt in the pH buffered saline solution is sodium chloride.
           In another embodiment, the surfactant of the formulations is selected from the
   group consisting of polysorbate 20 (Tween'M20), polysorbate 40 (Tween M 40),
 5 polysorbate     60   (TweenTM 60),    polysorbate     65    (TweenT M 65), polysorbate 80
   (TweenT'80), polysorbate 85 (Tweent85), TritonT' N-101, TritonT M X-100, oxtoxynol
   40,     nonoxynol-9,      triethanolamine,      triethanolamine       polypeptide    oleate,
   polyoxyethylene-660 hydroxystearate (PEG-15, Solutol H15), polyoxyethylene-35
   ricinoleate (Cremophor ELT"), soy lecithin and a poloxamer.               In one particular
10 embodiment, the surfactant is polysorbate 80.            In another embodiment, the final
   concentration of the polysorbate 80 in formulation is at least 0.01% to 10%
   polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.           In other embodiments, the final
   concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 0.01% polysorbate 80
   weight/volume of the formulation. In yet other embodiments, the final concentration
15 of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 0.05% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the
   formulation. In another embodiment, the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in
   the formulation is 0.1% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation. In certain
   other embodiments, the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is
    1.0% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation. In yet other embodiments,
20 the final     concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation              is 10.0%
   polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.
           In another embodiment, the polysaccharide-protein conjugate comprises one
   or more pneumococcal polysaccharides. In certain embodiments, the one or more
   pneumococcal polysaccharides are a S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide, a S.
25 pneumoniae       serotype 6B      polysaccharide,     a S. pneumoniae         serotype   9V
   polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 14 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 18C polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide, a S.
   pneumoniae       serotype    23F   polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae              serotype   1
   polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 3 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae
30 serotype 5 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 6A polysaccharide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 7F polysaccharide and a S. pneumoniae serotype 19A
   polysaccharide. In certain embodiments, the protein of the polysaccharide-protein
   conjugate formulation is selected from the group consisting of CRM, 97 , a tetanus
   toxoid, a cholera toxoid, a pertussis toxoid, an E. coli heat labile toxoid (LT),a
35 pneumolysin toxoid, pneumococcal surface protein A (PspA), pneumococcal adhesin
   protein A (PsaA), a C5a peptidase from Streptococcus, Haemophilus influenzae
                                               -4-

   protein D, ovalbumin, keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH), bovine serum albumin
   (BSA) and purified protein derivative of tuberculin (PPD).
            In one specific embodiment, the polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation
   is a 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate (7vPnC) formulation comprising a S.
 5 pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19r polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 6B polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM1 97 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 9V polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19 7 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 18C polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 97 polypeptide, a S.
10 pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide and a
   S. pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM10 7 polypeptide.
            In another specific embodiment, the polysaccharide-protein conjugate
   formulation is a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate (13vPnC) formulation comprising
   a S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19 7 polypeptide, a
15 S. pneumoniae serotype 6B polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 9V polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19 r polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19r polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 18C polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM, 9, polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S.
20 pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19, polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype I polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 3 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 5 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM10 7 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 6A polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S.
25 pneumoniae serotype 7F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide and a
   S. pneumoniae serotype 19A polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide.
            In other embodiments, the formulation further comprises one or more
   meningococcal polysaccharides, one or more meningococcal antigenic proteins, or a
   combination thereof. In yet other embodiments, the formulation further comprises
30 one or more streptococcal polysaccharides, one or more streptococcal antigenic
   proteins, or a combination thereof.
            In certain other embodiments, the formulation further comprises one or more
   adjuvants. Exemplary suitable adjuvants are described herein below.
            In other embodiments, the invention is directed to formulations which stabilize
35 a streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP) composition, the formulation comprising (i) a
   pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 6.5,
   (ii) a surfactant and (iii) a streptococcal C5a peptidase. In one specific embodiment,
                                               -S -

   SCP formulation is comprised in a container means. In certain embodiments, the
   container means is selected from one or more of the group consisting of a vial, a vial
   stopper, a vial closure, a glass closure, a rubber closure, a plastic closure, a syringe,
   a syringe stopper, a syringe plunger, a flask, a beaker, a graduated cylinder, a
 5 fermentor, a bioreactor, tubing, a pipe, a bag, a jar, an ampoule, a cartridge and a
   disposable pen.
            In other embodiments, the pH buffered saline solution of the formulation has a
   pH of 5.5 to 7.5. In other embodiments, the buffer is succinate, histidine, phosphate
   or citrate. In one specific embodiment, the buffer is succinate at a final concentration
10 of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0. In another specific embodiment, the final
   concentration of the succinate buffer is 5 mM. In yet other embodiments, the salt in
   the pH buffered saline solution comprises magnesium chloride, potassium chloride,
   sodium chloride or a combination thereof,
            In certain embodiments, the surfactant in the formulations is selected from the
15 group consisting of polysorbate 20 (TweenTh20), polysorbate 40 (TweenT-40),
   polysorbate     60   (Tweent "60),   polysorbate    65  (Tweent-65),    polysorbate    80
   (Tween'80), polysorbate 85 (Tweenr 4 85), Triton" 4 N-101, TritonTM X-100, oxtoxynol
   40,     nonoxynol-9,      triethanolamine,    triethanolamine     polypeptide     oleate,
   polyoxyethylene-660 hydroxystearate (PEG-15, Solutol H15), polyoxyethylene-35
20 ricinoleate (Cremophor ELT"), soy lecithin and a poloxamer.              In one specific
   embodiment, the surfactant is polysorbate 80.         In certain embodiments, the final
   concentration of the polysorbate 80 in formulation is 0,01% to 10% polysorbate 80
   weight/volume of the formulation. In yet other embodiments, the final concentration
   of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 0.01% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the
25 formulation. In other embodiments, the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in
   the formulation is 0.05% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.          In yet
   other embodiments, the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is
   0.1% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation. In another embodiment, the
   final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 1.0% polysorbate 80
30 weight/volume of the formulation. In yet another embodiment, the final concentration
   of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 10.0% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the
   formulation.
            In certain other embodiments, the SCP composition further comprises one or
   more polypeptides selected from the group consisting of a streptococcal polypeptide,
35 a pneumococcal polypeptide, a meningococcal polypeptide and a staphylococcal
   polypeptide. In still other embodiments, the SCP composition further comprises one
                                              -6-

   or more polysaccharides selected from the group consisting of a streptococcal
   polysaccharide, a pneumococcal polysaccharide, a meningococcal polysaccharide
   and a staphylococcal polysaccharide.
            In another embodiment, the formulation further comprises one or more
 5 adjuvants. Exemplary suitable adjuvants are described herein below.
            In another embodiment, the invention is directed to formulations which inhibit
   silicone induced precipitation of a polysaccharide-protein conjugate comprised in a
   siliconized container means, the formulation comprising (i) a pH buffered saline
   solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, (ii) an aluminum salt
10 and (iii) one or more polysaccharide-protein conjugates. In certain embodiments, the
   siliconized container means is selected from one or more of the group consisting of a
   vial, a vial stopper, a vial closure, a glass closure, a rubber closure, a plastic closure,
   a syringe, a syringe stopper, a syringe plunger, a flask, a beaker, a graduated
   cylinder, a fermentor, a bioreactor, tubing, a pipe, a bag, a jar, an ampoule, a
15 cartridge and a disposable pen.
            In certain embodiments, the pH buffered saline solution in the formulations
   has a pH of 5.5 to 7.5. In other embodiments, the buffer in the formulations is
   phosphate, succinate, histidine or citrate. In yet other embodiments, the buffer is
   succinate at a final concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0. In one
20 particular embodiment, the final concentration of the succinate buffer is 5 mM. In still
   other embodiments, the salt in the pH buffered saline solution comprises magnesium
   chloride, potassium chloride, sodium chloride or a combination thereof.             In one
   particular embodiment, the salt in the pH buffered saline solution is sodium chloride.
            In other embodiments, the aluminum salt is aluminum hydroxide, aluminum
25 phosphate or aluminum sulfate. In one specific embodiment, the aluminum salt is
   aluminum phosphate.
            In certain other embodiments, the formulation further comprises polysorbate
   80 (TweenTM80).        In one specific embodiment, the final concentration of the
   polysorbate 80 in formulation is at least 0.01% to 10% polysorbate 80 weight/volume
30 of the formulation.
            In another embodiment, the polysaccharide-protein conjugate comprises one
   or more pneumococcal polysaccharides. In certain embodiments, the one or more
   pneumococcal polysaccharides are a S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide, a S.
   pneumoniae       serotype    6B   polysaccharide,    a   S.  pneumoniae     serotype    9V
35 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 14 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 18C polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide, a S.
   pneumoniae       serotype    23F    polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae           serotype    1
                                               -7-

   polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 3 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 5 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 6A polysaccharide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 7F polysaccharide and a S. pneumoniae serotype 19A
   polysaccharide.
 5         In certain other embodiments, the protein of the polysaccharide-protein
   conjugate formulation is selected from the group consisting of CRM197 , a tetanus
   toxoid, a cholera toxoid, a pertussis toxoid, an E coli heat labile toxoid (LT),a
   pneumolysin toxoid, pneumococcal surface protein A (PspA), pneumococcal adhesin
   protein A (PsaA), a C5a peptidase from Streptococcus, Haemophilus influenzae
10 protein D, ovalbumin, keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH), bovine serum albumin
   (BSA) and purified protein derivative of tuberculin (PPD).
           In one particular     embodiment, the        polysaccharide-protein  conjugate
   formulation is a 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate (7vPnC) formulation comprising a
   S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
15 pneumoniae serotype 6B polysaccharide conjugated to a CRMw polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 9V polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19r polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 18C polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM, 9, polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19 polypeptide and a
20 S. pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 9 y polypeptide.
           In another specific embodiment, the polysaccharide-protein conjugate
   formulation is a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate (13vPnC) formulation comprising
   a S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a
   S. pneumoniae serotype 6B polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19 r polypeptide, a S.
25 pneumoniae serotype 9V polysaccharide conjugated to a CRMg 7 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 18C polysaccharide conjugated to a CRMy polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19 7 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19r polypeptide, a S.
30 pneumoniae serotype I polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM1I         7  polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 3 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 5 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19 7 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 6A polysaccharide conjugated to a CRMg 7 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 7F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM1e polypeptide and a
35 S. pneumoniae serotype 19A polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19y polypeptide.
                                             -8-

            In yet other embodiments, the formulation further comprises one or more
   meningococcal polysaccharides, one or more meningococcal antigenic proteins, or a
   combination thereof.
            In another embodiment, the formulation further comprises one or more
 5 streptococcal polysaccharides, one or more streptococcal antigenic proteins, or a
   com bination thereof.
            In certain other embodiments, the formulation further comprises one or more
   adjuvants. Exemplary suitable adjuvants are described herein below.
            In other embodiments, the present invention is directed to formulations which
10 inhibit silicone induced precipitation of a streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP)
   composition comprised in a siliconized container means, the formulation comprising
   (i) a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about
   6.5, (ii) an aluminum salt and (iii) a streptococcal C5a peptidase.             In certain
   embodiments, the container means is selected from one or more of the group
15 consisting of a vial, a vial stopper, a vial closure, a glass closure, a rubber closure, a
   plastic closure, a syringe, a syringe stopper, a syringe plunger, a flask, a beaker, a
   graduated cylinder, a fermentor, a bioreactor, tubing, a pipe, a bag, a jar, an
   ampoule, a cartridge and a disposable pen.
            In another embodiment, the pH buffered saline solution of the formulation has
20 a pH of 5.5 to 7.5.         In other embodiments, the buffer is succinate, histidine,
   phosphate or citrate.      In certain embodiments, the buffer is succinate at a final
   concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0. In another embodiment, the salt
   in the pH buffered saline solution comprises magnesium chloride, potassium
   chloride, sodium chloride or a combination thereof.
25          In certain other embodiments, the formulation further comprises polysorbate
   80 (Tween       80).   In one specific embodiment, the final concentration of the
   polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 0.01% to 10% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of
   the formulation.
            In yet other embodiments, the SCP composition further comprises one or
30 more polypeptides selected from the group consisting of a streptococcal polypeptide,
   a pneumococcal polypeptide, a meningococcal polypeptide and a staphylococcal
   polypeptide.
            In certain other embodiments, the SCP composition further comprises one or
   more polysaccharides selected from the group consisting of a streptococcal
35 polysaccharide, a pneumococcal polysaccharide, a meningococcal polysaccharide
   and a staphylococcal polysaccharide.
                                               - 9-

            In yet another embodiment, the formulation further comprises one or more
   adjuvants. Exemplary suitable adjuvants are described herein below.
            In other embodiments, the invention is directed to formulations which stabilize
   a N. meningitidis 2086 protein composition, the formulation comprising (i) a pH
 5 buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 6.5, (ii) a
   surfactant and (iii) a N. meningitidis 2086 protein. Exemplary N. menrigitidis 2086
   proteins are described herein below. In one specific embodiment, the N, meningitidis
   2086 protein formulation is comprised in a container means. In certain embodiments,
   the container means is selected from one or more of the group consisting of a vial, a
10 vial stopper, a vial closure, a glass closure, a rubber closure, a plastic closure, a
   syringe, a syringe stopper, a syringe plunger, a flask, a beaker, a graduated cylinder,
   a fermentor, a bioreactor, tubing, a pipe, a bag, a jar, an ampoule, a cartridge and a
   disposable pen.
            In other embodiments, the pH buffered saline solution of the formulation has a
15 pH of 5.5 to 7.5. In other embodiments, the buffer is succinate, histidine, phosphate
   or citrate. In one specific embodiment, the buffer is succinate at a final concentration
   of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0. In another specific embodiment, the final
   concentration of the succinate buffer is 5 mM. In yet other embodiments, the salt in
   the pH buffered saline solution comprises magnesium chloride, potassium chloride,
20 sodium chloride or a combination thereof.
            In certain embodiments, the surfactant in the formulations is selected from the
   group consisting of polysorbate 20 (TweenTM 20), polysorbate 40 (Tween'"40),
   polysorbate     60   (Tween "60),    polysorbate    65  (TweenTM 65),   polysorbate   80
   (TweenTM8O), polysorbate 85 (TweenTM85), TritonM N-101, TritonT X-100, oxtoxynol
25 40,     nonoxynol-9,     triethanolamine,     triethanolamine     polypeptide     oleate,
   polyoxyethylene-660 hydroxystearate (PEG-15, Solutol H15), polyoxyethylene-35
   ricinoleate (Cremophor ELT"), soy lecithin and a poloxamer.             In one specific
   embodiment, the surfactant is polysorbate 80.         In certain embodiments, the final
   concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation             is 0.01%     to 10%
30 polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation. In yet other embodiments, the final
   concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 0.01% polysorbate 80
   weight/volume of the formulation.     In other embodiments, the final concentration of
   the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 0.05% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the
   formulation. In yet other embodiments, the final concentration of the polysorbate 80
35 in the formulation is 0.1%      polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.       In
   another embodiment, the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation
                                             -10-

   is 1.0%      polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.             In yet another
   embodiment, the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 10.0%
   polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.
           In certain other embodiments, the N. meningitidis 2086 protein composition
 5 further comprises one or more polypeptides selected from the group consisting of a
   streptococcal     polypeptide,    a   pneumococcal      polypeptide,   a   meningococcal
   polypeptide and a staphylococcal polypeptide. In still other embodiments, the N.
   meningitidis     2086    protein    composition   further   comprises     one   or more
   polysaccharides      selected    from   the   group    consisting   of   a streptococcal
10 polysaccharide, a pneumococcal polysaccharide, a meningococcal polysaccharide
   and a staphylococcal polysaccharide.
           In another embodiment, the formulation further comprises one or more
   adjuvants. Exemplary suitable adjuvants are described herein below.
           In other embodiments, the present invention is directed to formulations which
15 inhibit silicone induced precipitation of a N. meningitidis 2086 protein composition
   comprised in a siliconized container means, the formulation comprising (i) a pH
   buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 6.5, (ii)
   an aluminum salt and (iii) a N. meningitidis 2086 protein. In certain embodiments,
   the container means is selected from one or more of the group consisting of a vial, a
20 vial stopper, a vial closure, a glass closure, a rubber closure, a plastic closure, a
   syringe, a syringe stopper, a syringe plunger, a flask, a beaker, a graduated cylinder,
   a fermentor, a bioreactor, tubing, a pipe, a bag, a jar, an ampoule, a cartridge and a
   disposable pen.
           In another embodiment, the pH buffered saline solution of the formulation has
25 a pH of 5.5 to 75.          In other embodiments, the buffer is succinate, histidine,
   phosphate or citrate.      In certain embodiments, the buffer is succinate at a final
   concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0. In another embodiment, the salt
   in the pH buffered saline solution comprises magnesium chloride, potassium
   chloride, sodium chloride or a combination thereof.
30         In certain other embodiments, the formulation further comprises polysorbate
   80 (TweenM80).         In one specific embodiment, the final concentration of the
   polysorbate 80 in the formulation is 0.01% to 10% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of
   the formulation.
           In yet other embodiments, the N. meningitidis 2086 protein composition
35 further comprises one or more polypeptides selected from the group consisting of a
   streptococcal     polypeptide,    a   pneumococcal      polypeptide,   a   meningococcal
   polypeptide and a staphylococcal polypeptide.
                                              - II -

           In certain other embodiments, the N. meningitidis 2086 protein composition
   further comprises one or more polysaccharides selected from the group consisting of
   a streptococcal polysaccharide, a pneumococcal polysaccharide, a meningococcal
   polysaccharide and a staphylococcal polysaccharide.
 5         In yet another embodiment, the formulation further comprises one or more
   adjuvants. Exemplary suitable adjuvants are described herein below.
           Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
   following detailed description, from the embodiments thereof, and from the claims.
10                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
           Figure 1 shows the stability of Streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP)
   formulations (filled in syringes) before and after two days of gentle agitation (60 cpm)
   on a horizontal orbital shaker. The data presented in FIG. 1A is the two day stability
   of the SCP formulated without any TweenTM80 (i.e., 0%), whereas the data in FIG. 1B
15 is the two day stability of the SCP formulated with 0.025% Tween TM 80. The buffers
   used in the formulations shown in FIG. 1A and 1B are succinate buffered saline
   (SBS), phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane
   (TRIS).
           Figure 2 shows the total antigenicity loss of the 13vPnC formulated with
20 AIPO 4 (0.25 mg/mi) and filled in a BD Hypak syringe, after two hours, eight hours and
   twenty-four hours of agitation at 500 rpm and 2-8*C.
           Figure 3 shows the total antigenicity loss of the 13vPnC formulated with
   AIPO 4 (0.25 mg/ml) and filled in an un-siliconized syringe, after two hours, eight
   hours and twenty-four hours of agitation at 500 rpm and 2-80 C.
25         Figure 4 shows the total antigenicity loss of the 13vPnC formulated with
   AIPO 4 (0.25 mg/ml) and filled in a Vetter syringe, after two hours, eight hours and
   twenty-four hours of agitation at 500 rpm and 2-8 0 C.
           Figure 5 shows the total antigenicity loss of the 13vPnC formulated with
   AIPO 4 (0.25 mg/ml) and filled in a Schott TopPac syringe, after two hours, eight hours
30 and twenty-four hours of agitation at 500 rpm and 2-8*C.
           Figure 6 shows the total antigenicity loss of the 13vPnC formulated with (FIG.
   6A) and without (FIG. 6B) AIPO 4 (0.25 mg/ml) and filled in a BD Baked syringe, after
   two hours, eight hours and twenty-four hours of agitation at 500 rpm and 2-80 C.
           Figure 7 shows the total antigenicity loss of the 13vPnC formulated with (FIG.
35 7A) and without (FIG. 78) AIPO 4 (0.25 mg/ml) and filled in a BlnderGlas PS2
                                             - 12 -

   syringe, after two hours, eight hours and twenty-four hours of agitation at 500 rpm
   and 2-8*C.
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 5          The present invention addresses an ongoing need in the art to improve the
   stability of immunogenic compositions such as polysaccharide-protein conjugates
   and protein immunogens.         Thus, the present invention broadly relates to novel
   surfactant formulations and/or novel aluminum salt formulations which stabilize and
   inhibit precipitation of immunogenic compositions.      More particularly, the invention
10 described hereinafter, addresses a need in the art for formulations which stabilize
   and inhibit particulate formation (e.g., aggregation, precipitation) of immunogenic
   compositions which are processed, developed, formulated, manufactured and/or
   stored in container means such as fermentors, bioreactors, vials, flasks, bags,
   syringes, rubber stoppers, tubing and the like.
15          As set forth above in the Background of the Invention, various factors
   influence the stability of immunogenic compositions, including, but not limited to,
   chemical stability of the immunogenic composition, physical/thermal stability of the
   immunogenic composition, compatibility of the immunogenic composition with the
   container/closure system, interactions between immunogenic composition and
20 inactive ingredients (e.g., buffers, salts, excipients, cryoprotectants), manufacturing
   processes, dosage form, environmental conditions encountered during shipping,
   storage and handling (e.g., temperature, humidity, shear forces), and the length of
   time between manufacture and usage.
            The stability of an immunogenic composition of the invention is readily
25 determined using standard techniques, which are well known and routine to those of
   skill in the art. For example, an immunogenic composition is assayed for stability,
   aggregation, immunogenicity, particulate formation, protein (concentration) loss, and
   the like, by methods including, but not limited to, light scattering, optical density,
   sedimentation velocity centrifugation, sedimentation equilibrium centrifugation,
30 circular dichroism (CD), Lowry assay, bicinchoninic acid (BCA) assay, antibody
   binding, and the like.
            As set forth in detail herein, the present invention relates to the unexpected
   and surprising results that formulating an immunogenic composition with a surfactant
   such as Tweenw8 significantly enhances the stability and inhibits precipitation of an
35 immunogenic composition.        For example, it was observed in the present invention
   (e.g., see Example 2), that a thirteen-valent pneumococcal conjugate (13vPnC),
                                              - 13 -

   formulated in buffered saline and filled in a single does syringe, would begin
   precipitating out of solution within ten minutes at 2-8*C upon gentle agitation via a
   horizontal orbital shaker. (The horizontal orbital shaker was used to simulate typical
   process, shipping and storage conditions of a 13vPnC immunogenic composition).
 5 However, it was surprisingly observed that the 13vPnC, formulated in buffered saline
   and 0.001% TweenTM80, filled in a single dose syringe and gently agitated at 2-8*C,
   was stable for twenty-five days with no visible signs of precipitation (data not shown).
   Thus, this data demonstrated that the addition of a surfactant (e.g., Tweenm80) to an
   immunogenic composition formulation enhances the stability of the immunogenic
10 composition.
           A second stability study of the 13vPnC further confirmed that the addition of a
   surfactant to the formulation significantly enhanced the stability of the 13vPnC. For
   example, the stability (i.e., assayed by measuring change in 13vPnC antigenicity) of
   a 13vPnC formulation with 0.05% TweenTM80 (Table 1) and without TweenT M 80
15 (0.0%, Table 1) was assessed over a two hour time period. As is shown in Table 1,
   there was a significant decrease in antigenicity of the thirteen serotype
   polysaccharides (formulated without TweentM80) within the two hour assay . Quite
   dramatically however, the 13vPnC formulation comprising 0.05% Tweent80 (Table
   1), demonstrated robust stability throughout the two hour antigenicity assay. It was
20 also observed that the 13vPnC formulated in 250 mL glass bottles with either 0.01%
   TweenTm80 or 0.05% TweenTM80 could withstand significant shear forces induced via
   vortexing the formulations for thirty minutes at 2-8SC, with little or no loss in
   antigenicity (e.g., see Example 2, Table 2).
           In other experiments (Example 3), it was demonstrated that the stability of an
25 immunogenic streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP) composition was greatly enhanced
   when formulated with a surfactant such as Tween80. For example, as shown in
   FIG. 1A, after two days of vortexing an SCP (55 gg/mL) formulated in either a 5 mM
   succinate buffer (pH 6.0), a 10 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.0 and 7.4) or a 10 mM
   Tris buffer (pH 7.5), there was a significant decrease (e.g., greater than 90%) in the
30 SCP concentration.       However, as shown in FIG. 1B, the addition of 0.025%
   TweenTM80 to the SCP succinate, SCP phosphate and SCP Tris formulations, prior
   to vortexing for two days, completely inhibited the SCP loss which was observed in
   FIG. 1A.
           A 13vPnC immunogenic composition of the invention may also be formulated
35 with or without an adjuvant, such as aluminum phosphate (AIPO 4 ).            Thus, in a
   separate series of experiments (Example 4), 13vPnC immunogenic compositions
                                             -14-

   were formulated in 5 mM succinate buffer (pH 5.8), 0.85% NaCl and AIPO 4 (0.25 mg
   aluminum/ml), without the addition of a surfactant (e.g., no TweenTM80 was included
   in the formulation).
            In these experiments, the 13vPnC immunogenic composition (formulated in
 5 the presence of AIPO 4) were filled in various siliconized and non-siliconized container
   means (e.g., see Table 3) and subjected to simulated shipping and handling
   conditions via agitation at 2-81C. It was observed in these experiments (Example 4),
   that the container means with higher silicone content exhibited a higher degree of
   13vPnC particulate formation and a higher percent of 13vPnC antigenicity loss. An
10 FTIR analysis of the particulates indicated that the particulates consisted of protein
   and silicone (data not shown) and that about 85% of the 13vPnC is bound to the
   AIPO 4 , wherein the remaining 15% was free (not bound to AIPO 4 ) 13vPnC in
   solution.
            In another experiment      comparing     13vPnC     immunogenic compositions
15 formulated with and without AIPO 4 , which were then filled in identical syringes, it was
   observed that the 13vPnC formulated without AIP0 4 sustained greater antigenicity
   losses than 13vPnC with AIPO 4 in the syringes tested (e.g., see FIG. 6 and FIG. 7).
            Thus, the invention as set forth herein, is directed to novel formulations which
   stabilize and inhibit aggregation or precipitation of immunogenic compositions such
20 as polysaccharide-protein conjugates (e.g., a 13vPnC) and protein immunogens
   (e.g., a streptococcal C5a peptidase, a N. meningitidis ORF 2086 protein), against
   the various factors which influence the stability of immunogenic compositions (e.g.,
   shear forces, shipping agitation, silicone oil interactions, adsorption, manufacturing
   processes, temperature, humidity, length of time between manufacture and usage,
25 etc.).
            In certain embodiments, the invention is directed to a formulation which
   stabilizes a polysaccharide-protein conjugate, the formulation comprising a pH
   buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, a
   surfactant    and one     or more     polysaccharide-protein     conjugates.      In other
30 embodiments, the polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation is comprised in a
   container means. In another embodiment, the invention is directed to a formulation
   which stabilizes a streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP) composition, the formulation
   comprising a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5
   to about 6.5, a surfactant and a streptococcal C5a peptidase.                   In certain
35 embodiments, the SCP formulation is comprised in a container means. In another
   embodiment, the invention is directed to a formulation which stabilizes a N.
                                              - 15-

   meningitidis 2086 protein composition, the formulation comprising a pH buffered
   saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, a surfactant
   and a N. meningitidis 2086 protein.        In certain embodiments, the meningococcal
   2086 formulation is comprised in a container means.
 5         In certain other embodiments, the invention is directed to a formulation which
   inhibits silicone    induced   precipitation of a      polysaccharide-protein  conjugate
   comprised in a siliconized container means, the formulation comprising a pH buffered
   saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, an aluminum
   salt and one or more polysaccharide-protein conjugates. In another embodiment, the
10 invention is directed to a formulation which inhibits silicone induced precipitation of a
   streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP) composition comprised in a siliconized container
   means, the formulation comprising a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer
   has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 6.5, an aluminum salt and a streptococcal C5a
   peptidase. In certain other embodiments, the invention is directed to a formulation
15 which inhibits silicone induced precipitation of a N. meniOgitidis 2086 protein
   composition comprised in a siliconized container means, the formulation comprising
   a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5,
   an aluminum salt and a N. meningitidis 2086 protein.
           In yet other embodiments, the invention is directed to a formulation that
20 optimizes antigen stability and binding percentage to an aluminum salt adjuvant (e.g.,
   AlPO4 ) of a N. meningitidis 2086 protein, the formulation comprising a pH buffered
   saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, a surfactant,
   an aluminum salt, and a N. meningitidis 2086 protein. In certain embodiments, the
   formulation is in a container means.
25         As defined hereinafter, the terms "precipitation", "precipitate" "particulate
   formation", 'clouding" and 'aggregation" may be used interchangeably and are meant
   to refer to any physical interaction or chemical reaction which results in the
   "aggregation" of a polysaccharide-protein conjugate or a protein (or polypeptide)
   immunogen. The process of aggregation (e.g., protein aggregation) is well known
30 (but not well understood) and described in the art, and is often influenced by
   numerous physicochemical stresses, including heat, pressure, pH, agitation, shear
   forces, freeze-thawing, dehydration, heavy metals, phenolic compounds, silicon oil,
   denaturants and the like.
           As    defined     hereinafter,    a    "polysaccharide-protein   conjugate",    a
35 "pneumococcal conjugate", a "7-valent pneumococcal conjugate (7vPnC)", a "13
   valent pneumococcal conjugate (13vPnC)", a "streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP)
   immunogenic composition" and a "N. meningitidis 2086 protein immunogenic
                                               -16-

   composition" of the invention includes liquid formulations, frozen liquid formulations
   and solid (e.g., freeze-dried or lyophilized) formulations.
   A.      SURFACTANTS
 5         As set forth above, the invention is directed to formulations which stabilize
   and inhibit aggregation of immunogenic compositions against the various factors
   which influence the stability of immunogenic compositions (e.g., shear forces,
   shipping agitation, silicone oil interactions, adsorption, manufacturing processes,
   temperature, humidity, length of time between manufacture and usage, etc.).              In
10 certain embodiments, the invention is directed to formulations comprising a
   surfactant.
           A surfactant (or a surface-active agent) is generally defined as (a) a molecule
   or compound comprising a hydrophilic group or moiety and a lipophilic (hydrophobic)
   group or moiety and/or (b) a molecule, substance or compound that lowers or
15 reduces surface tension of a solution. As defined herein, a "surfactant" of the present
   invention is any molecule or compound that lowers the surface tension of an
   immunogenic composition formulation.
           A surfactant used in a formulation of the present invention comprises any
   surfactant or any combination of surfactants which stabilizes and inhibits aggregation
20 of an immunogenic composition described herein. Thus, a surfactant of the invention
   includes, but is not limited to, polysorbate 20 (TweenT'20), polysorbate 40
   (TweentM40), polysorbate 60 (Tween"60), polysorbate 65 (TweenM65), polysorbate
   80 (Tween"M80), polysorbate 85 (TweenT85), TritonTM N-101, TritonTM X-100,
   oxtoxynol 40, nonoxynol-9, triethanolamine, triethanolamine polypeptide cleate,
25 polyoxyethylene-660 hydroxystearate (PEG-15, Solutol H15), polyoxyethylene-35
   ricinoleate   (Cremophor       ELM),    soy     lecithin,   poloxamer,    hexadecylamine,
   octadecylamine,       octadecyl     amino      acid     esters,   lysolecithin,  dimethyl
   dioctadecylammonium         bromide,    methoxyhexadecylgylcerol,       pluronic   polyols,
   polyamines (e.g., pyran, dextransulfate, poly IC, carbopol), peptides (e.g., muramyl
30 peptide and dipeptide, dimethylglycine, tuftsin), oil emulsions, mineral gels (e.g.,
   aluminum phosphate) and immune stimulating complexes (ISCOMS).
           A person of skill in the art may readily determine a suitable surfactant or
   surfactant combination by measuring the surface tension of a particular immunogenic
   composition formulation in the presence and absence of the surfactant(s).
35 Alternatively, a surfactant is evaluated qualitatively (e.g., visual inspection of
   particulate formation) or quantitatively (e.g., light scattering, sedimentation velocity
                                              - 17-

   centrifugation, optical density, antigenicity) for its ability to reduce, inhibit or prevent
   aggregation of an immunogenic composition.
   B.      CONTAINER MEANS
 5          In certain embodiments, the invention is directed to formulations of
   immunogenic compositions comprised in a container means. As defined herein, a
   "container means" of the present invention includes any composition of matter which
   is used to "contain", "hold", "mix", "blend", "dispense", "inject", "transfer", "nebulize",
   etc. an immunogenic composition during research, processing, development,
10 formulation, manufacture, storage and/or administration.          For example, a container
   means of the present invention includes, but is not limited to, general laboratory
   glassware, flasks, beakers, graduated cylinders, fermentors, bioreactors, tubings,
   pipes, bags, jars, vials, vial closures (e.g., a rubber stopper, a screw on cap),
   ampoules, syringes, syringe stoppers, syringe plungers, rubber closures, plastic
15 closures, glass closures, and the like. A container means of the present invention is
   not limited by material of manufacture, and includes materials such as glass, metals
   (e.g., steel, stainless steel, aluminum, etc.) and polymers (e.g., thermoplastics,
   elastomers, thermoplastic-elastomers).
           The skilled artisan will appreciate that the container means set forth above
20 are by no means an exhaustive list, but merely serve as guidance to the artisan with
   respect to the variety of container means which are used to contain, hold, mix, blend,
   dispense, inject, transfer, nebulize, etc. an immunogen or immunogenic composition
   during research, processing, development, formulation, manufacture, storage and/or
   administration of the composition. Additional container means contemplated for use
25 in the present invention may be found in published catalogues from laboratory
   equipment vendors and manufacturers such as United States Plastic Corp. (Lima,
   OH), VWR"1 (West Chester, PA), BD Biosciences (Franklin Lakes, NJ), Fisher
   Scientific International Inc. (Hampton, NH) and Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO).
           Thus, the novel formulations of the present invention are particularly
30 advantageous in that they stabilize and inhibit precipitation of immunogenic
   formulations comprised in a container means throughout the various stages of
   research, processing, development, formulation, manufacture, storage and/or
   administration of the composition. The novel formulations of the invention not only
   stabilize immunogenic compositions          against physical/thermal stresses (e.g.,
35 temperature, humidity, shear forces, etc.), they also enhance stability and inhibit
   precipitation of immunogenic compositions against negative factors or influences
                                             - 18  -

   such as incompatibility of the immunogenic composition with the container/closure
   system (e.g., a siliconized container means).
            Thus, the novel formulations of the present invention are particularly useful in
   stabilizing the immunogen (i.e., a polysaccharide-protein conjugate, a protein or
 5 polypeptide antigen) against the silicon oil induced precipitation and precipitation
   described above. For example, co-pending U.S. Application No. 60/795,098, filed
   April 26, 2006, specifically incorporated herein by reference, describes the
   aggregation of immunogenic compositions in the presence silicon oil found on
   container means such syringes, glass vials, rubbers stoppers and the like, wherein
10 the addition of a surfactant to the container means prevented the silicon oil induced
   aggregation of these immunogenic compositions.
   C.       ADJUVANTS AND PHARMACEUTICAL CARRIERs/ExcIPIENTS
            In certain embodiments, the immunogenic compositions of the invention are
15 further formulated with an adjuvant. An adjuvant is a substance that enhances the
   immune response when administered together with an immunogen or antigen. A
   number of cytokines or lymphokines have been shown to have immune modulating
   activity, and thus may be used as adjuvants, including, but not limited to, the
   interleukins 1-a, 1-0, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,723,127),
20 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 (and its mutant forms), the interferons-a, @ and y,
   granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GMCSF, see, e.g., U.S. Patent
   No. 5,078,996 and ATCC Accession Number 39900), macrophage colony stimulating
   factor (MCSF), granulocyte colony stimulating factor (GCSF), and the tumor necrosis
   factors a and      3 (TNF).    Still other adjuvants useful in this invention include
25 chemokines, including without limitation, MCP-1, MIP-1a, MIP-1,      and RANTES.
            In certain embodiments, an adjuvant used to enhance an immune response
   of an immunogenic composition formulation includes, without limitation, MPLT       (3-0
   deacylated monophosphoryl lipid A; Corixa, Hamilton, MIT), which is described in
   U.S. Patent No. 4,912,094, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Also suitable
30 for use as adjuvants are synthetic lipid A analogs or aminoalkyl glucosamine
   phosphate compounds (AGP), or derivatives or analogs thereof, which are available
   from Corixa (Hamilton, MT), and which are described in United States Patent No.
   6,113,918, which is hereby incorporated by reference. One such AGP is 2-[(R)-3
   Tetradecanoyloxytetradecanoylaminoj         ethyl  2-Deoxy-4-0-phosphono-3-O-[(R)-3
35 tetradecanoyoxytetradecanoyl]-2-[(R)-3-tetradecanoyloxytetradecanoy-aminoj-b-D
   glucopyranoside, which is also known as 529 (formerly known as RC529). This 529
   adjuvant is formulated as an aqueous form or as a stable emulsion (RC529-SE).
                                              - 19-

           Still other adjuvants include mineral oil and water emulsions, aluminum salts
   (alum), such as aluminum hydroxide, aluminum phosphate, aluminum sulfate etc.,
   Amphigen, Avridine, L121/squalene, D-lactide-polylactide/glycoside, pluronic polyols,
   muramyl dipeptide,       killed Bordetella, saponins, such as Stimulon TM QS-21
 5 (Antigenics, Framingham, MA.), described in U.S. Patent No. 5,057,540, which is
   hereby incorporated by reference, and particles generated therefrom such as
   ISCOMS (immunostimulating complexes), ISCOMATRIX (CSL Limited, Parkville,
   Australia), described in U.S. Patent No. 5,254,339, Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
   bacterial lipopolysaccharides, synthetic polynucleotides such as oligonucleotides
10 containing a CpG motif (U.S. Patent No. 6,207,646, which is hereby incorporated by
   reference), IC-31 (Intercell AG, Vienna, Austria), described in European Patent Nos.
   1,296,713 and 1,326,634, a pertussis toxin (PT), or an E. coll heat-labile toxin (LT),
   particularly LT-K63, LT-R72, PT-K9/G129; see, e.g., International Patent Publication
   Nos. WO 93/13302 and WO 92/19265, incorporated herein by reference,
15         Also useful as adjuvants (and carrier proteins) are cholera toxins and mutants
   thereof, including those described in published International Patent Application
   number WO 00/18434 (wherein the glutamic acid at amino acid position 29 is
   replaced by another amino acid (other than aspartic acid), preferably a histidine).
   Similar CT toxins or mutants are described in published International Patent
20 Application number WO 02/098368 (wherein the isoleucine at amino acid position 16
   is replaced by another amino acid, either alone or in combination with the
   replacement of the serine at amino acid position 68 by another amino acid; and/or
   wherein the valine at amino acid position 72 is replaced by another amino acid).
   Other CT toxins are described in published International Patent Application number
25 WO 02/098369 (wherein the arginine at amino acid position 25 is replaced by
   another amino acid; and/or an amino acid is inserted at amino acid position 49;
   and/or two amino acids are inserted at amino acid positions 35 and 36).
           In certain embodiments, the immunogenic composition formulations comprise
   a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, excipient or a pharmaceutically acceptable
30 carrier, In one embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable diluent is sterile water,
   water for injection, sterile isotonic saline or a biological buffer. The polysaccharide
   protein conjugates and/or protein immunogens are mixed with such diluents or
   carriers in a conventional manner. As used herein the language "pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier" is intended to include any and all solvents, dispersion media,
35 coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying
   agents, and the like, compatible with administration to humans or other vertebrate
                                               -20-

   hosts. The appropriate carrier is evident to those skilled in the art and will depend in
   large part upon the route of administration.
           For example, excipients that may be present in the immunogenic composition
   formulation are preservatives, chemical stabilizers and suspending or dispersing
 5 agents. Typically, stabilizers, preservatives and the like are optimized to determine
   the best formulation for efficacy in the targeted recipient (e.g., a human subject).
   Examples of preservatives include chlorobutanol, potassium sorbate, sorbic acid,
   sulfur dioxide, propyl gallate, the parabens, ethyl vanillin, glycerin, phenol, and
   parachlorophenol.       Examples of stabilizing ingredients include casamino acids,
10 sucrose, gelatin, phenol red, N-Z amine, monopotassium diphosphate, lactose,
   lactalbumin hydrolysate, and dried milk.
           In certain embodiments, an immunogenic composition formulation is prepared
   for administration to human subjects in the form of, for example, liquids, powders,
   aerosols, tablets, capsules, enteric-coated tablets or capsules, or suppositories.
15 Thus, the immunogenic composition formulations may also include, but are not
   limited to, suspensions, solutions, emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, pastes, and
   implantable sustained-release or biodegradable formulations.
           The immunogenic compositions of the present invention, are not limited by
   the selection of the conventional, physiologically acceptable carriers, diluents and
20 excipients such as solvents, buffers, adjuvants, or other ingredients useful in
   pharmaceutical preparations of the types described above. The preparation of these
   pharmaceutically acceptable compositions, from the above-described components,
   having appropriate pH isotonicity, stability and other conventional characteristics is
   within the skill of the art.
25
   D.      IMMUNOGENS
           In certain embodiments, a polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation of the
   invention comprises one or more pneumococcal polysaccharides.                   In other
   embodiments, a polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation of the invention
30 comprises one or more streptococcal polysaccharides. In yet other embodiments, a
   polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation of the invention comprises one or more
   meningococcal polysaccharides.       In still other embodiments, a polysaccharide
   protein conjugate formulation of the invention comprises a combination of one or
   more pneumococcal polysaccharides, one or more pneumococcal polypeptides, one
35 or more streptococcal polysaccharides, one or more streptococcal polypeptides, one
   or more meningococcal polysaccharides, and/or one or more meningococcal
   polypeptides.
                                             -21-

          As defined hereinafter, the term polysaccharidee" is meant to include any
   antigenic saccharide element (or antigenic unit) commonly used in the immunologic
   and bacterial vaccine arts, including, but not limited to, a "saccharide", an
   "oligosaccharide", a polysaccharidee", a "liposaccharide", a "lipo-oligosaccharide
 5 (LOS)", a "lipopolysaccharide (LPS)", a "glycosylate", a "glycoconjugate" and the like.
           In one particular embodiment of the invention, the one or more pneumococcal
   polysaccharides are a S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 6B polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 9V polysaccharide, a S.
   pneumoniae      serotype   14 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 18C
10 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 23F polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 1 polysaccharide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 3 polysaccharide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 5 polysaccharide,
   a S, pneumoniae serotype 6A polysaccharide, a S, pneumoniae serotype 7F
   polysaccharide and a S. pneumoniae serotype 19A polysaccharide.
15         In certain embodiments, a polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation is a
   7-valent pneumococcal conjugate (7vPnC) formulation comprising a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRMIVy polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 68 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19 r polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 9V polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19 7 polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
20 serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 18C polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
   serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19y polypeptide and a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide.
           In certain other embodiments, a polysaccharide-protein conjugate formulation
25 is a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate (13vPnC) formulation comprising a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 6B polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 1 r polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 9V polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19r polypeptide, a S.
30 pneumoniae serotype 18C polysaccharide conjugated to a CRMer polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19 7 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 1 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 3 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
35 pneumoniae serotype 5 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19r polypeptide, a S.
   pneumoniae serotype 6A polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 1 r polypeptide, a S.
                                           - 22 -

   pneumoniae serotype 7F polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide and a
   S. pneumoniae serotype 19A polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM11y polypeptide.
             Polysaccharides are prepared by standard techniques known to those skilled
   in the art.     For example, the capsular polysaccharides set forth in the present
 5 invention are prepared from serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F
   and 23F of Streptococcus pneumoniae, wherein each serotype is grown in a soy
   based medium and the individual polysaccharides are then purified through
   centrifugation, precipitation, ultra-filtration, and column chromatography. Similarly,
   streptococcal       polysaccharides     (e.g.,    one or    more     polysaccharides    (or
10 oligosaccharides) from a -hemolytic Streptococcus such group A Streptococcus,
   group B Streptococcus, group C Streptococcus and group G Streptococcus) and
   meningococcal saccharides (e.g., an N. meningitidis lipo-oligosaccharide (LOS) or
   lipo-polysaccharide (LPS)) are prepared from            clinically relevant serotypes or
   serogroups, using general techniques and methods known to one of skill in the art.
15 The purified polysaccharides are then chemically activated (e.g., via reductive
   amination) to make the saccharides capable of reacting with the carrier protein.
   Once activated, each capsular polysaccharide is separately conjugated to a carrier
   protein (e.g., CRMO7 ) to form a glycoconjugate (or alternatively, each capsular
   polysaccharide is conjugated to the same carrier protein) and formulated into a single
20 dosage formulation.
             The chemical activation of the polysaccharides and subsequent conjugation
   to the carrier protein (i.e., a polysaccharide-protein conjugate) are achieved by
   conventional means. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,673,574 and 4,902,506.
             Carrier proteins are preferably proteins that are non-toxic and non
25 reactogenic and obtainable in sufficient amount and purity. Carder proteins should
   be amenable to standard conjugation procedures. In a particular embodiment of the
   present invention, CRM1 97 is used as the carrier protein.
             CRM 19 r (Wyeth, Sanford, NC) is a non-toxic variant (i.e., toxoid) of diphtheria
   toxin isolated from cultures of Corynebacterium diphtheria strain C7 (5197) grown in
30 casamino acids and yeast extract-based medium. CRMr 9, is purified through ultra
   filtration, ammonium       sulfate precipitation, and ion-exchange chromatography.
   Alternatively, CRMir is prepared recombinantly in accordance with U.S. Patent No.
   5,614,382, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Other diphtheria toxoids are
   also suitable for use as carrier proteins.
35           In other embodiments, a carrier protein of the invention is an enzymatically
   inactive streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP) (e.g., one or more of the SCP variants
                                                -23-

   described in U.S. Patent 6,951,653, U.S. Patent 6,355,255 and U.S. Patent
   6,270,775).
           Other suitable carrier proteins include inactivated bacterial toxins such as
   tetanus toxoid, pertussis toxoid, cholera toxoid (e.g., CT E29H, described in
 5 International Patent Application W02004/083251), E coli LT, E. coli ST, and
   exotoxin A from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bacterial outer membrane proteins such
   as outer membrane complex c (OMPC), porins, transferrin binding proteins,
   pneumolysin, pneumococcal surface protein A (PspA), pneumococcal adhesin
   protein (PsaA), or Haemophilus influenzae protein D, can also be used. Other
10 proteins, such as ovalbumin, keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), bovine serum
   albumin (BSA) or purified protein derivative of tuberculin (PPD) can also be used as
   carrier proteins.
           After conjugation of the capsular polysaccharide to the carrier protein, the
   polysaccharide-protein conjugates are purified (enriched with respect to the amount
15 of polysaccharide-protein conjugate) by a variety of techniques. These techniques
   include     concentration/diafiltration    operations,   precipitation/elution, column
   chromatography, and depth filtration.
           After the individual glycoconjugates are purified, they are compounded to
   formulate the immunogenic composition of the present invention. Formulation of the
20 polysaccharide-protein conjugates of the present invention can be accomplished
   using art-recognized methods.           For instance, the 13 individual pneumococcal
   conjugates can be formulated with a physiologically acceptable vehicle to prepare the
   composition.    Examples of such vehicles include, but are not limited to, water,
   buffered saline, polyols (e.g., glycerol, propylene glycol, liquid polyethylene glycol)
25 and dextrose solutions.
           In other embodiments, the invention is directed to formulations which stabilize
   a streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP) immunogenic composition, wherein the
   formulations comprise a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of
   about 3.5 to about 6.5, a surfactant and a streptococcal C5a peptidase. The C5a
30 peptidase is a highly conserved serine protease and is expressed across all p.
   hemolytic Streptococci (e.g., streptococcal Groups A, B, C and G). For example, the
   nucleotide sequence encoding a Group B streptococci (GBS) C5a peptidase is 98%
   identical to the nucleotide sequence encoding a Group A streptococci (GAS) C5a
   peptidase. Thus, in certain embodiments of the invention, an immunogenic
35 composition against infection caused by 3-hemolytic Streptococci comprises a C5a
   peptidase immunogen (or antigen).
                                               - 24 -

            In one particular embodiment, a C5a peptidase of the invention is an
   enzymatically inactive streptococcal C5a peptidase (e.g., one or more of the SCP
   variants described in U.S. Patent 6,951,653, U.S. Patent 6,355,255 and U.S. Patent
   6,270,775, each specifically incorporated herein by reference). In another specific
 5 embodiment, the SCP used in the novel immunogenic composition formulations of
   the invention is cloned from a Group B streptococci. In another embodiment, the
   Group B streptococci SCP sequence has been genetically mutated to render it
   proteolytically inactive (e.g., see U.S. Patents 6,951,653; 6,355,255 and 6,270,775)
   and is expressed as a recombinant protein in E. coli.
10          In another embodiment, the invention is directed to formulations which
   stabilize a N. meningitidis 2086 protein immunogenic composition, wherein the
   formulations comprise a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of
   about 3.5 to about 7.5, a surfactant and a N. meningitidis 2086 protein. The N.
   meningitidis 2086 proteins are encoded by a nucleic acid sequence open reading
15 frame (ORF) identified as "ORF 2086" (e.g., see International Publication No. WO
   03/063766 A2 (International        Application   No.   PCT/USO2/32369),    International
   Publication No. WO 04/094596 A2 (international Application No. PCT/US04/011901),
   and International Publication No. WO 04/065603 A2 (International Application No.
   PCT/USO4/000800), each specifically incorporated herein by reference). In a further
20 embodiment, the invention is directed to formulations that optimize antigen stability
   and binding percentage to an aluminum salt adjuvant (e.g., AIPO 4) of a N.
   meningitidis 2086 protein, wherein the formulations comprise a pH buffered saline
   solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, a surfactant, an
   aluminum salt, and a N. meningitidis 2086 protein.
25         All patents and publications cited herein are hereby incorporated by
   reference.
   E.       EXAMPLES
           The following examples are carried out using standard techniques, which are
30 well known and routine to those of skill in the art, except where otherwise described
   in detail. The following examples are presented for illustrative purpose, and should
   not be construed in any way as limiting the scope of this invention.
                                          EXAMPLE I
             IMMUNOGENic FORMULATIONS COMPRISING 0.001%-0.05% TWEEN"80
35                STABILIZE AND PREVENT AGGREGATION OF THE IMMUNOGEN
           The polysaccharide-protein conjugate used in this example was a thirteen
   valent pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate (13vPnC) comprising capsular
                                             -25-

   polysaccharides from S. pneumoniae serotypes 4, 6B, 9V, 18C, 19F, 14, 23F, 1, 3, 5,
   6A, 7F and 19A, each of which were conjugated to CRM 19r.                 The capsular
   polysaccharides were prepared by standard techniques known to those skilled in the
   art. Briefly, each pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype was grown in a soy-based
 5 medium, the individual polysaccharides were then purified through centrifugation,
   precipitation,    ultra-filtration,  and  column    chromatography.       The   purified
   polysaccharides were chemically activated for conjugation and each polysaccharide
   was separately conjugated to a CRM 1 r carrier protein to form a glycoconjugate and
   formulated into a single dosage formulation.
10          The chemical activation of the polysaccharides and subsequent conjugation
   to the carrier protein were achieved by conventional means (e.g., see U.S. Patent
   No. 4,673,574 and 4,902,506). CRM 197 (Wyeth, Sanford, NC) is a non-toxic variant
   (i.e., toxoid) of diphtheria toxin isolated from cultures of Corynebacterium diphtheria
   strain C7 ([3197) grown in casamino acids and yeast extract-based medium. CRM 197
15 is purified through ultra-filtration, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and ion-exchange
   chromatography.
            The antigenicity experiments described below were performed by mixing the
    13vPnC samples with one of thirteen antisera (Ab) specific to the each of the
   polysaccharide serotypes and detecting the immune complexes via light scattering
20 measurements on an Array@ 360 system (Beckman Coulter, Inc.; Fullerton, CA).
   The detected light scattering measurements for each of the thirteen serotypes were
   then compared to a standard curve and reported as antigenicity (jag/mL).
            Syringes (BD Hypak SCFm) and syringe stoppers (BD Hypak SCFT') were
   purchased from BD Biosciences (Franklin Lakes, NJ). Clear borosilicate vials (VWR
25 TraceClean'T,     40 mL) with Teflon@-lined closures were purchased from VWRTM
   (West Chester, PA). Polysorbate 80 (Tween 80) was purchased from J.T. Baker
   (Mallinckrodt Baker, Inc.; Phillipsburg, NJ). Buffered saline was succinate (5 mM)
   and NaCl (0.85%) at pH 5.8.
            The 13vPnC was formulated (500 mL total volume) at different surfactant
30 concentrations (Tween TM 80; 0.001%, 0.005%, 0.01% and 0.05%, weight/volume) as
   follows: 0.85% saline (150 mM NaCI) was added to a one liter Pyrex glass beaker,
   followed by 50 mM succinate buffer (final concentration 5 mM) and the 13vPnC. The
   final concentration of each serotype conjugate was 4.4 gg/mL (except for serotype
   68, which was 8.8 pg/mL).           The 13vPnC formulation was then divided into five
35 separate glass vials (50 mL per vial), wherein either 0.0%, 0.001%, 0.005%, 0.01%
   or 0.05% TweenTh80 (w/v) was added to one of the five vials and each solution
                                              -26-

   filtered through a 0.22 pm Durapore@ filter (Millipore; Billerica, MA). Subsequently,
   0.65 mL of each solution was filled in a separate 3 mL BD HYPAKT M SCFT' glass
   syringe with w4432 grey stoppers (BD Medical Pharmaceutical Systems; Franklin
   Lakes, NJ), and the syringes placed on a horizontal orbital shaker (60 cpm) for 100
 5 hours at 20 C to 80C.
            It was observed by visual inspection (data not shown), that the13vPnC
   formulated in the absence of TweenTM8O (i.e., 0.0%), would begin precipitating out of
   solution within ten minutes at 2-81C upon gentle agitation via a horizontal orbital
   shaker. In contrast, the 13vPnC, formulated in 0.001%, 0.005%, 0.01% or 0.05%
10 Tween-80 and gently agitated at 2-8*C, was stable for up to twenty-five days with
   no visible signs of precipitation (data not shown). Thus, this data demonstrated that
   the addition of a surfactant (e.g., TweenTM80) to an immunogenic composition
   formulation enhances the stability of the immunogenic composition.
            A second stability experiment of the 13vPnC further confirmed that the
15 addition of surfactant to the formulation significantly enhanced the stability of the
    13vPnC.     In this experiment, the 13vPnC was formulated with and without 0,05%
   TweenTM80. The 13vPnC formulated without TweenM80 (i.e., 0.0%) was prepared
   as follows: 0.85% saline (150 mM NaCI) was added to a one liter Pyrex glass
   beaker, followed by 50 mM succinate buffer (final concentration 5 mM) and the
20 13vPnC, at a total volume of 500 mL.             The 13vPnC formulation with 0.05%
   TweenT80 was prepared as follows: 0.85% saline (150 mM NaCI) was added to a
   one liter Pyrex@ glass beaker, followed by 50 mM succinate buffer (final
   concentration 5 mM), 0.05% TweenT80 and the 13vPnC, at a total volume of 500
   mL. The final concentration of each serotype conjugate in the 500 mL formulations
25 was 4.4 gg/mL (except for serotype 6B, which was 8.8 pg/mL).             The 500 mL
   formulations were homogenized via a rotor/stator homogenizer at 6,000 rpm (2-8 0C)
   for 120 minutes. The homogenization process created an air-liquid interface (with air
   bubbles).
            The stability of the 13vPnC formulation with (Table 1) and without (Table 1)
30 0.05% Tween 80 was assessed over a two hour time period as follows: Samples
   (20-30 mL) were removed at zero, thirty and one hundred-twenty minutes from the
   0.0% and 0.05% TweenTM80 formulations, the samples were diluted 1:2 in protein
   diluent (Array@ 360 protein diluent (Cat. No. 663630); Beckman Coulter Inc.;
   Fullerton, CA) and the antigenicity of all thirteen serotypes of the 13vPnC were
35 assayed (see, Table 1) on an Array@ 360 system.
                                             - 27 -

                As is shown in Table 1, there was a significant decrease in antigenicity of the
      thirteen serotype polysaccharides (formulated without TweenT'80) within the two
      hour assay. Quite significantly however, the 13vPnC formulation comprising 0.05%
      Tween 1 "80      (Table 1), demonstrated robust stability with no reduction in the
 5    antigenicity throughout the two hour antigenicity assay.
                                                  TABLE I
              STABILITY ASSAY OF 13VPNC FORMULATED WiTH AND WITHOUT TWEENTh80
            13vPnC without Tween80                             13vPnC with 0.05% Tween80
              Antigenicity Antigenicity Antigenicity              Antigenicity Antigenicity Antigenicity
   Serotype 0 minutes       30 minutes 120 minutes       Serotype  0 minutes       30 min     120 min
       1       4.8 ptg/mi    4.2 pg/ml   2.4 pg/ml           1     5.1 pg/ml     5.0 pg/m    5.2 jig/mI
       3       4.8 jg/mi     4.1 pg/ml   1.7 pg/ml           3     5.0 jig/ml    5.0 g/m| 5.2 pg/mi
      4        5.8 pg/ml     5.0 pg/ml   3.1 gg/ml           4     6.1 Ig/ml 6.1 pg/mi       6.2 ig/mi
       5       3.4 pg/ml     3.0 pg/ml   2.0 gg/ml           5     3.6 pg/ml 3.6 g/m|        3.7 g/ml
      6A       4.9 jig/mI    3.8 pg/ml   1.3 pg/ml          6A     5A pg/ml 5.4 pg/m|        5.6 pg/mI
      6B      10.0 pg/m      5.6 pg/mI   1.4 ltg/ml         6B     10.6 pg/ml 10.6 pg/ml    10.5 mg/ml
      7F       4.7 gig/m     3.4 jg/ml   1.0 pg/mI          7F     5.3 sg/ml 5.2 jg/m        5.3 sg/mi
      9V    | 5.6 g/ml | 4.7 pg/ml       2.6 pg/ml          9V     6.1 Ig/ml | 6.1 pg/mt | 6.2 pg/mlI
      14       7.6 pq/mI| 6.4 pig/ml     3.0 g/ml           14     8.2 a/ml 8.3 pg/m| 8.3 ig/mi
     18C       5.6   g/mi| 4.4    ,g/mIl 1.7   g/ml        18C     6.2 aIg/ml    6.1 pg/mi   6.2 jg/mi
     19A    |  6.4 pi/mi |4.5    pig/ml  1.9 pg/ml         19A     6.8 pg/ml     6.8 pg/m|   6.8 ig/mi
     19F    |  5.4 pI/mi     2.6 pig/ml  0.0 pg/ml         19F     6.1 Ag/ml   |6.2 g/mi     6.0 jig/mi
     23F       4.5 pg/ml     2.8 pg/ml   0.9   g/mI        23F     5.2 pg/ml     5.2 pg/mI   5.2 pg/mI
10              The 13vPnC/TweenTM 80 formulation was further tested for stability against
      high shear forces. In this experiment, a 100 mL 13vPnC composition (4.4 gg/mL
      serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 23F and 8.8          sg/mL serotype     6B,
      5 mM succinate buffer, 150 mM NaCl and 0.25 mg/mL AIPO4) was added to three
      250 mL glass bottles comprising either 0.0%, 0.01% or 0.05% Tweent m 80. The three
15    bottles were then vortexed for thirty minutes (2-8cC) on a vortexer (Vortex-Genie@ 2;
      Scientific Industries, Inc.; Bohemia, NY) and an air-liquid interface was created at the
      maximum speed setting. After thirty minutes 10-30 mL samples were taken from
      each bottle, diluted 1:2 in Array 360 protein diluent and the antigenicity of the
      thirteen serotypes assayed on an Array 360 system.
20              As seen in Table 2 below, the 13vPnC formulated without TweenT"80 (0.0%)
      had on average a 20% decrease in antigenicity after vortexing.                    The 13vPnC
      formulated with 0.01% TweenM80 had a decrease in antigenicity ranging from 2-10%
      (average 8%) and the 13vPnC formulated with 0.05% TweenTm80 had a decrease in
      antigenicity ranging from 0-8% (average 3%). Thus, the data presented in Table 2
                                                    -28-

   demonstrate that the 13vPnC formulated with either 0.01% or 0.05% TweenM80
   were significantly stabilized against shear forces, relative to the 13vPnC formulated
   in the absence of Tweent"80.
 5                                              TABLE 2
                   STABILIZING EFFECT OF TWEENT 480 AGAINST SHEAR FORCES
                 Antigenicity Antigenicity Antigenicity Antigenicity Antigenicity Antigenicity
                  0.0% two 0.0% tw80 0.01% tw80          0.01% twaC  0.05%tw80 0.05% tw80
       Serotype                 + vortex                   + vortex                + vortex
            1     4.7 ig/mL 3.6 g/mL 4.8 tg/mL            4.3 in/mt  4.7 jig/mL 4.6 ug/mL
            3     4.6 ig/mL 3.4 jig/mL 4.7 jig/mL         4.2 jig/mL 4.7 Ig/mL 4.4 ag/mL
           4      5.5 g/mL 4.4 gi/rmL 5.9 ig/mL           5.4 itg/mL 5.9 ig/mL 5.6 i /mL
            5     3.2 /mL 2.5 ji/mL 3.5 gig/mL            3.2 jt9/mL 3.3 u /mL 3,3 ug/mL
          6A      4.3 lig/mL 3.6 itg/mL 4.6 ji/mL         4.5 jtg/mL 4.7 g/mL 4.8 i /mL
          6B      9.7 jig/mL   7.7 ig/mL 10.2 jtg/mt      9.6 tg/mL  10.2 ag/mL 10.1 i /mL
          7F      4.6 ui/mL 3.5 ji/mL 5.4 jig/mL          5.0 tm/mL  5.4 ig/mL 5.3 ag/mL
          9V      5.3 jig/mL 4.1 ji/mL 5.7 ji/mL          5.1 ua/mL  5.6 g/mL 5.3 Ag/mL
           14     6.8 ua/mL 5,4 LLg/mL 7.3 jig/mL         6.7 Lig/mL 7.4 ig/mL 6.8 t g/mL
          18C     4.1 jig/mL 3.4 gg/mL 4.5 jig/mL         4.3 ji/mL  4.5 jig/mL 4.5 tg/mL
          19A     5.1 ji/mL 4.2 ji/mL 5.5 ji/mL           53 ig/mL   5.6 tg/mL 5.4 ig/mL
          19F     4.8 gg/mL 3.6 ig/ mL 52 pig/mL          4.9 Ag/mL  5.2 ug/mL 5.1 pg/mL
          23F     3.0 gg/mL 2.4 pg/mL 3.4 pg/mL           3.3 stg/mL 3.5 Ig/mL 3.4 pg/mL
                                               EXAMPLE 2
                      FORMULATIONS COMPRISING SURFACTANT STABILIZE AND
10                 PREVENT AGGREGATION OF STREPTOCOCCAL               C5A   PEPTIDASE
              The streptococcal G5a peptidase (SCP) used in this example was expressed
   and purified as follows. The SCP was expressed recombinantly in E. coli using an
   arabinose inducible system.            Standard fermentation protocols for E. coli using
   animal-free defined medium and subsequent cell lysis were followed. Recombinant
is SCP was purified from the soluble fraction of the cell lysate by saturation to 60%
   (approximately 3 M) ammonium sulfate while stirring for 12-24 hours. The saturated
   lysate was centrifuged, supernatant retained and loaded onto a phenyl Sepharose
   hydrophobic interaction column.             Bound material was then eluted with 1 M
   ammonium sulfate, 20mM Tris-CI, pH 7.5, concentrated, and diafiltered against PBS,
20 pH 7.4. The purified recombinant SCP (rSCP) was diluted to -10 mg/mL with PBS,
   pH 7.4 and passed through a Posidyne filter to remove endotoxin, followed by a final
   filtration (0.2 mM) for sterility and stored frozen (-250C).
              The purified SCP (55 gg/mL) was then formulated with 0.025% Tween'80 or
   without TweenT80 (0.0%) in the following buffers: 5 mM succinate buffer at pH 6.0,
25  10 mM phosphate buffer at pH 7.0, 10 mM phosphate buffer at 7.4 or 10 mM Tris
                                                  - 29  -

   buffer at pH 7.5 and filled in separate BD Hypak SCFM syringes. The syringes were
   then placed on an a horizontal orbital shaker at 2-8 0 C, shaken at 180 cpm for two
   days and the SCP protein concentration determined by the modified Lowry assay.
            As shown in FIG. 1, the stability of SCP was greatly enhanced when
 5 formulated with TweenTM80. For example, after two days on the orbital shaker, the
   SCP formulated without TweenT"80 (FIG. 1A) demonstrated a significant decrease
   (e.g., greater than 90%) in the SCP concentration each of the buffers tested.
   However, as shown in FIG. 1B, the addition of 0.025% TweenTM80 to the SCP buffer
   formulations, prior to being placed on the orbital shaker for two days, completely
10 inhibited the SCP loss which was observed in FIG. 1A.
            The storage stability of the SCP/Tween" 4 80 (0.025%) formulation was also
   assessed at 25*C and 37*C for eight weeks and six weeks, respectively (data not
   shown).     Briefly, the SCP (200 pg) was formulated in either succinate buffer or
   phosphate buffer as follows: succinate buffer (5 mM, pH 6.0) or phosphate buffer (15
15 mM,     pH 7.4), 0.9% NaCl         and 0.025% TweenTM80.             The stability of the
   SCP/TweenTM80 formulations were assayed by size-exclusion-HPLC, modified Lowry
   total protein assay and visual inspection for precipitation. It was observed in this
   study, that the SCP/TweenM80 formulations (in either buffer) were completely stable
   at 25 0 C and 37"C for the entire stability study (i.e., up to eight weeks and six weeks,
20 respectively).
                                           EXAMPLE 3
      THE INFLUENCE OF SILICONIZED CONTAINER MEANS ON THE STABILITY OF 13VPNC
            Previous experiments indicated (data not shown) that 13vPnC immunogenic
25 compositions precipitated and/or aggregated when filled in ready to use (single-dose)
   Becton Dickinson (BD) Hypak Type 1 borosilicate glass syringes treated with Dow
   Corning medical grade DC 360 silicone and capped with West 4432/50 latex free
   stoppers (chlorobutyl) and EZ tip cap West 7025/65 (Synthetic Isoprene Bromobutyl
   Blend; West Pharmaceutical, Lionville, PA). In these experiments, the 13vPnC was
30 formulated in 5 mM succinate buffer containing 0.85% NaC and 4.4 pig/ml of S.
   pneumoniae serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23F and 8.8
   pg/ml of S. pneumoniae serotype 6B, with and without 0.25mg/mL aluminum
   phosphate as an adjuvant,        It was observed that, in the absence of AIPO4 , the
    13vPnC particulates were readily observable, whereas, in the presence of AIPO 4, the
35  13vPnC particulates were significantly diminished and more difficult to detect.
                                              -30-

            In the present example, a series of container and closure components (i.e.,
   container means) were examined to identify what components were inducing or
   contributing to 13vPnC particulate formation. The container means tested comprised
   syringes, stoppers and vials and are listed below in Table 3. The BD and West
 5 stoppers listed in Table 3 were siliconized, using either the Huber or Jar process.
   The Huber process of siliconization is more controlled and yielded 30 to 60 pg/cm2 of
   silicone on the surface of the stopper, while the Jar process of siliconization resulted
   in 150 to 300 pg/cm2 of silicone on the surface of the stopper. Based on theoretical
   calculations, about 15% of the surface area of the stopper is exposed to the product
10 in the syringe, suggesting that for the Huber and Jar process between 4.5 to 9         g
   and 22.5 to 45 pg of silicone is extractable from the stoppers, respectively.
   Materials
           The silicone was Dow Corning 360 Medical Fluid 1000 centistokes (batch
   No. 0001846266). The 7vPnC was formulated in 5 mM succinate buffer containing
15 0.85% NaCl and 4.4 ig/ml of S. pneumoniae serotypes 4, 9, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F
   and 8.8 ig/ml of S. pneumoniae serotype 6B, with and without 0.25 mg/ml aluminum
   phosphate. The 13vPnC was formulated in 5 mM succinate buffer containing 0.85%
   NaCl and 4.4 pg/ml of S. pneumoniae serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A,
    19F and 23F and 8.8 pg/ml of S. pneumoniae serotype 6B, with and without 0.25
20 mg/ml aluminum phosphate.            Monovalent S. pneumoniae serotype 6B was
   formulated (5 mM succinate buffer containing 0.85% NaCl, without aluminum
   phosphate) at a concentration of 61 pg/ml to simulate the total saccharide
   concentration of the 13vPnC formulations.
   Methods
25         The 7vPnC and 13vPnC were formulated as described above, and 35 ml of a
   given formulation was added to a clear 250 ml Nalgene@ bottle. Into each Nalgene@
   bottle, the container means components listed in Table 3 were added.                The
   Nalgene@ bottles were then placed on a Labline Orbit Shaker and swirled
   overnight at 50 rpm. The results are summarized in Table 3.
30         Visual Apoearance. The Nalgene@ bottles containing each of the container
   means components were held up to a fluorescence light in the laboratory. A path of
   a beam of light (Tindel effect) passing through the samples allowed for the detection
   of particulates.
           Protein Assay.     The total protein and protein bound to aluminum was
35 determined     by measuring the total protein       concentration in the formulated
   immunogenic composition and the protein associated with the aluminum pellet,
                                             -31-

   respectively (an aliquot of the immunogenic composition was centrifuged and the
   pellet was re-suspended in saline).        Assays were performed using the Pierce
   Modified Lowry protein assay (catalog # 23240) with bovine serum albumin as a
   standard.
 5          RESULTS
            In the first series of experiments, the 13vPnC immunogenic compositions
   were formulated without AIPO 4 and exposed to a series of container means listed
   below in Table 3. It was clearly evident from the data (Table 3), that the container
   means components that were treated with silicone oil induced the formation of white
10 particles,   In contrast, no particulates were detected in the presence of the non
   siliconized Daikyo@ stoppers (Daikyo Seiko, Ltd., Japan) and Schott vials (Schott
   North America Inc.; Lebanon, PA).
                                             -32-

                                            TABLE 3
      EFFECT OF DIFFERENT CONTAINER MEANS COMPONENTS ON 13VPNC, FORMULATED
                                         WITHOUT ALPO4
                                                        Number of
   Container Means Components                        Container Means      Appearance
                                                    Components Added      (Visual Inspection)
   Control-13vPnC without AIPO4                            None           No Particulate
   8D Hypak BSCF 1-3 ml 4432/50 Grey SI WWD                  10           Particulates
   Stoppers
   8D Hypak BSCF 1-3 ml 4432/50 Grey Si Huber                10           Particulates
   Processed Stoppers
   West 890 Ready to Sterilize Stoppers                      10           Particulates
   BD Hypak BSCF 1-3 ml W4416/50 Grey Si 1000                10           Particulates
   WWD Stoppers
   Helvoet 6213 Stoppers                                     10           Particulates
   Daikyo Vial Stoppers (D777-1 B2-40 F451 plug              10           No Particulate
   stoppers)
   ED Hypak BSCF 1-3ml LLA EZGTC W7025/65                     4           Particulates
   Syringe Barrels
   Hypak NSCF 1-3 ml 4023/50 B2-40 Daikyo                    10           No Particulate
   Stoppers
   Syringe E-Z Grip Tip Cap W7025165 EZ IITC                 10           No Particulate
   2 ml, 13 mm Schott Type 1 glass vials                     4            No Particulate
   Silicone Oil (Dow Chemical Medical grade 360)      500 ltL (1.43%)     Particulates
   Schott TopPac Syringes                                     4           No Particulate
 5         The monovalent S. pneumoniae serotype 6B was chosen as a model for the
   13vPnC and was formulated at 61.6 pg/ml (without AIPO 4 ) to simulate the total
   saccharide concentration in the 13vPnC formulation.        Silicone (Dow Corning 360
   Medical Fluid) was added to aliquots of the formulated monovalent 6B, ranging from
   2 ppm to 100 ppm. The mixtures were placed on a Labline@ Orbit Shaker for 2
10 hours at 50 rpm. As indicated below in Table 4, fiber-like white particulates were
   observed at all silicone (Si) concentrations.
                                             -33-

                                              TABLE 4
          EFFECT OF SILICONE CONCENTRATION ON THE FORMATION OF PARTICULATES
                                                                    Appearance
                    Silicone Concentration                      (Visual Inspection)
          2 ppm (1 pl of Si to 500 mL Formulation)          Fiber-like white particulates
          5 ppm (2.5 ul of Si to 500 mL Formulation)        Fiber-like white particulates
          10 ppm (5 pl of Si to 500 mL Formulation)         Fiber-like white particulates
          15 ppm (7.5 pl of Si to 500 ML Formulation)       Fiber-like white particulates
          20 ppm (10 pl of Si to 500 mL Formulation)        Fiber-like white particulates
          100 ppm (2pl of Si to 20 mL Formulation)          Fiber-like white particulates
 5          The amount of silicone in 13vPnC formulations (without AIPO 4) was also
   examined.     The silicone concentration was determined by DC Plasma Emission
   Spectroscopy (data not shown). In this method, the content of 25 syringes were
   pooled and extracted with two 50 ml portions of cyclohexane/isopropyl alcohol
   mixture. The extracts were combined and evaporated. The residual was solubilized
10 and tested as per existing methods for silicone determination on rubber stoppers.
   The results indicated that between 15.8 to 19.0 pg of silicone is extractable from
   each syringe. This amount corresponds to 2.7% to 3.3% of silicone.
            In a separate series of experiments, in which the 13vPnC was formulated in
   the presence of AIPO 4 and subjected to the same container means set forth in Table
15 3, it was elucidated that the silicone and the "free" protein (13vPnC) in solution was
   responsible for the formation of the particulates (data not shown). FTIR analysis of
   the particulates also indicated that the particulate consisted of protein and silicone
   (data not shown). It was determined in these experiments, that about 85% of the
   13vPnC is bound to the AIPO 4, wherein the remaining 15% was free (not bound to
20 AIPO 4 ) 13vPnC in solution. In contrast, it was observed that 7vPnC formulated with
   AIPO 4 was 100% bound to the A1P0       4 (data  not shown).
            To elucidate the effect of free protein-polysaccharide on the formation of
   particulates, 25 ml of both 7vPnC and 13vPnC were aliquoted and transferred to a 50
   ml centrifuge tube. The samples were centrifuged for 10 minutes at 3,000 rpm and
25 the supernatant was carefully extracted and transferred to a Nalgene@ bottle. Ten
   siliconized stoppers (4432 Stoppers) were added to each bottle and placed on orbital
   shaker at 50 rpm. After careful visual inspection, it was observed that the 7vPnC
   supernatant exhibited no particulate formation, thereby remaining clear and colorless.
                                                -34-

   However, the 13vPnC supernatant began to show low levels of particulate in the
   fourth hour of observation (data not shown). This result suggested that the free
   protein-polysaccharide in solution, in conjunction with silicone, is responsible for the
   formation of the particulates.
 5         To further elucidate the contribution of the free protein-polysaccharide in
   solution to the formation of particulates, monovalent S. pneumoniae serotypes 4 and
   6B were chosen for their high and low binding to aluminum, respectively. These two
   monovalents were formulated at protein concentration ranging from 25 gg/ml to 200
   pg/ml in the absence and presence of AIPO 4 .         Ten siliconized stoppers (4432
10 stoppers) were placed in each formulation, which were then placed on the orbit
   shaker at 50 rpm. As indicated below in Table 5, fiber-like white particulates were
   observed for both monovalent serotypes at all protein concentrations in the absence
   of AIPO 4. However, in the presence of AIPO 4, particulates were detected at lower
   concentrations for serotype 4 (100 gg/ml) versus serotype 6B (200 ggfml), data not
15 shown,
                                             -35-

                                             TABLE 5
          EFFECT OF PROTEIN CONCENTRATION ON THE FORMATION OF PARTICULATES
                                                         Appearance
                                                     (Visual Inspection)
                                     Without AIPO,                         With AIPO 4
         25 sg/mL of 6B        Fiber-like white particulates             No particulates
         50 pg/mL of 6B        Fiber-like white particulates             No particulates
         75 sg/mL of 6B        Fiber-like white particulates             No particulates
        100 g/mL of 6B         Fiber-like white particulates             No particulates
        200 pg/mL of 6B        Fiber-like white particulates      Fiber-like white particulates
       25 pg/mL of Type 4      Fiber-like white particulates             No particulates
       50 pg/mL of Type 4      Fiber-like white particulates             No particulates
       75 pg/mL of Type 4      Fiber-like white particulates             No particulates
      100 pg/mL of Type 4      Fiber-like white particulates      Fiber-like white particulates
      200 pg/mL of Type 4      Fiber-like white particulates      Fiber-like white particulates
 5                                         EXAMPLE 4
       ALUMINUM ADJUVANTS INHIBIT THE FORMATION OF 13VPNC PARTICULATES INTHE
                         PRESENCE OF SILICONIZED CONTAINER MEANS
            As set forth above in Example 3, a 13vPnC immunogenic composition is a
   liquid formulation comprising 4.4 pg/mL of S. pneumoniae serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A,
10 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 23F and 8.8 pg/mL of type 6B in 5 mM succinate buffer
   (pH 5.8) and 0.85% NaCl, which may also be formulated with or without an adjuvant
   (e.g., an aluminum adjuvant). The 13vPnC may also be formulated with or without
   an adjuvant, such as 0,25 mg aluminum/ml aluminum phosphate (AIPO4).                     It was
   observed in Example 3, that 13vPnC formulated without AIPO 4 and filled in BD Hypak
iS SCF Th syringes (capped with Hypak plungers) failed visual inspection due to the
   observation of particulates, wherein further studies revealed that the particulates
   were in part a result of protein-polysaccharide interactions with silicone.             In the
   following example, syringes (and plungers) from various vendors were evaluated
   with 13vPnC formulations, wherein shipping and handling conditions were simulated
20 via agitation (described below).
   Materials
                                               -36-

        The 13vPnC was formulated in 5 mM succinate buffer containing 0.85% NaCl
   and 4.4 ig/ml of S. pneumoniae serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F
   and 23F and 8.8 pg/ml of S. pneumoniae serotype 6B, with and without 0.25 mg/ml
   aluminum phosphate. The container means tested are listed below in Table 6.
 5
                                               TABLE 8
                                         CONTAINER MEANS
                                Container Means                     Description
                1     Vetter syringes                       1ml long bulk format
                      Type 1 untreated glass
                2     Schott TopPac@ syringes               Plastic syringes
                3     RD Baked syringes                     0.1 mg silicone/barrel
                      Type 1 untreated glass
               4      BD Baked syringes                     0.04 mg slicone/barrel
                      Type 1 untreated glass
                5     RD High viscosity syringes            2.25 ml syringes
                      Type 1 untreated glass                12500 est silicone
                6     BD High viscosity syringes            1.0 ml syringes
                      Type 1 untreated glass                12500 cst silicone
                7     BUnderGlas syringes, PS2              0.056 mg silicone/barrel
                      Type 1 untreated glass
                8     BUnderGlas syringes, PS4              0.14 mg silicone/barrel
                      Type 1 untreated glass
                1     West 4023/50 Flurotec@ B2-40          Fluroteco plungers
                      plungers
                2     West 4023/50 Flurotec@ B2-40          Flurotec@ plungers
                    I plungers
                1     13vPnC with AIPO 4 in BD Hypak        Positive control, high
                      syringes with West 4432 ready to      silicone
                      use plungers and 7025/65 EZ tip
                      caps
                2     13vPnC with AIPO 4 in un-siliconized  Negative control, not
                      syringes with West 4023/50            treated with silicone
                      Flurotec@ B2-40 plungers
   Methods
10          Formulation and Fill Procedure. Listed below in Table 7 is the recipe for a
   2 liter 13vPnC formulation.       Briefly, the 0.85 % saline was first added to a glass
   beaker, followed by the 5 mM succinate buffer (pH 5.8), and then sequentially each
   of the S. pneumoniae serotype conjugates. The formulation was then gently mixed
   on a stirrer plate and filtered through a 0.22 im Millipore@ filter unit. For formulation
15 comprising AIPO 4 , the AIPO 4 (0.25 mg/ml final concentration) was then added and
   the formulation gently mixed. The test syringes were then filled (0.58 ml/syringe) and
   capped with plungers.
            Shipping Simulation via Agitation.           A VWR@ signature Digital Multitube
   vortexer (Catalog No. 14005-826) was used to agitate the samples. The syringes
20 filled with 13vPnC were placed horizontal and fixed by the two support plates of the
                                                -37-

   vortexer. Samples were held at horizontal position and agitated at 500 rpm pause
   mode at 2-8"C for twenty-four hours.
            Nephelometry. Serotype specific antigenicities were determined by a rate
   nephelometry assay using type-specific antibodies.        For 13vPnC with AIPO 4, the
 5 aluminum phosphate was solubilized by adding 1N NaOH.                The solution was
   immediately neutralized by adding IM citric acid.      For 13vPnC without AIPO4, no
   solubilization and neutralization procedures were performed. The assay measures
   the rate of change of light scattering intensity derived from the antibody-antigen
   complex formed in the sample using Beckman Array 360 nephelometer.
10
                                            TABLE 7
                                 13vPNC FoRMULATION TABLE
                         Batch      Bulk      Required     13vPnC with     13vPnC without
        Component         Size      Conc        Conc          AIPO4              AIPO4
                           (L1    (mglmL)      (uglmL)    Volume (mL)        Volume (mL)
         serotype 1       2.000     0.506         4.           17.39              17.39
         serotype 3       2.000     0.256         4.4          34.38              34.38
         serotype4        2.000     0.30          4,4          16.60              16.60
         serotype 5       2.000     0.515         4.4          17.09              17.09
        serotype 6A       2.000     0519          4.4          16.96              16.96
        serotype 6B       2.000     0.489         8.8          35.99             35.99
        serotype 7F       2.000     0.50          4.4          17.60              17.60
        serotype 9V       2.000     0621          4.4          16.89              16.89
        serotype 14       2.000     0518          4.4          16.99              16.99
       serotype 18C       2.000     0509          4.4          17.29              17.29
       serotype 19A       2.000     0.511         4.4          17.22              17.22
       serotype 19F       2,000     0520          4.4          16.92              16,92
       serotype 23F       2.000     0.511         4.4          17.22              1722
     Succinate Buffer
     in 0.85% Saline,     2.000      50.0        5000          200.0             200.0
           pH 5.8
           AIPO 4         2.000     3.250         250         153.85               NA
           Saline         2.000       NANA                   1387.62            1541.46
   RESULTS
15          In this study, syringes from different venders, having different silicone levels
   (Table 6), were subject to controlled agitation conditions. The total antigenicity of
   each serotype was measured by Nephelometry assay for both pre-agitation and post
   agitation samples. Antigenicity loss following agitation (percentage) was calculated
   and is shown in FIG. 2 through FIG. 7.
20          Prior to the study, the agitation conditions were optimized based on the
   antigenicity loss of the two controls: (1) the worst-case control (positive control, high
   silicone; FIG. 2) and (2) the best-case control (negative control, no silicone; FIG. 3).
   The conditions were then optimized such that the antigenicity loss was low in positive
                                              -38-

   control, yet detectable in the negative control. This was to ensure that the agitation
   was neither too weak to produce precipitation in the syringes; nor too strong, such
   that the precipitation might be caused by factors other than the silicone interaction
   (e.g., by shear forces). Thus, agitation at 500 rpm (pause mode) for twenty-four
 5 hours was chosen as the most suitable agitation condition, while a temperature of 2
   84C and a horizontal position were used to simulate the conditions in real time
   product shipping and handling.
            The results of the study are summarized as follows: The largest antigenicity
   losses of the 13vPnC formulated with AIPO 4 occurred in the syringes with higher
10 silicone levels (data not shown). For example, of the syringes listed in Table 6, the
   BD Hypak syringe (control 1), the BD baked syringe (syringe 3; 0.1 mg silicone), the
   BD high viscosity (syringe 5) and the B(nderGlas PS4 syringe (syringe 8, 0.14 mg
   silicone), each had one or more of the 13vPnC serotypes with greater than 10%
   antigenicity loss. The smallest antigenicity losses of the 13vPnC formulated with
15 AIPO 4 occurred in the syringes with lower silicone levels. For example, the Vetter
   syringes (FIG. 4) and the Schott TopPac plastic syringes (FIG. 5) were most similar
   to un-siliconized syringes (FIG. 2), both demonstrating minor antigenicity losses for
    13vPnC formulated with AIPO 4.
            The influence of the aluminum phosphate on stabilizing the 13vPnC and
20 inhibiting particulate formation in the presence of siliconized syringes was analyzed
   in experiments using 13vPnC formulated with and without 0.25 mg/ml AIPO 4 , wherein
   syringes used were the BD baked low silicone syringes (syringe 4 in Table 6) and the
   BOnderGlas low silicone PS2 syringes (syringe 7 in Table 6). The BID baked low
   silicone syringes (0.04 mg silicone/barrel) typically had less than 10% antigenicity
25 loss for the 13vPnC serotypes formulated with AIPO 4 (FIG. 6A), whereas the
   antigenicity loss for the 13vPnC serotypes formulated without AIPO 4 (FIG. 6B) had
   antigenicity losses ranging from 5% (serotype 1) up to about 50% (serotype 23F).
   The BOnderGlas low silicone PS2 (0.056 mg silicone/barrel) syringes had less than
   5-8% antigenicity loss (depending on serotype) for 13vPnC formulated with AIPO 4
30 (FIG. 7A), whereas the antigenicity loss for the 13vPnC serotypes formulated without
   AIPO 4 (FIG. 78) had antigenicity losses ranging from about 5% to about 30%
   (depending on serotype).
            Thus, these data taken together indicate that: (1) the antigenicity loss of
    13vPnC was greater in the syringes with higher silicone levels and (2) the 13vPnC
35 formulated without AIPO 4 sustained greater antigenicity losses than 13vPnC with
   AIPO 4 in all of the syringes tested.
                                             -39-

                                          EXAMPLE 5
            FORMULATIONS COMPRISING SURFACTANT OPTIMIZE THE BINDING OF
           MENINGOCOCCAL ANTIGENIC PROTEINS To ALUMINUM SALT ADJUVANTs
           The recombinant lipidated N. meningitidis 2086 protein (rLP2086) used in this
 5 example was expressed and purified as follows.         The rLP2086 was expressed
   recombinantly in E coli utilizing a native leader sequence. Standard fermentation
   protocols for E. coli using animal-free defined medium and subsequent cell lysis were
   followed. Recombinant lipidated N. meningitidis 2086 protein was purified from the
   membrane pellet with 50mM Tris-HCI/5mM EDTA/1% sarcosyl pH 8. This sarcosyl
10 extract was adjusted to 1% Zwittergent 3-14 (Z3-14) and dialyzed twice against a 30
   fold excess of 50mM Tris-HCI/5mM EDTA/1% Z3-14. The dialyzed rLP2086 extract
   was precipitated with 90% ethanol to remove remaining sarcosyl, and solubilized with
   50mM Tris-HCI/5mM EDTA/1% Z3-14 pH 8. Insoluble material was removed by
   centrifugation, the supernatant was passed over an anion exchange chromatography
15 column, and rLP2086 was collected in the unbound fraction. The unbound material
   was then dialyzed twice against a 30-fold excess of 25mM NaAc/1% Z3-14 pH 4.5,
   and passed over a cation exchange chromatography column. The rLP2086 was
   eluted with a 0-0.3M NaCl gradient and stored frozen (-250 C).
           The purified rLP2086 was then formulated with 150 mM NaCl, 0.020%
20 TweenT,"80, 0.25 mg AI/mL of AIPO 4, and in the following buffers: 10 mM phosphate
   buffer at pH 7.0 and 5 mM succinate buffer at pH 6.0. Table 8 compares protein
   binding percentage to the AIPO 4 adjuvant.
                                            TABLE 8
25                              RLP2086 BINDING TO ADJUVANT
              Buffer                  Total Protein Cone.     AIPO4 Bound Protein (%)
                                             (l.g/mL)
    10 mM Phosphate buffer
   pH 7.0 containing 150 mM                     400                      68
   NaCl, 0.02% polysorbate
   80 and 0.25 mg A1/mL of                       120                     82
   AIPO 4
   5 mM Succinate buffer pH
   6.0 containing 150 mM                        400                      81
   NaCl, 0.02% polysorbate
   80 and 0.25 mg Al/mL of                      120                      100
   AIPO 4
                                              -40   -

                                        REFERENCES
   Baldwin, "Contamination of insulin by silicone oil: A potential hazard of plastic insulin
           syringes", Diabet Med., 5:789-790, 1988.
 5 Bartzoka, Brook and McDormott, "Protein -Silicone Interactions at Liquid-Liquid
           Interfaces. In K.L. Mittal and P. Kumar (eds.), Emulsions, Foams and Thin
           Films, Dekker, New York, pp. 371-380, 2000.
   Bartzoka, Brook and McDormott, "Protein-Silicone Films: Establishing the Strength of
           the Protein-Silicone Interaction", Langmuir 14:1892-1898, 1998.
10 Bartzoka, Brook and McDormott, "Protein-Silicone Interactions: How Compatible Are
           the Two Species?", Langmuir 14:1887-1891, 1998*.
   Bartzoka, Chan and Brook, "Protein-Silicone Synergism at Liquid/Liquid Interfaces",
           Langmuir 16:4589-4593, 2000.
   Bernstein, "Clouding and Deactivation of Clear (Regular) Human Insulin: Association
15         with Silicone Oil from Disposable Syringes", Diabetes Care 10:786-787, 1987.
   Bernstein, "Clouding and deactivation of clear (regular) human insulin: Association
           with silicone oil from disposable syringes?", Diabetes Care, 10:786-787,
           1987.
   Bolgiano et al., "Effect of Physico-Chemical Modification on the Immunogenicity of
20         Haemophilus      influenzae    Type     b Oligosaccharide-CRM 19,    Conjugate
           Vaccines", Vaccine, 19:3189-3200, 2001.
   Chantelau and Berger, "Pollution of insulin with silicone oil, a hazard of disposable
           plastic syringes", Lancet, 1:1459, 1985.
   Chantelau et al, "Silicone oil released from disposable insulin syringes", Diabetes
25         care, 9:672-673, 1986.
   Chantelau, "Silicone oil contamination of insulin", Diabet. Med., 6:278, 1989.
   Chantelau, Burger and Bohlken, "Silicone Oil Released from Disposable Insulin
           Syringes", Diabetes Care 9: 672-673, 1986.
   Collier and Dawson, "Insulin syringes and silicone oil", Lancet, 5:789-790, 1985.
30 Ho et al., "Physico-Chemical and Immunological Examination of the Thermal Stability
           of Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccines", Vaccine, 20:3509-3522, 2002,
   Ho et al, "Solution Stability of the Subunit Components of Meningococcal C
           Oligosaccharide-CRM197 Conjugate Vaccines", Biotech. AppL. Siochem.,
           33:91-98, 2001.
35 Jones et al., "Silicone Oil Induced Aggregation of Proteins", J. Pharmaceutical Sci.,
           94(4):918-927, 2005.
                                              -41-

  Kajihara et al., "Development of new drug delivery system for protein drugs using
         silicone", J. Control. Rel. 66:49-61, 2000.
  Polin, "The Ins and Outs of Prefilled Syringes," Pharmaceutical and Medical
         Packaging News Article Index, May 2003.
5 Sun et al., "Protein Denaturation Induced by Cyclic Silicone", Biomaterials 18:1593
          1597, 1998.
                                            -42  -

   What is Claimed is:
   1.    A formulation which stabilizes a polysaccharide-protein conjugate, the
         formulation comprising (i) a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer
 5       has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, (ii) a surfactant and (iii) one or more
         polysaccharide-protein conjugates.
   2.    The formulation of claim 1, wherein the polysaccharide-protein conjugate
         formulation is comprised in a container means selected from one or more of
10       the group consisting of a vial, a vial stopper, a vial closure, a glass closure, a
         rubber closure, a plastic closure, a syringe, a syringe stopper, a syringe
         plunger, a flask, a beaker, a graduated cylinder, a fermentor, a bioreactor,
         tubing, a pipe, a bag, a jar, an ampoule, a cartridge and a disposable pen.
15 3.    The formulation of claim 1, wherein the container means is siliconized.
   4.    The formulation of claim 1, wherein the buffer is succinate at a final
         concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0.
20 5.    The formulation of claim 1, wherein the surfactant is polysorbate 80.
   6.    The formulation of claim 5, wherein the final concentration of the polysorbate
         80 in the formulation is at least 0.01% to 10% polysorbate 80 weight/volume
         of the formulation.
25
   7.    The formulation of claim 1, wherein the polysaccharide-protein conjugate
         comprises one or more pneumococcal polysaccharides.
   8.    The formulation of claim 1, further comprising one or more meningococcal
30       polysaccharides, one or more meningococcal antigenic proteins, or a
         combination thereof.
   9.    The formulation of claim 1, further comprising one or more streptococcal
         polysaccharides, one or more streptococcal antigenic proteins, or a
35       combination thereof.
                                           -43   -

   10. The formulation of claim 1, wherein the polysaccharide-protein conjugate
       formulation is a 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate (7vPnC) formulation
       comprising a S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a
       CRMy97 polypeptice, a S. pneumoniae            serotype 6B    polysaccharide
 5     conjugated to a CRM, 97 polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 9V
       polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19y polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
       serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 1 r polypeptide, a S,
       pneumoniae     serotype   18C   polysaccharide   conjugated   to  a  CRMis
       polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a
10     CRM1 9y polypeptide and a S. pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide
       conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide.
   11. The formulation of claim 1, wherein the polysaccharide-protein conjugate
       formulation is a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate (13vPnC) formulation
15     comprising a S. pneumoniae serotype 4 polysaccharide conjugated to a
       CRM 19 r polypeptide,    a S. pneumoniae       serotype 6B    polysaccharide
       conjugated to a CRM1 97 polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 9V
       polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
       serotype 14 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM197 polypeptide, a S.
20     pneumoniae     serotype   18C   polysaccharide conjugated     to a CRM19,
       polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 19F polysaccharide conjugated to a
       CRM 9,y polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 23F polysaccharide
       conjugated   to a CRM 19r polypeptide, a S.         pneumoniae serotype 1
       polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 197 polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae
25     serotype 3 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM 19r polypeptide, a S.
       pneumoniae serotype 5 polysaccharide conjugated to a CRMis polypeptide,
       a S. pneumoniae serotype 6A polysaccharide conjugated to a CRM19 r
       polypeptide, a S. pneumoniae serotype 7F polysaccharide conjugated to a
       CRM197 polypeptide and a S. pneumoniae serotype 19A polysaccharide
30     conjugated to a CRMi 97 polypeptide.
   12. The formulation of claim 1, wherein the formulation further comprises an
       adjuvant.
35 13. The formulation of claim 12, wherein the adjuvant is aluminum phosphate.
                                       -44  -

   14. A formulation which stabilizes a streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP)
       composition, the formulation comprising (i) a pH buffered saline solution,
       wherein the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 6.5, (ii) a surfactant and
       (iii) a streptococcal C5a pepticase.
 5
   15. The formulation of claim 14, wherein the SCP formulation is comprised in a
       container means selected from one or more of the group consisting of a vial,
       a vial stopper, a vial closure, a glass closure, a rubber closure, a plastic
       closure, a syringe, a syringe stopper, a syringe plunger, a flask, a beaker, a
10     graduated cylinder, a fermentor, a bioreactor, tubing, a pipe, a bag, a jar, an
       ampoule, a cartridge and a disposable pen.
   16. The formulation of claim 15, wherein the container means is siliconized.
15 17. The formulation of claim 14, wherein the buffer is succinate at a final
       concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0.
   18. The formulation of claim 14, wherein the surfactant is polysorbate 80.
20 19. The formulation of claim 18, wherein the final concentration of the polysorbate
       80 in the formulation is 0.01% to 10% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the
       formulation.
   20. The formulation of claim 14, wherein the SCP composition further comprises
25     one or more polypeptides selected from the group consisting of a
       streptococcal polypeptide, a pneumococcal polypeptide, a meningococcal
       polypeptide and a staphylococcal polypeptide.
   21. The formulation of claim 14, wherein the SCP composition further comprises
30     one or more polysaccharides selected from the group consisting of a
       streptococcal      polysaccharide,    a pneumococcal       polysaccharide,    a
       meningococcal polysaccharide and a staphylococcal polysaccharide.
   22. The formulation of claim 14, wherein the formulation further comprises an
35     adjuvant.
                                          -45-

   23. The formulation of claim 22, wherein the adjuvant is aluminum hydroxide,
       aluminum phosphate or aluminum sulfate.
   24. A formulation which inhibits silicone induced aggregation of a polysaccharide
 5     protein conjugate comprised in a siliconized container means, the formulation
       comprising (i) a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer has a pKa of
       about 3.5 to about 7.5, (ii) an aluminum salt and (iii) one or more
       polysaccharide-protein conjugates.
10 25. The formulation of claim 24, wherein the buffer is succinate at a final
       concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0.
   26. The formulation of claim 24, further comprising polysorbate 80 (TweenTM8O),
       wherein the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is at
15     least 0.01% to 10% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.
   27. The formulation of claim 24, wherein the polysaccharide-protein conjugate
       comprises one or more pneumococcal polysaccharides.
20 28. The formulation of claim 24, further comprising one or more meningococcal
       polysaccharides, one or more meningococcal antigenic proteins, or a
       combination thereof.
   29. The formulation of claim 24, further comprising one or more streptococcal
25     polysaccharides, one or more streptococcal antigenic proteins, or a
       combination thereof.
   30. The formulation of claim 24, wherein the formulation further comprises an
       adjuvant.
30
   31. A formulation which inhibits silicone induced aggregation of a streptococcal
       C5a peptidase (SCP) composition comprised in a siliconized container
       means, the formulation comprising (i) a pH buffered saline solution, wherein
       the buffer has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 6.5, (ii) an aluminum salt and (iii) a
35     streptococcal CSa peptidase.
                                         - 46-

   32. The formulation of claim 31, wherein the buffer is succinate at a final
       concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM and pH 5.8 to 6.0.
   33. The formulation of claim 31, further comprising polysorbate 80 (Tween"T80),
 5     wherein the final concentration of the polysorbate 80 in the formulation is at
       least 0.01% to 10% polysorbate 80 weight/volume of the formulation.
   34. The formulation of claim 31, wherein the SCP composition further comprises
       one or more polypeptides selected from the group consisting of a
10     streptococcal polypeptide, a pneumococcal polypeptide, a meningococcal
       polypeptide and a staphylococcal polypeptide.
   35. The formulation of claim 31, wherein the SCP composition further comprises
       one or more polysaccharides selected from the group consisting of a
15     streptococcal    polysaccharide,     a    pneumococcal     polysaccharide,       a
       meningococcal polysaccharide and a staphylococcal polysaccharide.
   36. The formulation of claim 31, wherein the formulation further comprises an
       adjuvant.
20
   37. A formulation which stabilizes a N. meningitidis 2086 protein composition, the
       formulation comprising (i) a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer
       has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, (ii) a surfactant and (iii) a N. meningitidis
       2086 protein.
25
   38. The formulation of claim 37, wherein the surfactant is polysorbate 80.
   39. The formulation of claim 37, wherein the formulation further comprises an
       aluminum salt adjuvant.
30
   40. A formulation which inhibits silicone induced aggregation of a N, meningitidis
       2086 protein composition comprised in a siliconized container means, the
       formulation comprising (i) a pH buffered saline solution, wherein the buffer
       has a pKa of about 3.5 to about 7.5, (ii) an aluminum salt and (iii) a N.
35     meningitidis2086 protein.
                                         -47-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
