                                          ABSTRACT
Wine grape osmosis extraction method to minimise adverse flavours entering the extracted
grape juice from within the grape, making it suitable for fermentation into standard, fortified
or sparkling wine. The remaining osmosis transferred ethanol that has entered the fruit, can
then be made ready for distillation to produce grape brandy, alcohol fortification of wine, or
liqueurs.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Wines grapes are harvested and destemmed in the usual manner. They are then immersed in a
solution of dilute potable ethanol. The grape cuticle and exocarp usually have very few stomata and
this enhances the property of grape skin to act as a semi-permeable membrane for osmosis.
Ethanol and wine grape sugars and flavour solutions have different specific gravities, the former is
considerably lower than the latter. Osmotic force allows ethanol to enter the pulp of the grape and
the grape sugars and flavour solution enters the external immersion solution, leaving undesirable
grape tannins inside the fruit skin.
This results in a considerably lower ethanol content in the immersion solution and higher ethanol
content within the grape. Once the ethanol level has dropped sufficiently in the immersion solution,
it can then be fermented into wine, fortified wine or sparkling wine.
The ethanol laden fruit can then be shredded or pierced, diluted with hot water, filtered and pot
distilled to extract the grape flavoured ethanol distillate to produce a wine grape brandy

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Wine grape osmosis extraction method to minimise adverse flavours entering the extracted grape
juice from within the grape, making it suitable for fermentation into standard, fortified or sparkling
wine. The remaining osmosis transferred ethanol that has entered the fruit, can then be made ready
for distillation to produce grape brandy, alcohol fortification of wine, or liqueurs.

