LANDING PAD FOR UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE DELIVERY
ABSTRACT
A landing pad (1) comprising: a landing platform (2); a storage compartment (3); and a receiver
associated with said landing pad (1) capable of receiving a first signal.

                                                    1
LANDING PAD FOR UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE DELIVERY
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014373647. Australian Patent Application No. 2014373647 claims priority to U.S. Provisional
Application Serial No. 61/923,207, filed on 2 January 2014. Both of which are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The present invention relates to the use of a landing pad to send/receive packages via
unmanned air aerial vehicles, also frequently referred to as drones. One embodiment involves
mounting the device in a window so that it can be used by those living in high-rises.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Online or remote shopping has grown immensely over the past decade and now accounts
for over 8%of items sold, with sales topping $226 billion in 2012 and expected to climb to $327
billion by 2016. Remote shopping offers many benefits including: allowing customers to shop
from literally anywhere in the world; eliminating the costs associated of having to ship, store,
and sell items from traditional retail store locations; and allowing manufacturers and distributors
to reach a larger target market. With the growth of Cyber Monday, the trend of increased online
or remote shopping has increased unequivocally.
[0004] However, despite these advantages, remote shopping is not without its drawbacks. Most
prominent among such drawbacks is the lag time between purchasing an item and having it
delivered. With the exception of digital goods that can be downloaded over the internet, most
goods purchased by remote shopping need to be delivered to the users home or business. This
usually takes days, if not weeks, and is subject to the intrinsic costs, hazards and obstacles of
traditional parcel delivery. The variability in timeframes and distance is due to the inherent
drawbacks of the current logistics and transportation models.
[0005] Companies are attempting to minimize the delay between purchase and delivery by
offering same day delivery in certain cities. However, this can be very costly and inefficient as it

                                                    2
requires a large number of individuals on call to go out and deliver items as they are purchased.
Not only does this increase the delivery cost, but also increases traffic congestion and carbon
emissions, as there are more people out making deliveries.
[0006] One suggestion in improved delivery service that does not have the draw backs of
conventional same day delivery, is the use of unmanned aerial vehicles/drones. Low flying
drones, such as quadcopters and octocopters, can be used to carry and deliver small to medium
sized packages, directly to known locations, using global positioning system technology,
telemetry, metadata and/or commands from a remote operator. Once purchased, these drones
promise to be much more cost effective than human delivery, and will likely be faster as they
can bypass traffic and are not limited to following paved roads.
[0007] As consumer demand for same day delivery rises, drones will rapidly become a viable
technology for many delivery services and companies. Companies implementing drones will
reach a greater market with less overhead and lower costs than companies using conventional
delivery methods.
[0008] Despite its many advantages, one of the potential problems of using drones to deliver
packages is that their use will increase package theft. This problem arises from the fact that
drones are visible from the ground and typically have shorter ranges than traditional truck
delivery. Potential thieves will be able to follow drones to their destination and steal the package
after it has been left at the recipient's doorstep.
[0009] Another problem with using drones to deliver packages arises when the destination for
the package is an area with a high density population. In an area with high-rises housing
thousands of tenants and busy streets, packages simply cannot be left in front of buildings. Not
only would this encourage theft, but it would also create a public safety hazard as doors and
streets would quickly become blocked. Currently this problem is dealt with by having a
doorman for a building accept packages for the building's tenants. However, this current setup
will not work with drones, as drones are incapable of opening doors or ringing bells.
[0010] Another issue in utilizing drones for package delivery is that obstacles, such as low
hanging branches or covered porches, can make it impractical if not impossible to deliver goods
to the ground level, and will create a myriad of variables that could lead to either more
expensive delivery due to the increased need for sensors on the drones, or prevent certain areas

                                                    3
from being capable of receiving deliveries. Many of these problems will not be known until the
drone reaches the delivery location, further compounding the problem.
[0011] With Amazon announcing a standardized form of drone delivery with Amazon
PrimeAir, other delivery services will soon begin adopting the new form of delivery. With the
ability to revolutionize the delivery service, it is imperative that the proper infrastructure is
developed to ensure the successful implementation of drone delivery. What is needed is a device
that accepts packages from a drone and is secure from potential thieves.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012] It is an object of the present invention to substantially address the above need, or at least
provide a useful solution one or more of the above described issues.
[0013] In a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a landing pad comprising:
           (a)     a landing platform;
           (b)     a storage compartment; and
           (c)     a receiver associated with said landing pad capable of receiving a first signal.
[0014] In a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of delivering a
package via an aerial vehicle capable of transmitting a first signal recognizable by a receiver
associated with a landing pad, the method comprising:
           (a)     loading said aerial vehicle with said package;
           (b)     employing a global positioning system device to navigate said aerial vehicle to
                   a landing pad comprising said receiver;
           (c)     sending said first signal to said receiver; and
           (d)     actuating a mechanism operatively associated with said aerial vehicle to
                   transfer said package into said storage compartment.
[0015] A landing pad according to an embodiment of the invention with a secure storage
compartment or box can be used to provide a convenient and safe place for drones to deliver
and/or pick up packages. The landing pad can be configured to fit into a standard window, so
that it is more accessible to drones, and less accessible to thieves. The landing pad can also be
configured to stand alone, either on a rooftop or in a field.

                                                  4
[0016] The drone landing pad according to an embodiment of the invention can be secured to a
standard sized window similar to an adjustable window based air conditioning unit. In some
embodiments, the landing pad can have some adjustability to meet a larger variety of window
sizes. The portion that faces into the building can have the digital interface as well as the door to
the lockable compartment. The landing pad then protrudes from the window towards the
outside; creating a platform for the drone to land as well as to secure the package once it is
delivered and/or before it is picked up.
[0017] The method in which the landing pad according to an embodiment of the invention is
mounted to the building includes, but is not limited to: brackets; adhesives; magnets; or other
methods of securing the landing pad to the building. With many large buildings and
condominium/apartment developments having stringent rules and codes concerning the
application of exterior hardware, the method of mounting and securing the pad to the window
can have the options listed above to allow the maximum number of people to benefit from this
technology.
[0018] In some embodiments the outside surface(s) of the landing pad can contain LED or other
display panel(s). This allows the landing pads to display information such as clocks,
advertisements, and/or be decorative features. In some embodiments, multiple landing pads can
be placed on the same building and networked together to create visual designs, much like high
rise buildings often black out certain windows to form words and/or designs.
[0019] Power for the landing pad can come from solar energy, battery energy, electricity from a
wall outlet, or any other method of delivering energy including but not limited to combinations
of the listed power sources.
[0020] In some embodiments, the landing pad can act as a charging station for the air drone.
Various methods for changing the drone could be used including inductive charging, and/or
directly allowing the drone to plug into the landing pad. By allowing drones to charge at the
landing pad, drones will be able to make longer trips and/or carry heavier loads.
[0021] In one embodiment, the landing pad contains a transmitter that transmits, via radio
frequency, a unique ID to help a drone identify it. After identifying the landing pad, the drone
proceeds to the landing platform, which extends from a window, lands and releases its package.
The landing pad, receiving a signal from the drone that the package has been delivered, opens a
trapdoor on the landing platform so that the package can enter a storage compartment. In an

                                                  5
alternative embodiment, the trapdoor is opened before the package is actually delivered, to
lessen the chance that it is dislodged or removed, from the secure location within the landing
platform.
[0022] A storage door, located on the landing pad opens into the building and allows access to
the storage compartment. In some embodiments, the storage door includes a lock to lessen the
chance that the package is stolen. The lock can be accessible through digital means such as pass
code, pin or biometric scanning such as finger print recognition or retinal scan; or the lock can
be accessible through mechanical means such as a key. Opening of the secured storage
compartment can occur through the device itself, or can be opened remotely such as through a
smart phone based application that can remotely configure, secure, or open the device.
[0023] One optional feature that can be included in the design and method of the device is the
option to notify the recipient of the package's arrival through the means of text message or
email notification in addition to the signal on the device itself or integrated into a home smart
system.
[0024] Another optional feature is that the landing pad can be climate controlled. Various
elements of the storage compartment that can be controlled include, but are not limited to, the
temperature, humidity, and light settings. Traditional climate control mechanisms, including air
conditioners, electric and gas heaters, infrared heaters, dehumidifiers and/or humidifiers can be
used. In some embodiments various insulating materials can be used to make the landing pad
more efficient.
[0025] In at least one embodiment, the landing pad can be configured to change the climate of
its storage box based on the item being dropped off and/or picked up. For example, in some
instances if an item that should be kept warm is being dropped off, such as a pizza, the landing
pad can be configured to keep the storage box warm so the item is ready when the individual
gets home. Similarly, when an item that should be kept cool, such as certain medications, is
being dropped off the storage box can be kept cool. In other or the same embodiments, the
storage box can receive information about the item being dropped off from a variety of sources
including, but not limited to, the user, a network, and/or the drone.
[0026] In some embodiments, the landing pad can be configured to adjust the climate based on
user input. For example, in one embodiment, refrigerated food can be dropped off during the

                                                   6
morning when an individual is at work. The landing pad, having received the food, can keep the
food refrigerated until the user gets home, or the user tells the landing pad, either via a physical
signal and/or electrical signal that the landing pad should heat up the food. In this way,
refrigerated food can be delivered, stored, and cooked before the individual arrives home.
[0027] In some embodiments the landing pad can be configured to reduce wind resistance so as
to prevent it from becoming detached during strong winds. In other or the same embodiments,
the landing pad can be configured to fold into the window when not in use to minimize wind
resistance.
[0028] The landing pad according to an embodiment of the invention can be made of various
materials, including but not limited to, aluminum, stainless steel, carbon fiber, and other rust
resistant materials. The interior of the storage compartment can be made of a bacteria resistant
material to prevent mold growth and to keep food sanitary.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0029] Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings:
[0030] FIG. 1 is a side view of a landing pad.
[0031] FIG. 2 is a back view of the landing pad in FIG. 1.
[0032] FIG. 3 is top view of the landing pad in FIG. 1.
[0033] FIG. 4 is a bottom view of the landing pad in FIG. 1.
[0034] FIGS. 5A, 5B and 5C depict the stages of drone delivery.
[0035] FIGS. 6A and 6B depict the actual delivery of the package to the landing pad.
[0036] FIGS. 7A, 7B and 7C depict the use of the landing pad.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)

                                                   7
[0037] FIGS. 1, 2, 3 and 4 illustrate various viewpoints of the same landing pad 1.
[0038] FIG. 1 is a side view of landing pad 1. Landing pad 1 is designed to be inserted into a
window, much like a window air-conditioner with the majority of landing platform 2 and
storage compartment 3, protruding out of the window. In this way, a drone can land on landing
platform 2 and deposit its package into storage compartment 3. A user can then retrieve the
package via storage door 10 (see FIG. 2) which opens into the room.
[0039] Landing platform 2 and storage compartment 3 are supported by support brace 4 which
can be attached to the exterior of a building. An optional transponder (not shown) can use radio
frequency to emit a unique ID corresponding to landing pad 1 to aid the drone, along with GPS,
in finding landing pad 1. This transponder can be housed with other electronics in electronic
housing 5.
[0040] In some embodiments, storage compartment 3 includes a conveyer belt (not shown)
which move packages either towards the window (not shown) after they have been delivered
and/or away from the window when they are being picked up by the drone. In some
embodiments, storage compartment 3 has a hydraulic system that tilts the floor of storage
compartment 3 or the entire storage compartment, to help move any packages towards and/or
away from the window.
[0041] In some embodiments, storage compartment 3 can be expandable to allow for larger
packages, while decreasing wind resistance when storage compartment 3 is not in use.
[0042] FIG. 2 shows a back view of landing pad 1, as would be seen by a user inside the
building. Storage door 10 opens into the room, although it could also push into storage
compartment 3, and allows for access into storage compartment 3.
[0043] An optional lock 6 can be applied to storage door 10 for added security. Lock 6 can be
mechanical, electronic or both, and can be opened by a physical object such as a key, keycard,
fingerprint (or other biometric identifier), by supplying a secret code such as via a keypad, or
voice recognizer, or by a combination of both physical objects and secret codes. Lock 6 is
especially useful if landing pad 1 is installed in a window facing a common room, such as a
hallway or lobby in an apartment.

                                                  8
[0044] One can imagine floors of large skyscrapers being dedicated to drone delivery, in which
residents have personal landing pads installed. Individuals can opt for this type of setup if they
do not want landing pad 1 blocking the view from their personal window, or if they live too high
or too low in a high-rise for effective drone delivery.
[0045] FIG. 3 is a top view of landing pad 1. It illustrates trapdoor 8 on landing platform 2
which opens into storage compartment 3 when a drone leaves a package on landing platform 1.
Trapdoor 8 can be spring loaded and activated via gravity. However, this can cause problems as
it could allow animals, such as birds or squirrels to activate trapdoor 8 and find their way into
users' homes. Furthermore, lightweight packages may not weigh enough to open trapdoor 8.
Finally, if trapdoor 8 is allowed to freely swing open, thieves could easily steal from storage
compartment 3, assuming landing pad 1 can be easily accessed.
[0046] To alleviate these problems, trapdoor 8 can be configured to be opened only via
magnetic and/or mechanical means. In one embodiment, an air drone delivering a package sends
a signal to landing pad 1, that the package is on landing platform 2 and it is safe to open
trapdoor 8. This signal is received by a receiver (not shown) in electronic housing 5 and
trapdoor 8 opens and then closes once the package is inside storage compartment 3.
[0047] In some embodiments, the signals being sent between the landing pad and air drones are
encrypted to prevent thieves from hacking and replicating them.
[0048] FIG. 3 also illustrates optional solar paneling 7. While landing pad 1 can be powered via
a myriad of ways, such as traditional electrical wiring running from the house or batteries, solar
paneling 7 can be a highly efficient source of power for a variety of reasons. For one, solar
paneling 7 will be receiving a full day of sunlight in many situations as it is located outside.
Furthermore, landing pad 1 is dormant most of the time, except when sending out a unique ID
from a transponder when an air drone is near or being engaged by the user and does not require
a substantial amount of power.
[0049] Eliminating the need for external power allows for easier installation in areas without an
electrical outlet nearby.

                                                  9
[0050] Landing pad 1 can also include a device in electric housing 5 that transmits a frequency
that deters animals away from landing pad 1. This would keep animals from nesting on or near
landing pad 1.
[0051] FIG. 4 is a bottom view of land pad 1. It shows electronic housing 5 and storage
compartment 3.
[0052] FIGS. 5A, 5B and 5C depict the steps of the drone delivery method. FIG. 5A depicts
drone 20 with proper data relayed or stored, departing distribution facility 22 with package 25
(see FIG. 6A).
[0053] FIG. 5B shows that upon travel to recipients location 30, drone 20 will conduct the
proper identification of landing pad 1 and, following a successful exchange of credentials,
approaching the landing pad 1 (see FIGS. 6A, 6B, 7A, 7B and 7C) and delivering the package.
FIG. 5C shows drone 20 traveling back to subsequent destination 40, whether that is an original
distribution facility 22 or another location.
[0054] FIGS. 6A and 6B depict the function of landing pad 1 upon successful credential transfer
between drone 20 and landing pad 1 and the subsequent approach of drone 20 to landing pad 1.
[0055] FIG. 6Aa shows drone 20 landing upon landing platform 2. Drone 20 then releases
package 25 as shown in FIG. 6B and continues to subsequent destination 40 (not shown). The
package remains on landing platform 2 until trapdoor 8 opens.
[0056] FIGS. 7A, 7B and 7C depict the steps of package 25 being left on landing platform 2
after successful delivery from drone 20 (see FIG. 7A), package 25 entering storage compartment
3 via trapdoor 8 (see FIG. 7B), and package 25 being removed by a user via storage door 10 (see
FIG. 7C).
[0057] Whether notified by drone 20 or whether it senses the package via internal sensors,
landing pad 1, aware that package 25 is upon landing platform 2, opens trapdoors 8 causing
package 25 to drop into storage compartment 3. In some embodiments, before package 25 is
delivered, a signature is obtained from the addressee and/or landing pad owner. This signature
can be obtained physically and/or electronically such as via an email authorization. This added
level of security allows for a single landing pad to be used by several unrelated individuals
without the fear of others receiving valuable/and or personal deliveries.

                                                  10
[0058] In some embodiments, landing pad is configured to be used with an application that can
run on, among other things, a smartphone, tablet, laptop, and/or personal computer. In some
embodiments the application confirms package deliveries and/or pickups. The application can
also allow an individual to sign for deliveries and/or pickups. In some embodiments, the
application also allows the user to modify various setting on the landing pad such as its internal
climate.
[0059] In some embodiments a notification is sent to a recipient of the successful delivery by
means of text message, email, or notification on a smartphone application in conjunction with an
LED or digital display on landing pad 1.
[0060] FIG. 7C depicts the recipient unlocking and opening storage door 10 and removing
package 25 from the storage compartment 3.
[0061] While particular elements, embodiments and applications of the present invention have
been shown and described, it will be understood, that the invention is not limited thereto since
modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure,
particularly in light of the foregoing teachings.

                                                11
CLAIMS
1.     A landing pad comprising:
       (a)    a landing platform;
       (b)    a storage compartment; and
       (c)    a receiver associated with said landing pad capable of receiving a first signal.
2.     The landing pad of claim 1, wherein said signal is transmitted from a drone.
3.     The landing pad of claim 1, further comprising:
       (d)    a transmitter associated with said landing pad capable of sending a second signal.
4.     The landing pad of claim 1, wherein said landing pad is configured to be placed in a
window of a residence.
5.     The landing pad of claim 1, further comprising:
       (d)    a battery.
6.     The landing pad of claim 1, further comprising:
       (d)    a solar power generator.
7.     The landing pad of claim 1, wherein said storage compartment is climate controlled.
8.     The landing pad of claim 1, wherein said storage compartment has a conveyer belt.
9.     The landing pad of claim 1, further comprising
       (d)    an inductive charging station.
10.    The landing pad of claim 3, further wherein said second signal is associated with said
landing pad.
11.    The landing pad of claim 1, further comprising:
       (d)    a lock associated with said storage compartment.
12.    The landing pad of claim 11, wherein said lock is opened via a biometric identifier.

                                                  12
13.     A method of delivering a package via an aerial vehicle capable of transmitting a first
signal recognizable by a receiver associated with a landing pad, the method comprising:
        (a)    loading said aerial vehicle with said package;
        (b)    employing a global positioning system device to navigate said aerial vehicle to a
landing pad comprising said receiver;
        (c)    sending said first signal to said receiver; and
        (d)    actuating a mechanism operatively associated with said aerial vehicle to transfer
said package into said storage compartment.
14.     The method of claim 13, further comprising:
        (e)    sending a second signal from said landing pad to said aerial vehicle.
15.     The method of claim 13, further comprising:
        (e)    sending a notification to a recipient that said package has been delivered.
16.     The method of claim 15, wherein said notification is sent via said landing pad.
17.     The method of claim 13, wherein said first signal contains information of the contents of
said package.
18.     The method of claim 17, further comprising:
        (e)    adjusting a climate of a storage compartment of said landing pad based on said
information of said contents of said package.
                                    Blacknight Holdings, LLC
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

