Abstract
The invention concerns a method of treating phosphate-containing waste, in
particular phosphate-containing ash from waste-incineration plants, by wet-chemical
digestion in order to obtain compounds of aluminium, calcium, phosphorus and
nitrogen.

                                             1
Method of treating phosphate-containing ash from waste incineration plants by
wet-chemical digestion in order to obtain compounds of aluminium, calcium,
phosphorus and nitrogen
The invention concerns a method of treating phosphate-containing waste, in
particular phosphate-containing ash from waste-incineration plants, by wet-chemical
digestion in order to obtain compounds of aluminium, calcium, phosphorus and
nitrogen.
Raw phosphates are required for the production of fertilizer. In order to be able to
replace the finite raw phosphates, it is well known that the recovery of phosphorus or
phosphates from wastes and waste water it is intended in the European industrial
countries (see Patent DE 10 2012 015 065 B3). This is also appropriate, as the raw
phosphates are increasingly contaminated with heavy metals such as cadmium and
uranium and this contamination can be found again in the fertilizers and in
groundwater.
A major phosphate resource in Europe is the waste water from municipal and
industrial sewage treatment plants. In Germany alone, approximately 50,000 Mg (t)
phosphorus enter the waste water each year and are for the most part precipitated as
metal salts, using precipitating agents such as iron or aluminium salts and are
removed with the sewage sludge. Nowadays, the phosphate-containing sewage
sludges are mostly incinerated and the ultimately obtained ash disposed or
"misappropriated" elsewhere (e.g. road construction, backfilling), since the therein
contained phosphorus is - with a few exceptions in pilot facilities - not recovered.
Similar to other industrial recycling processes such as the recovery of iron from
scrap, the recycling of paper from waste paper, the recovery of copper and other
metals from electrical equipment, even an industrial recovery of phosphorus from
waste is possible. A crucial prerequisite therefore is that the phosphorus-containing
residues show a sufficiently high concentration of phosphorus and exhibit low
contamination and essentially correspond to the currently applied raw phosphates,
preferably without the harmful uranium and cadmium contamination.
Phosphates are obtained from raw phosphate (rock, with a phosphorus content of
approximately 30% P2 05 ) by acid digestion with preferably sulphuric acid, whereby
phosphoric acid and/or calcium phosphate fertilizer is produced (so-called
"superphosphate"). The ashes from incinerated sewage sludges or animal wastes,
such as meat and bone (animal) meal, contain up to 35 wt% P2 05 , however,
depending on the precipitant, even up to 25 wt% iron oxide, aluminium oxide or
calcium oxide. This high metal oxide content, which can be up to tenfold higher than

                                            2
in the raw phosphate, restricts considerably the use of sewage sludge ashes in
industrial processes as an alternative raw phosphate. A problem solution is
demonstrated with the Patent DE 10 2012 015 065 B3, whereby during waste water
treatment phosphates are bound by aluminium salts and subsequently converted to
calcium phosphate, so that in following incineration of the sewage sludge, the
remaining ash contains preferably calcium phosphate, and preferably little aluminium
and iron compounds. The calcium phosphate rich ash is suitable for use as raw
phosphate for fertilizer production, however, always in combination with
accompanying contaminations from the ash.
Ashes resulting from the incineration of sewage sludges, organic wastes,
biodegradable wastes, animal wastes etc. such as animal meal contain various
recyclables. The following table shows the main components (calculated as oxides)
and the content of reusable materials of some ashes that are produced during the
incineration of sewage sludge:
              Ash A        Ash B     Ash C
 % Fe2 0 3      21,9        3,1       11,9
 % A12 0 3      9,3         21,5      12,4
 % CaO          15,2        14,5      11,4
 % P2 0 5       21,0        23,0      20,5
 % SiO 2        18,2        27,0      23,0
The special high value of ashes is justified by their content of P2 05 , CaO and A12 0 3 .
Currently, it is not possible to recover efficiently and economically the different
recyclables as marketable products in such ashes. The invention described herein
describes an optionally multistep method for obtaining not only calcium phosphate
containing fertilizers from ashes, but also higher-quality phosphates such as pure
calcium phosphate and/or calcium nitrate-phosphate or phosphoric acid and/or
nitrous phosphoric acid like calcium sulphate (gypsum) and aluminium
hydroxophosphate.
The method according to the invention is based on converting the recyclables from
the ash into different products, particularly into products from the group calcium
nitrate (CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4) and
aluminium hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4), by fractional dissolving in mineral
acids and through addition of suitable reactants.
The method according to the invention is shown schematically in Figure 1.

                                              3
When dissolving the recyclables from phosphate-containing ashes in step 1, explicitly
no hydrochloric acid or other halohydric acid is used, as is today part of the state of
the art.
If ashes are treated with hydrochloric acid, iron, aluminium and calcium salts
dissolve, preferably their phosphates. From the joint digestion solution, different
fractions of aluminium compounds and or calcium phosphate can be obtained, the
disadvantage being however the chloride component which - as all respective
chlorides are easily soluble - ultimately can leave the process as waste water or can
be recovered only very elaborately, e.g. by evaporation.
This serious disadvantage is impressively solved by the invention with an (optional)
multi-stage method, wherein in the initial step of the ash treatment (the dissolving
process in acid) not diluted hydrochloric acid but rather diluted nitric acid and/or
diluted phosphoric acid is used. The salts of these acids, such as calcium phosphate
or calcium nitrate, are of considerably higher value, compared to for example sodium
or calcium chloride, so that the salts, particularly calcium phosphate and calcium
nitrate, can be obtained by precipitation and evaporation processes and, through
their commercialization - especially as NP-fertilizers (NP = nitrogen-phosphorus
fertilizer) the entire recycling process becomes economical.
The first step shall essentially be described by the following equations:
Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 + 6HN0 3 = 3Ca(NO 3)2 + 2 H3 PO4
AIPO 4 + 3HN0      3  = AI(NO 3 )3 + H3 PO4
From the solids, e.g. the ash, Ca and Al ions dissolve particularly, while Fe ions pass
only in small amounts into solution and remain in the residue with the likewise barely
soluble silicates (SiO2). Like in the state of the art, the insoluble components are
separated from the acid digestion solution by filtration, e.g. using a decanter, a
vacuum belt filter or a filter press. Preferably, in order to reduce looses, the residue in
the filtering units is washed with water and the washing water is led back to the first
process step as dilution water for the digestion acid.
Following step 1, calcium sulphate can now be precipitated (CaSO 4 , Gypsum) by
addition of sulphuric acid (H2 SO 4 ) to the resulting filtrate or supernatant after step 1.
This is carried out in the acidic, filtered digestion solution in the second step,
according to the chemical equation
3Ca(NO 3)2 + 3H 2 SO 4 = 3CaSO 4 + 6HN0             3
CaHPO 4 + H2SO 4 = CaSO 4 ++ H3 PO4
In order to reduce the need for nitric acid and to design the process more
economically, the recovery of nitric acid or phosphoric acid is an important step of the
multistep method. Thus, an almost complete recovery of the nitric acid or phosphoric

                                              4
acid is possible, if the diluted sulphuric acid is dosed in stoichiometric ratio to the
calcium content, wherein the precipitation to calcium sulphate (gypsum) is completely
surprisingly possible also at a pH-value below 1. The sum of the two steps results in
the following chemical equation:
Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 + 6HN0 3 = 3Ca(NO 3)2 + 2 H3 PO4
3Ca(NO 3)2 + 3H 2 SO 4 = 3CaSO 4 + 6HN0 3
The potassium sulphate precipitate (gypsum) is filtered in a conventional manner,
dehydrated and washed with water. This acidic wash water is, preferably, also fed
back in the first process step as dilution water. The dewatered gypsum can be further
processed in further process steps aside the procedure chain described herein, e.g.
by calcination to anhydrite or by chemical conversion, according to patent DE 196 11
454 Al.
By multiple recirculation, by continuously dissolving phosphate from the ash, the
concentration of phosphoric acid is always further increased and can be boosted to a
concentration above 30% H3 PO 4 , if the also co-dissolved aluminium ions would not
primarily interfere. Depending on A12 0 3 content of ash, the Al concentration in the
digestion acid can rise above 5%, so that commercialisation is no longer possible.
According to the invention, this problem is solved in a third step, whereby aluminium
ions are precipitated as aluminium hydroxophosphate by addition of preferably
calcium oxide.
Due to the high salt concentration in the digestion acid, the aluminium
hydroxophosphate precipitation is surprisingly possible already through addition of
small amounts of hydroxyl ions with only a slight increase of the strongly acidic pH
value from approximately pH 1 to 1.5 to pH 2.0 to 2.5. This is preferably achieved by
addition of calcium oxide (CaO), but also by addition of calcium hydroxide, calcium
carbonate, calcium silicate (sand-lime brick) sodium hydroxide or sodium silicate.
Like in the prior art, the precipitate from aluminium hydroxophosphate is separated or
recovered by filtration, e.g. using a decanter, a vacuum belt filter or a filter press.
The process of the third step can be described by the following equation:
2Al(NO 3)3 + 2H 3 PO 4 + 4CaO = AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 + CaHPO 4 + 3Ca(NO 3)2 + H2 0
While Ca phosphate and Ca nitrate remain in solution, the Al salts precipitate already
at a pH value of about 2.
After the separation (depletion) of Ca and Al ions in the process steps two and three,
an only slightly contaminated phosphoric acid or nitrous phosphoric acid was formed.
This can be concentrated by evaporation and used as phosphoric acid or nitrous

                                             5
phosphoric acid for the production of fertilizer, whereby mineral raw phosphates can
be digested with this acid, what state of the art is.
Furthermore, the purified phosphoric acid or nitrous phosphoric acid may be recycled
and, according to the invention, used in the first step for dissolving contents of the
ash.
In a preferred variant of the method, where the nitrous phosphoric acid is formed, in
the fourth step, the nitrous phosphoric acid is neutralized with limestone (calcium
carbonate) or quicklime (calcium oxide) and the precipitate is evaporated, so that a
mixture of calcium phosphate and calcium nitrate is formed.
2H 3 PO 4 + 2HN0    3 + 2CaO = Ca(N0 3)2 + Ca(H 2PO 4 )2 + 2H 20
This mixed product is a preferred NP-fertilizer.
Figure 2 shows an overview of the process steps.
If all four steps 1-4 are performed successively, then the recyclables calcium nitrate
(CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4), and aluminium
hydroxophosphate ((AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ) can be obtained simultaneously from the
phosphate-containing solids, e.g. ashes in a one single method.
It is evident that all four stages of the process must under no circumstances be
necessarily conducted. It is also possible, for example, to win (steps 1, 2, 4) only
calcium phosphate and calcium sulphate (gypsum). Alternatively, steps 1, 3 and 4
may be performed only.
Interestingly, the steps 2 and 3 can also be skipped, so that step 4 may be performed
directly after step 1.
Furthermore, the chronological order can be varied, while e.g. after step 1 the step 3
and then steps 2 and subsequently 4 are performed.
As described in detail above, the resulting phosphoric acid (H3 PO 4 ) or the formed
nitrous phosphoric acid (HNO 3/H3PO 4) after step 2 and step 3 can be recycled back
again in order to be used in the treatment of the ash in step 1. This recycling of the
Al- and Ca-depleted acid allows an enormous cost reduction, since the ash dissolving
requires less fresh acid.
In a first aspect Al, the present invention relates to a method of obtaining
(generating) precipitates, selected from the group consisting of calcium nitrate
(CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4), and aluminium
hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ); from phosphate-containing ashes from waste

                                              6
incineration plants, the method comprising at least the obtaining (generating) of
calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ) and calcium nitrate (CaNO 3), characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is separated,
c) optionally, the filtrate or the supernatant is at least partially recycled for the use in
step a),
d) optionally, the filtrate or the supernatant is concentrated,              preferably by
evaporation, in order to obtain phosphoric or nitrous phosphoric acid (HNO 3/H3PO 4 ),
e) optionally, calcium phosphate precipitate and calcium nitrate precipitate are
recovered and separated by adding calcium oxide or calcium carbonate to the filtrate
or to the supernatant,
wherein steps a), b) and e) are carried out preferably.
In a further alternative embodiment of aspect Al steps a), b) and d) are carried out
preferably.
In a further alternative embodiment of aspect Al steps a), b), c) and d) are carried
out preferably.
In a further alternative embodiment of aspect Al steps a), b), c) and e) are carried
out preferably.
If in an embodiment of aspect Al, the step c) is carried out, then at least 10% of the
filtrate/supernatant are preferably recycled for the use in step a), particularly
preferably at least 20%, even more preferably 20% to 80%, and most preferably 40%
to 60%, based on the total filtrate amount obtained.
In a second aspect A2, the present invention relates to a method of obtaining
(generating) precipitates selected from the group consisting of calcium nitrate
(CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4) and aluminium
hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ); of phosphate-containing ashes from waste
incineration plants, the method comprising at least the obtaining (generation) of
calcium sulphate (CaSO 4 ), characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated,

                                             7
c) a pH-value <1 is adjusted and calcium sulphate precipitate is obtained and
separated by adding sulphuric acid to the filtrate or supernatant.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A2, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of calcium sulphate
according to step c) of the aspect A2, as described herein, whereby step c) is carried
out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A2, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of calcium sulphate
according to step c) of the aspect A2, as described herein, whereby step e) is carried
out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A2, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of calcium sulphate
according to step c) of the aspect A2, as described herein, whereby steps c) and d)
are carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A2, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of calcium sulphate
according to step c) of the aspect A2, as described herein, whereby steps c) and e)
are carried out preferably.
If in an embodiment of aspect A2, the step c) of aspect Al is carried out, then at least
10% of the filtrate/supernatant are preferably recycled for use in step a), particularly
preferably at least 20%, even more preferably 20% to 80%, and most preferably 40%
to 60%, based on the total filtrate amount obtained.
In a third aspect A3, the present invention relates to a method of obtaining
(generating) precipitates selected from the group consisting of calcium nitrate
(CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4) and aluminium
hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ); of phosphate-containing ashes from waste
incineration plants, the method comprising at least the obtaining (generating) of
aluminium hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ), characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated,
c) the dissolved aluminium as aluminium hydroxophosphate precipitate is obtained
and seperated by raising the pH-value in the filtrate or supernatant.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A3, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of aluminium

                                              8
hydroxophosphate precipitate according to step c) of the aspect A3, as described
herein, whereby step e) is carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A3, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of aluminium
hydroxophosphate precipitate according to step c) of the aspect A3, as described
herein, whereby step d) is carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A3, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of aluminium
hydroxophosphate precipitate according to step c) of the aspect A3, as described
herein, whereby steps c) and d) are carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A3, the optional steps c) -e) of
the aspect Al can be linked, following the generation/seperation of aluminium
hydroxophosphate precipitate according to step c) of the aspect A3, as described
herein, whereby steps c) and e) are carried out preferably.
If in an embodiment of aspect A3, the step c) of aspect Al is carried out, then at least
10% of the filtrate/supernatant are preferably recycled for use in step a), particularly
preferably at least 20%, even more preferably 20% to 80%, and most preferably 40%
to 60%, based on the total filtrate amount obtained.
In a fourth aspect A4, the present invention relates to a method of obtaining
(generating) precipitates selected from the group consisting of calcium nitrate
(CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4) and aluminium
hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ); of phosphate-containing ashes from waste
incineration plants, characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated,
c) calcium sulphate precipitate is obtained and seperated by adding sulphuric acid to
the filtrate or supernatant,
d) the dissolved aluminium as aluminium hydroxophosphate precipitate is obtained
and seperated by raising the pH-value in the filtrate or supernatant,
e) optionally, the filtrate or the supernatant is at least partially recycled for use in
step a),
f) optionally, the filtrate or the supernatant is concentrated by evaporation of water, in
order to obtain phosphoric acid or nitrous phosphoric acid (HNO 3/H3PO 4), or

                                              9
g) optionally, calcium nitrate precipitate and/or calcium phosphate precipitate are
obtained and seperated by adding calcium oxide or calcium carbonate to the filtrate
or the supernatant or, alternatively, are concentrated through evaporation or spray
drying
wherein out of the optional steps e)-g step g) is carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A4, from the optional steps
e) -g), the steps e) and g) are carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A4, from the optional steps
e) -g), the steps e), f) and g) are carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A4, from the optional steps
e) -g), the steps e) and f) are carried out preferably.
If in an embodiment of aspect A4, the step e) is carried out, so at least 10% of the
filtrate/supernatant are preferably recycled for use in step a), particularly preferably at
least 20%, even more preferably 20% to 80%, and most preferably 40% to 60%,
based on the total filtrate amount obtained.
As already described herein in the method according to the present invention the
sequence of steps 2 and 3 (precipitation of calcium sulphate, precipitation of
aluminium hydroxophosphate) does not have necessarily happen in this sequence so
that step 1 may also be followed by step 3 (and then by step 2).
In a fifth aspect A5, the present invention relates to a method of obtaining
(generating) precipitates selected from the group consisting of calcium nitrate
(CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4), and aluminium
hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ); of phosphate-containing ashes from waste
incineration plants, characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated,
c) the dissolved aluminium as aluminium hydroxophosphate precipitate is obtained
and seperated by raising the pH-value in the filtrate or supernatant
d) calcium sulphate precipitate is obtained and seperated by adding sulphuric acid to
the filtrate or supernatant
e) optionally, the filtrate or the supernatant is at least partially recycled for the use in
step a)

                                              10
f) optionally, the filtrate or the supernatant is concentrated by evaporation of water, in
order to obtain phosphoric acid or nitrous phosphoric acid (HNO 3/H3PO 4), or
g) optionally, calcium nitrate precipitate and/or calcium phosphate precipitate are
obtained and seperated by adding calcium oxide or calcium carbonate to the filtrate
or the supernatant or, alternatively, are concentrated by evaporation or spray drying,
wherein from the optional steps e)-g at least step g) is carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A5, from the optional steps
e) -g), the steps e) and g) are carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A5, from the optional steps
e) -g), the steps e), f) and g) are carried out preferably.
Optionally, in a preferred embodiment of the aspect A5, from the optional steps
e) -g), the steps e) and f) are carried out preferably.
If in an embodiment of aspect A5, the step e) is carried out, than at least 10% of the
filtrate/supernatant is preferably recycled for use in step a), particularly preferably at
least 20%, even more preferably 20% to 80%, and most preferably 40% to 60%,
based on the total filtrate amount obtained.
As described in detail herein, phosphoric acid (H3 PO 4 ) is obtained in the method
according to the above aspects, so that these methods can naturally also be
understood as methods for optional production of phosphoric acid (H3PO 4 ), and
corresponding embodiments are part of the present invention.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the associated
embodiments above, the phosphate-containing ash is obtained by incineration of
sewage sludges, biodegradable wastes, bio-wastes and/or animal wastes.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the associated
embodiments above, the phosphate-containing ash is obtained by incineration of
sewage sludges, biodegradable wastes, bio-wastes and/or animal wastes in
waste-incineration plants.
In the context of the invention, the term "precipitate" refers to the elimination of a
dissolved substance as solid from a solution, usually initiated by additives of suitable
substances (precipitant). In particular, the term encompasses any fully or partially
insoluble precipitate in form of flakes, droplets or crystalline material, in any
microcrystalline, crystalline or amorphous form. According to the invention, the term
"precipitate" expressly involves any further processing, modification, refining, etc., of

                                                  11
comprised precipitates into powders, fine powders, dusts, bulk material, granular
materials, semolina etc.
In the sense of the invention, the term "calcium phosphate" encompasses
Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), CaHPO4 and Ca(H 2 PO 4 ) 2 .
In the sense of the invention, the term "ash" refers to any solid residue from the
incineration of organic material, for example from sewage sludge, biodegradable
wastes, bio-wastes and/or animal wastes, slaughterhouse wastes, e.g. animal meal.
Ash consists mainly of oxides, and (bi)carbonates of various metals, e.g. A120 3 , CaO,
Fe 2 0 3 , MgO, MnO, P2 0 5 , P4 0 10 , K2 0, SiO 2 , Na 2 CO 3 , NaHCO 3 , etc.
In the sense of the invention, the term "phosphate-containing ash" refers to ashes,
as defined herein, which contain at least one phosphate, as defined herein.
In the sense of the invention, on the one hand, the term "phosphates" concerns
P2 0 5 and P4 0 10 . Furthermore, the term "phosphates" refers to the salts and esters of
orthophosphoric acid (H3 PO 4 ), and involves expressly the condensates (polymers) of
orthophosphoric acid and their esters. In particular, the term "phosphates" refers to
metallic salts of phosphoric acid with the general formula X(Y)m(P0 4 )n, where X and
optionally Y is a metal selected from the group consisting of aluminium, beryllium,
bismuth, lead, cadmium , chromium, iron, gallium, indium, potassium, cobalt, copper,
magnesium, manganese, molybdenum, sodium, nickel, osmium, palladium, rhodium,
ruthenium, strontium, titanium, vanadium, tungsten, zinc, tin.
In the sense of the invention, the term "waste-incineration plants" refers to all
installations, facilities and the like, which are suitable for incineration of the
atmosphere combustible components of any type of waste.
In the sense of the invention, the term "sewage sludge" refers to any suspension of
finely dispersed particles of a solid substance in a liquid.
In a preferred embodiment, the liquid, in which the particles are suspended, is waste
water as herein defined.
In the sense of the invention, the term "waste water" relates to all liquids of aqueous
nature and/or organic nature, or mixtures thereof, which do not have drinking water
quality within the meaning of the Drinking Water Ordinance (TrinkwV) and/or of
national and/or international drinking water standards (e.g. DIN 2000 in Germany).
The term waste water comprises further all waste water in accordance with
§ 54 para. 1 of the Water Resources Act (WHG).
In a preferred embodiment, according to the waste water in the sense of the
invention, water can be contaminated or in its properties or its composition modified
due to its use. Furthermore, in the sense of the invention, the term "waste water"

                                              12
comprises water, which properties are modified because of domestic, commercial,
agricultural or other use and that during dry-weather with it together flowing off water
(dirty water) as well as the flowing off water from rainfall, which can be collected from
the region of built-up or fortified areas (rain water). The leakage and collected liquids
from facilities for treatment, storage and seperation of waste are also considered as
waste water.
Waste water is domestic waste water from toilets (faecal or black water), sanitary
facilities, kitchens and washing machines (washing or grey water) as well as waste
water from premises, which discharge into the public sewage system (commercial or
industrial waste water). Heated water from cooling systems counts also as waste
water. According to the invention, waste water resulting from a variety of cleaning
and treatment techniques from water treatment plants accounts to the waste water.
In a particularly preferred embodiment, the sewage sludge occurs as primary sludge,
raw sludge, excess sludge, as treated and/or stabilised sewage sludge
(aerobic/anaerobic).
In the sense of the invention, the term "bio-waste" relates to all organic wastes of
animal or plant origin that is generated in a household or factory and can be
degraded by microorganisms, soil-living organisms or enzymes. These include for
example food remnants and cut grass. As a rule, bio-wastes are collected separately
in the so-called organic waste bin and treated separately by composting and
fermentation. The resulting compost and the digestate are often recycled again into
the environment, among others in horticulture and agriculture. The term bio-waste
comprises thereby both waste in accordance with the definition of the EU Waste
Framework Directive garden and park waste, and food and kitchen waste (from
households, restaurants, catering industry, retail and processing in the food industry).
In the sense of the invention, the term "biodegradable wastes" comprises besides
bio-waste as defined herein, further also all organic wastes of animal or plant origin
from agriculture and forestry that can be degraded by microorganisms, soil-living
organisms or enzymes. In particular, this term encompasses all organic wastes of
animal or plant origin from agriculture and forestry which further contain at least one
of the following biodegradable materials, selected from the list consisting of wood,
paper and cardboard.
In the sense of the invention, the term "animal wastes" comprises animal carcases
of changed, dead or stillborn large or domestic animals - or parts thereof - as well as
slaughterhouse       wastes,      spoiled   food   of animal       origin  and     animal
by-products, such as milk, eggs, condemned material but also intestinal content and
manure, as well as all further products and generated products.
In the sense of the invention, the term "animal wastes" comprises in particular meat
and animal by-products of domestic animals, wild animals or livestock that have been
killed or died due to illness, especially TSE contaminated carcasses and with

                                              13
chemicals or prohibited substances contaminated animals and trial animals.
Furthermore, meat and by-products with the risk of other non-communicable
diseases are encompassed.
In the sense of the invention, the term "animal waste" includes moreover killed, so
not slaughtered animals, animal by-products (for example milk), and any animal
products containing residues of medicines. Expressly included are also all wastes
and by-products from slaughterhouses, kitchen wastes and food wastes, foods of
animal origin that are no longer appropriate for human consumption, raw milk, fresh
fish or fresh fish by-products. In particular included are:
- kitchen and food wastes of any kind,
- fish or other sea animals, as well as fish wastes of any kind,
- former animal-based food products, which are no longer being intended for human
consumption for purposes other than health risks, e.g. packaging defects,
- parts of slaughtered animals,
- raw milk,
- shells, hatchery by-products and cracked egg by-products,
- hair, fur, horns, etc.,
- animal wastes from the food industry,
- skins, hooves and horns, pig bristles and feathers originating from animals,
- too long stored meat,
- low-quality meat,
- meat from animals exposed to considerable stress,
- blood of animals (not of ruminants) that were slaughtered in a slaughterhouse after
an examination,
- parts of slaughtered animals and animal by-products, which are attributed to the
production of human consumption intended products, degreased bones and greaves,
as well as animal meal.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the incineration of sewage sludge, biodegradable wastes, bio-wastes
and/or animal wastes is performed in waste incinerator plants at 600 0 to 1200 0 C,
preferably at 800 0 to 900 0 C.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the reaction of solids (ash) is carried out with nitric acid.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the reaction of solids (ash) is carried out with phosphoric acid.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the reaction of solids (ash) is carried out with a mineral acid mixture
of phosphoric acid and nitric acid and contains no hydrogen halides (hydrohalic
acids). In particular, the mineral acid mixture does not contain hydrochloric acid.

                                              14
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the mineral acid mixture is present in aqueous dilution at
a concentration of 5 wt% to 50 wt%, preferably 10 wt% to 30 wt%.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the phosphate-containing ash is mixed with the mineral acid mixture
in a reactor, whereby the proportion of ash is 5 wt% to 50 wt%, preferably 20 wt% to
30 wt%, based on the diluted mineral acid.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the mineral acid mixture contains at least phosphoric acid and nitric
acid.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the mineral acid mixture contains in addition to phosphoric and nitric
acid also sulphuric acid.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the reaction time between acid and ash is 2 to 300 minutes,
preferably 10 to 60 minutes.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the reaction temperature is between 200C to 900C, preferably 600C to
80 0C.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated by mechanical
filtration and/or dewatering process.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the seperation of acid-insoluble portion of the solids is performed
using dewatering equipment (e.g. vacuum belt filter, chamber filter press, membrane
filter press, belt filter press, centrifuge).
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, the seperation of acid-insoluble part of the solids is performed using
a vacuum belt filter.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 and the above associated
embodiments, after seperation of the acid-insoluble portion of the solids, the residue
in the filter units is washed with water and the washing water is fed back to the first
process step.

                                            15
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the addition of sulphuric acid is performed at a dilution
from 10 to 98 wt%, preferably 40 to 80 wt%.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the sulphuric acid is added in a molar ratio, which is
equivalent to the dissolved calcium concentration of 0.5 Ca to 1.5 SO 4 (sulphate),
preferably 1.0 Ca to 1.0 SO 4 (sulphate).
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the addition of sulphuric acid is performed in a stirred
reactor.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the residence time in the stirred reactor after addition of
the sulphuric acid is 5 to 60 minutes, preferably 10 to 30 minutes.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the reaction temperature (precipitation of calcium
sulphate through addition of sulphuric acid) in the stirred reactor is 200C to 900C,
preferably 600C to 900C.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the calcium sulphate precipitate is seperated by
mechanical filtration and/or dewatering process.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the seperation of the calcium sulphate precipitate is
carried out with dewatering equipment (e.g. vacuum belt filter, chamber filter press,
membrane filter press, belt filter press, centrifuge).
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the seperation of the calcium sulphate precipitate is
carried out with a vacuum belt filter.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, after seperation of the calcium sulphate precipitate, the
residue in the filter units is washed with water and the washing water is fed back to
the first process step.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, after the seperation of calcium sulphate precipitate, the
recovered filtrate (diluted mineral acid mixture) is at least partly reused for the
digestion of solids.

                                            16
In preferred embodiments of the aspects A2, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the portion of the filtrate recirculation is at least 10%,
preferably at least 20%, even more preferably 20% to 80%, and most preferably 40%
to 60 %, based on the total amount of obtained filtrate.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects of A3, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, after seperation of the acid-insoluble portion of the ash or
after seperation of the calcium sulphate precipitate, the pH-value of the filtrate or the
supernatant is increased with alkali or alkaline earth hydroxides or oxides, preferably
with caustic soda, caustic potash, sodium silicate solution, calcium hydroxide or
calcium carbonate.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects of A3, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the pH-value in a stirred reactor is adjusted to 2.0 to 3.0,
preferably to 2.0 to 2.5.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects of A3, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the residence time in the stirred reactor is 5 to
60 minutes, preferably 10 to 30 minutes.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects of A3, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the aluminium hydroxophosphate is seperated or
obtained by mechanical filtration and/or dewatering process.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects of A3, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated       embodiments,        the  seperation/extraction       of the aluminium
hydroxophosphate precipitate is carried out with dewatering equipment (e.g. vacuum
belt filter, chamber filter press, membrane filter press, belt filter press, centrifuge).
In preferred embodiments of the aspects of A3, A4 and A5 as well as the above
associated       embodiments,        the  seperation/extraction       of the aluminium
hydroxophosphate precipitate is carried out with a filter press.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the filtrate or the supernatant, containing nitric acid
(HNO 3) and/or phosphoric acid (H3 PO 4 ) optionally obtained by seperation of Fe
silicate and/or calcium sulphate and/or aluminium hydroxophosphate, is concentrated
by evaporation to an acidity of 30 wt% to 70 wt%, preferably 40 wt% to 60 wt%.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, in the filtrate or the supernatant, containing nitric acid
(HNO 3) and/or phosphoric acid (H3 PO 4 ) optionally obtained by seperation of Fe
silicate and/or calcium sulphate and/or aluminium hydroxophosphate, the
pH-value is adjusted to 4 to 12, preferably 6 to 9, by the addition of calcium oxide or
calcium carbonate under the formation of calcium precipitates.

                                              17
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, calcium oxide or calcium carbonate is added to the
filtrate or supernatant, containing nitric acid (HNO 3) and/or phosphoric acid (H3 PO 4 ),
optionally obtained by seperation of Fe-silicate and/or calcium sulphate and/or
aluminium hydroxophosphate, in a stirred reactor under formation of calcium
precipitates.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, after the formation of calcium precipitates, the solid
suspension is so far evaporated or spray-dried by heat input that a solid with residual
moisture content of 0 wt% to 25 wt%, preferably of 2 wt% to 10 wt% is produced.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the precipitate or the precipitates occurs as completely or
partially insoluble precipitate in form of flakes, droplets or crystalline material, in any
microcrystalline, crystalline or amorphous form.
In preferred embodiments of the aspects Al to A5 as well as the above
associated embodiments, the precipitate or the precipitates is further processed,
modified, refined etc. to powders, fine powders, dusts, bulk material, granular
materials, semolina etc.
Examples
The entire process is described by the following experimental setup:
Starting material is an ash from a sewage sludge incineration plant. The essential
ingredients were analyzed as follows:
Wt    % P205       25,0
Wt    % CaO        17,5
Wt    % Fe2O3      26,9
Wt    % A1203      6,7
Wt    % SiO2       19,5
100g ash is treated in a beaker glass with 300g of diluted acid.
The diluted acid is composed of: 70 wt% water; 15 wt% HNO 3 and 15 wt% H3 PO 4 .
The suspension is stirred for 30 minutes at 40 0 C and then filtered through a
vacuum-nutsch (with filter) (Vacuum BOchner-Funnel with filter). The filter cake is
then weighed and further dried at 100C.
Wet filter cake = 122g

                                              18
Dried filter cake = 72g
It can be calculated that from 100g ash 72g have not been dissolved in acid, 28g
(= 28%) are acid soluble. In total, 275g filtrate was recovered and subsequently
analysed. The analysis results in the following table were compared with theoretical
values that arise, if the significant ash contents would have resolved to 100% (in the
filtrate and the wet portion of the filter cake):
                        (100%)          (is)      acid soluble
  Wt   %   P205         17,78*        13,68           88,7%
  Wt   %   CaO            5,37          4,80          89,4%
  Wt   %   Fe203         8,25           0,47           5,7%
  Wt   %  A1203          2,06           1,56          75,7%
  Wt   %   SiO2           5,98          0,02           0,3%
*  7.69% P2 0 5 result from the ash, 10.09% P2 05 from the added phosphoric acid.
The results illustrate that high re-dissolving rates of phosphate, calcium and
aluminium can be achieved, while iron is dissolved only slightly, and silicon as SiO 2 is
as expected almost insoluble. The concentration of H3 PO 4 has increased from the
previous 15 wt% to 13.68 x 1.37 = 18.7 wt% (1.37 = conversion factor from P2 05 to
H3PO 4 ). An acid with 37.4% H3 PO 4 and 30% HNO 3 can be obtained by evaporation
by the factor 2. This acid can be used for the production of fertilizers or is neutralized
with CaO, and then evaporated, whereby a double salt of Ca(N0 3)2 * Ca(H 2 PO 4 )2 can
be formed.
This method has the disadvantage that on the one hand, considerable amounts of
nitric acid and phosphoric acid are required, and on the other hand, contaminations
of iron and aluminium salts impair the product quality. The process would be
economically borderline and the value of the end products greatly limited.
These problems, which are massive especially with higher Al concentrations in the
sewage sludge ashes (that can account for more than 20% A12 0 3 ), are solved,
according to the invention, by the multistep process in step 2 and step 3 as follows:
The filter cake (122g wet weight) from the above-described 1st step (the ash
dissolving process) is washed with 100 g of hot water (70-900C). The obtained wash
filtrate is mixed together with 200g filtrate from the 1 st step (dilute acid) with 25 g of
sulphuric acid (48 wt%) in a beaker glass (total weight = 100 + 200 + 25 = 325 g).
According to the above described reaction, white calcium sulphate precipitates after a
few minutes. After 30 minutes, the precipitate was filtered through a vacuum-nutsch
(with filter) (Vacuum BOchner-Funnel with filter). Obtained was 280g filtrate and 43g
gypsum-wet-filter cake. The filtrate was analyzed.

                                             19
The analysis results in the following table are compared with values that result from a
parallel experiment, whereby the filtrate from the 1 st step plus the washing water
have been analyzed in the ratios mentioned above:
                      filtrate+WW       after Ca-precipitation
pH-value                   1,9                    0,9
Wt % P205                  9,58                   9,43
Wt % CaO                   3,70                   1,45
Wt % Fe203                 0,32                   0,33
Wt % A1203                 0,98                   1,01
It is clear from the data that the Ca-content is reduced and at the same time also the
pH-value, due to the fact that additional H-ions could form. The acidic filtrate of the
2 nd step can thus be used for dissolving the ash, whereas the dosage of H3 PO 4 can
be completely dispensed with, since new phosphoric acid is constantly formed from
the phosphate-containing ash. This step is of particular note in the multistep method,
due to the fact that by using the sulphuric acid overall costs are reduced (sulphuric
acid is, according to its efficiency, the cheapest acid), and because gypsum is
additionally recovered.
With the recycled filtrate (low calcium dilute acid) is the recipe of the 1st step now as
follows: 100g ash are treated in a beaker glass with 300g of dilute acid. The dilute
acid is composed of: 270g recyclate and 20g HNO 3. The suspension is stirred for
30 minutes at 40 0 C and then filtrated through a vacuum-nutsch (with filter) (Vacuum
BOchner-Funnel with filter). The filter cake is subsequently weighed and further dried
at 100 C.
Wet filter cake = 130g
Dried filter cake = 75g
It can be calculated that from 100g ash 75g have not been dissolved in acid, i.e. 25g
(= 25%) are acid soluble. In total, 258g filtrate (dilute acid) was recovered and then
analyzed. The analysis results essentially correspond with the results of the 1st
starting step, only the CaO-content was with 5.8% CaO slightly higher (because even
extra calcium was added over the recyclate), while the A120 3 content has increased
further from 1.5 to 2.6%. In a 3 rd step, the aluminium concentration in the dilute acid
is reduced by adding small amounts of calcium oxide. For this purpose, 150g dilute
acid is mixed at room temperature with 1g CaO. A precipitate was formed, which was
filtered with a vacuum-nutsch (with filter) (Vacuum BOchner-Funnel with filter) after 15
minutes. Obtained were 123g filtrate and 25 g wet filter cake. The filtrate was
analyzed.

                                            20
The analysis results in the following table are compared with values that result from a
parallel experiment, whereby the dilute acid has been analyzed before the addition of
CaO
                      Dilute acid       after Al-precipitation
pH-value                 0,9                       2,2
Wt % P205                9,35                      8,95
Wt % CaO                 5,84                      6,42
Wt % Fe203               0,54                      0,48
Wt % A1203               2,61                      0,84
Al-P04-precipitate is formed due to a minor increase of the pH-value, what can be
seen based on the decreased values for P2 05 and A12 0 3 . The values are deliberately
only slightly reduced by the precipitation, since an excessive accumulation of
aluminium ions shall be entirely prevented. The water-washed and dried precipitate
was analyzed as follows:
Wt% P205         31,3
Wt% CaO            1,1
Wt% Fe203          3,5
Wt% A1203        56,1
The precipitate was further treated in an additional experiment, according to patent
DE 10 2012 015 065 B3 07.18.2013, and has been converted to sodium aluminate
solution and a calcium phosphate precipitate.
The process steps described herein are applied variably, depending on the
concentration of Ca and Al ions in the digestion acid (or the corresponding oxide
concentrations in the ash). The essence of the invention is that an economic process
management is possible through combination of process steps and particularly
low-aluminium end products are obtained.
The purified HNO 3-H3 PO 4 acid is preferably neutralized with CaO to a pH-value of 6
and concentrated by evaporation of water, e.g. by spray-drying. The result is
a double salt of calcium nitrate and calcium phosphate. According to the invention,
a salt with the following composition could be formed: 19.5 wt% P205; 28.5 wt%
CaO; 24.3 wt% N03; 0.8 wt% A1203, 0.6 wt% Fe203.
Figure 3 shows the scheme of the various processes.

                                             21
Claims
1. A method for obtaining (generating) precipitates selected from the group of calcium
nitrate (CaNO 3), calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4), and
aluminium hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ); from phosphate-containing ashes
from waste incineration plants, the method comprising at least the obtaining
(generation) of calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ) and calcium nitrate (CaNO 3),
characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated,
c) calcium phosphate precipitate and calcium nitrate precipitate is obtained and
seperated by addition of calcium oxide or calcium carbonate to the filtrate or
supernatant.
2. Method according to claim 1, the method additionally comprising the obtaining
(generation) of calcium sulphate (CaSO 4 ), characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated,
c) calcium sulphate precipitate is obtained and seperated by adding sulfuric acid to
the filtrate or supernatant,
d) calcium phosphate precipitate and calcium nitrate precipitate is obtained and
seperated by the addition of calcium oxide or calcium carbonate to the filtrate or
supernatant.
3. Method according to claim 1 or 2, the method additionally comprising the obtaining
(generation) of aluminium hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ), characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated,
c) calcium sulphate precipitate is optionally obtained and seperated by adding
sulphuric acid to the filtrate or supernatant,

                                              22
d) the dissolved aluminium as aluminium hydroxophosphate precipitate is obtained
and seperated by raising the pH-value,
e) calcium phosphate precipitate and calcium nitrate precipitate is obtained and
seperated by addition of calcium oxide or calcium carbonate to the filtrate or
supernatant.
4. Method according to claims 1 to 3, the method comprising the obtaining
(generation) of precipitates selected from the group of calcium nitrate (CaNO 3 ),
calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4 )2 ), calcium sulphate (CaSO 4), and aluminium
hydroxophosphate (AI(OH) 3 x AIPO 4 ); from phosphate-containing ashes from waste
incineration plants, characterized in that
a) the solids (ash) are reacted with nitric acid or phosphoric acid or a mineral acid
mixture of these two acids,
b) the acid-insoluble portion of the solids is seperated, preferably with a mechanical
filtration and/or dewatering process
c) calcium sulphate precipitate is obtained and seperated, preferably with a
mechanical filtration and/or dewatering process, by addition of sulfuric acid to the
filtrate or supernatant
d) the dissolved aluminium as aluminium hydroxophosphate precipitate is obtained
and seperated, preferably with a mechanical filtration and/or dewatering process, by
raising the pH-value
e) the filtrate or supernatant is optionally recycled for use in step a)
f) the filtrate or the supernatant is optionally concentrated, preferably by evaporation,
or
g) calcium phosphate precipitate and calcium nitrate precipitate is optionally obtained
and seperated, preferably with a mechanical filtration and/or dewatering process, by
addition of calcium oxide or calcium carbonate to the filtrate or supernatant.
5. Method according to claims 2 to 4, characterized in that the sulfuric acid is added
in a dilution from 10 to 98 wt%, preferably 40 to 80 wt%, preferably in a stirred
reactor, whereby the sulfuric acid is preferably added in a molar ratio, corresponding
to the dissolved calcium concentration of 0.5 Ca to 1.5 SO 4 (sulphate), preferably 1.0
Ca to 1.0 SO 4 (sulphate).
6. Method according to claims 3 or 4, characterized in that the pH-value is adjusted to
2.0 to 3.0, preferably to 2.0 to 2.5, preferably with alkali or alkaline earth hydroxides

                                          23
or oxides, especially with caustic soda, caustic potash, sodium silicate solution,
calcium hydroxide or calcium carbonate.
7. Method according to claim 6, characterized in that the phosphate-containing ash is
obtained by incineration of phosphate-containing sewage sludges, biodegradable
wastes, bio-wastes and/or animal wastes in a waste incineration plant.
8. Method according to claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the reaction of the solids is
carried out with a mineral acid mixture, wherein said mineral acid mixture is present
at a concentration of 5 wt% to 50 wt%, preferably 10 wt% to 30 wt% in aqueous
dilution, and, optionally, the phosphate-containing ash is mixed in a reactor with the
mineral acid mixture, wherein preferably the proportion of ash is 5 wt% to 50 wt%,
preferably 20 wt% to 30 wt%, based on the diluted mineral acid mixture.
9. Method of claim 8, wherein the mineral acid mixture contains at least phosphoric
acid (H3 PO 4 ) and nitric acid (HNO 3 ), wherein the diluted mineral acid mixture
contains preferably 10 wt% to 50 wt% HNO 3, and 90 to 50 parts of H3PO 4 , based on
the complete mineral acid content of the aqueous dilution.

                                                                          
                                                                          25
                                                           7HWUDSKRVSULQFLSOH
                                                              Tetra-Phos-Prinzip
<removed-date>
                   $VK
                  Asche                 $FLGPL[
                                        Säure-Mix
                                                            H2SO4                       CaO                         CaO
<removed-apn>
                           5HDFWRU
                            Reaktor 1                 &DVHOHFWLRQ
                                                       Ca-Selektion               $OVHOHFWLRQ
                                                                                   Al-Selektion              32VHOHFWLRQ
                                                                                                             PO4-Selektion
                          )LOWUDWLRQ
                           Filtration 1               )LOWUDWLRQ
                                                        Filtration 2               )LOWUDWLRQ
                                                                                    Filtration 3              )LOWUDWLRQ
                                                                                                               Filtration 4
                      )LOWHUFDNH)HVLOLFD
                   Filterkuchen     / Fe-Silika     &DVXOSKDWH
                                                            Ca-Sulfat            $OK\GUR[RSKRVSKDWH
                                                                                Al-Hydroxophosphat        &DSKRVSKDWH
                                                                                                                  Ca-Phosphat
              
              STEP 1                         STEP 2                      STEP 3                    STEP 4
              
              
              
              Figure 1
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              

                                                         
                                                         26
<removed-date>
                                      HNO3        H3PO4/HNO3
                          H3PO4
                  Ash                    STEP 1
                           Ca3(PO4)2 + 6HNO3 = 3Ca(NO3)2 + 2 H3PO4
                           AlPO4 + 3HNO3 = Al(NO3)3 + H3PO4
<removed-apn>
                            Filtration/Sedimentation                    Fe-Silicate
                             Ca(NO3)2/H3PO4 +Washing filtrate
                                       STEP 2
                  H2SO4    3Ca(NO3)2 + 3H2SO4 = 3CaSO4+6HNO3
                            Filtration/Sedimentation                     CaSO4
                                  H3PO4/AlNO3 +Washing filtrate
                   CaO                 STEP 3
                            2Al(NO3)3+2H3PO4+ 4CaO =
                            Al(OH)3 x AlPO4 + CaHPO4+3Ca(NO3)2+ H2O
                            Filtration/Sedimentation                    Al(OH)3xAlPO4
                                  H3PO4/HNO3                          Evaporation
                   CaO                 STEP 4
                           2H3PO4 + 2HNO3+ 4CaO=Ca(NO3)2+Ca3(PO4)2 + 4H2O
                                            Crystallizer /Evaporation
                                     NP Fertilizer
                                  Ca(NO3)2+Ca3(PO4)2
                                                                                        
              
              Figure 2

                                                                                      
                                                                                      27
              
<removed-date>
                                                             :DVKLQJZDWHU
                                                          Waschwasser
                   $VK
                  Aschesilo   5HDFWRU
                               Reaktor
                              'LVVROYLQJ
                   VLOR        Lösen
                                                                                                                                         Filter cake
                                                                                                                                          Filterkuchen
                                            9DFXXPEHOWILOWHUDVKUHVLGXH                                                            'LVSRVDORUUHFRYHU\
                                             Vakuumbandfilter / Ascherückstand                                                       Deponie oder Verwertung
                                                                                                                                             
<removed-apn>
                                               $ILOWUDWH               :DVKLQJ
                                                A-Filtrat               ILOWUDWH
                                                                       Waschfiltrat                HNO3                  H3PO4
                              5HDFWRU
                              &DSUHFLSLWDWLRQ
                               Reaktor
                              Ca-Fällung
                   H2SO4                                                                                                                     Acidic  gypsum
                                                                                                                                                  saurer Gips
                                       9DFXXPEHOWILOWHUJ\SVXPSUHFLSLWDWH                                                              WREHUHXVHG
                                          Vakuumbandfilter / Gips-Präzipitat                                                                    zur Verwertung
                                                                                                                              CaO
                                                                                            5HDFWRU
                                                                                            $OSUHFLSLWDWLRQ
                                                                                                 Reaktor
                                                                                                Al-Fällung
                                                'LOXWH
                                                DFLG
                                                                                                                                                  Al precipitate
                                               Dünnsäure                                                                                          Al-Präzipitat
                                                                                                           9DFXXPEHOWILOWHU                   WREHUHXVHG
                                                                                                            Vakuumbandfilter                     zur Verwertung
                                                                                                                                  CaO
                                                                                                                              5HDFWRU                 6SUD\
                                                                                                       HNO3/H3PO4             &DSUHFLSLWDWH
                                                                                                                               Reaktor                 GU\HU
                                                                                                                                                     Sprühtrockner
                                                                                                                             Ca-Präzipitat
                                                                                                                                                 &D13)HUWLOL]HU
                                                                                                                                                    Ca-N-P-Dünger     
              Figure 3

