ABSTRACT
The invention relates to compounds of Formula I, wherein R , R2, and R3 are defined in the
specification, useful for the synthesis of novel conjugates and immunogens derived from
quetiapine. The invention also relates to conjugates of a quetiapine hapten and a protein.

               HAPTENS OF QUETIAPINE FOR USE IN IMMUNOASSAYS
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013305935,
which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims priority of the benefits of the filing of U.S. Provisional Application
Serial No. 61/691,462, filed August 21, 2012. The complete disclosures of the aforementioned
related U.S. patent application is/are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The invention relates to the field of immunoassays for determining the presence of quetiapine in
human biological fluids.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Schizophrenia is a chronic and debilitating psychiatric disorder affecting approximately 0.45-1
% of the world's population (van Os, J.; Kapur, S. "Schizophrenia" Lancet 2009, 374, 635
645). The principal goals of treatment are to achieve sustained remission from psychotic
symptoms, reduce the risk and consequences of relapse, and improve patient functioning and
overall quality of life. While many patients with schizophrenia are able to achieve symptom
stability with the available antipsychotic medications, poor adherence to medication is a
common reason for relapse with daily administered oral medications. Several studies (Abdel
Baki, A.; Ouellet-Plamondon, C.; Malla, A. "Pharmacotherapy Challenges in Patients with
First-Episode Psychosis" Journal of Affective Disorders 2012, 138, S3-S14) investigating the
outcomes of non-compliance have shown that patients with schizophrenia who do not take their
medication as prescribed have higher rates of relapse, hospital admission and suicide as well as
increased mortality. It is estimated that 40 to 75% of patients with schizophrenia have
difficulty adhering to a daily oral treatment regimen (Lieberman, J. A.; Stroup, T. S.; McEvoy,
J. P.; Swartz, M. S.; Rosenheck, R. A.; Perkins, D. 0.; Keefe, R. S. E.; Davis, S. M.; Davis, C.
E.; Lebowitz, B. D.; Severe, J.; Hsiao, J. K. "Effectiveness of Antipyschotic Drugs in Patients
with Chronic Schizophrenia" New England Journal of

Medicine 2005, 353(12), 1209-1223).Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is the
quantification of serum or plasma concentrations of drugs, including anti-psychotic
drugs, for treatment monitoring and optimization. Such monitoring permits, for example,
the identification of patients that are not adhering to their medication regimen, that are
not achieving therapeutic doses, that are non-responsive at therapeutic doses, that have
suboptimal tolerability, that have pharmacokinctic drug-drug interactions, or that have
abnormal metabolism resulting in inappropriate plasma concentrations. Considerable
individual variability exists in the patients ability to absorb, distribute, metabolize, and
excrete anti-psychotic drugs. Such differences can be caused by concurrent disease, age,
concomitant medication or genetic peculiarities. Differem drug formulations can also
influence the metabolism of anti-psychotic drugs. TDM permits dose optimization for
individual patients, improving therapeutic and functional outcomes. TDM further
permits a prescribing clinician to ensure compliance with prescribed dosages and
achievement of effective serum concentrations.
To date, methods for determining the levels of serum or plasma concentrations of anti
psychotic drugs involve the use of liquid chromatography (LC) with UV or mass
spectrometry detection, and radioimmunoassays (see, for example, Woestenborghs et aL,
1990 "On the selectivity of some recently developed RIA's" in Methodological Surveys
in Biochemistry and Analysis 20:241 -246. Analysis of Drugs and Metabolites, Including
Anti-infective Agents; Heykants et at., 1994 "The Pharmacokinetics of Risperidone in
Humans: A Summary", J Clin Psychiatry 55/5, supply: 13-17; Huang et aL, 1993
"Pharmacokinetics of the novel anti-psychotic agent risperidone and the prolactin
response in healthy subjects", Clin Pharmacol Ther 54:257-268). Radioimmunoassays
detect one or both of risperidone and paliperidone. Salamone et al. in US Patent No.
8,088,594 disclose a competitive immunoassay for risperidone using antibodies that
detect both risperidone and paliperidone but not pharmacologically inactive metabolites.
The antibodies used in the competitive immunoassay are developed against a particular
immunogen. ID Labs Inc. (London, Ontario, Canada) markets an ELISA for olanzapine,
another anti-psychotic drug, which also utilizes a competitive format. The Instructions
For Use indicate that the assay is designed for screening purposes and intended for
                                               2

forensic or research use, and is specifically not intended for therapeutic use. The
Instructions recommend that all positive samples should be confirmed with gas
chromatographyfmass spectrometry (GC-MS), and indicate that the antibody used detects
olanzapine and clozapine (see ID Labs Inc., "Instructions For Use Data Sheet IDEL
F083", Rev. Date Aug. 8, 2011). Some of these methods, namely HPLC and GC/MS,
can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are generally only performed in large or
specialty labs having the appropriate equipment.
A need exists for other methods for determining the levels of anti-psychotic drugs.
particularly methods that can be performed in a prescribing clinician's office (where the
treatment for an individual patient can be adjusted accordingly in a much more timely
manner) and in other medical settings lacking LC or GC/MS equipment or requiring
rapid test results.
Quetiapine is:
    HO      O
           CN
          N-)
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The subject invention provides compounds and conjugates that permit such an improved
method for determining the levels of the anti-psychotic drug quetiapine.
The invention comprises compounds of Formula 1
                                               3

   R 30     0
               N  -R2
 CU~
                   R'
Formula I
wherein:
Ris H,         H          0,                           0      0
        0    0
          H~
                                N
                              O       , CH 2NH 2, or CH2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H,
or, Z-(Y),-G!;
                                     0   0
                        0     \   N--~        N   )
                                  N         tNyOH
RisH,                     0,                           0      o
        0    0
         NNO
          H           N         N
                                   0
                              0       , CH 2NH 2, or CH2NHC(O)(CH2).nCO 2H,
or, Z-(Y),-G;
R is 11, or W-(Y),-O; provided that two of R        2, R 3 must be I1, and further provided
that R', R2 and R 3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R)-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonvi-,
                                              4

   0          6             R4               O
 ~-:-~      -H -                 N-NH-] 2NH-NH-A
R is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyt group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or ;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
The invention comprises conjugates of compounds of the invention with immunogenic
carriers such as proteins, and products produced by the process of contacting the
compounds of the invention with immunogenic carers.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Figs. I and 2 show Competitive ELISA results generated with various hybridomas;
Fig. 3 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow assay device;
and
Fig. 4 shows a typical dose response curve generated with quetiapine sub-clones 89-3.
89-13, and 89-5.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
The subject invention provides compounds and conjugates that permit the determination
of levels of anti-psychotic drugs. Such methods will permit clinicians to evaluate
objectively at an appointment how likely it is that the worsening of a patient's symptoms
may be due to lack of adherence. Alternatively, if compliant, a clinician can consider a
different treatment choice. Therapeutic drug monitoring, which is enabled by such
methods, is key in identifying the most effective treatment options. Moreover, clinicians
                                               5

believe that such TDM will help them to move into a very different relationship with
their patients, ie., to move from a hypothetical discussion on treatment non-adherence
towards a more collaborative one by engaging patients to actively take ownership in
optimizing their treatment regimen.
The development of the method requires first the synthesis of several immunogens,
comprising a synthetic hapten linked to a protein. A hapten is a small molecule that can
elicit an immune response when attached to a large carrier such as a protein. They are
protein-free substances, of mostly low molecular weight, which are not capable of
stimulating antibody formation alone, but which do react with antibodies,. A hapten
protein conjugate is able to stimulate the production of antibodies. Specific antibody
generation against small molecules is useful for immunoassay development (Pharm Res.
1992, 9(1l):1375-9. Annali Dell'Istituto Superiore di Sanita, 1991, 27(l):167-74, Annali
Dell'Istituto Superiore di Sanita. 1991, 27(l):149-54, Immunology Lcters.1991,
28(l):79-83).
The invention comprises compounds of Formula I
   R30       On
                N
              CN     R2
             N
        N
Formula I
wherein:
                                              6

                                     H      O      N
                                         H          NyOH
R' is H,        H            ,                        O
         0     O
      H
                     N
                         N       N
                                        CHNH1     or CH 2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2 , or
Z-(Y ),G;
                                       0 0
                         N                          NO
  R2is H,     00H                                            O
                        O                                      OH
                           N        0
                                or,     CH 2N1 2, or CH 2 NHC(O)CH2)mCOzI,
or, Z-(Y),G;
R' is H, or W-(Y),-G; provided that two of R,        R must be H, and further provided
that R', R 2 and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4)-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl, -thioalkyl-, -hetcroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
   o          O              R4             0
            _   -                 N-NH-        -NH-NH-j
   0          OR  4
                R 1,   a
R" is H. an alkyl group. cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, alkyl, -aminoalkyl, -thioalkyl- -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
                                              7

Y is an organic spacer group;
o  is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
m is 1,2, .,3 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2. 3, 4, or 5.
The invention comprises compounds of Formula I
wherein:
                                        0   0
                                -U  N Ii       N
                                    H             NO
                 H      n
R i
               O                                       0
           H           N          N
                                 '      , CHNH 2, or CHNHC(O)(CH 2)mCO2H. or Z(Y),G;
                                        O    O
                            \aH           n    sNonOH
             000
R iss       H              o          i                Os         ,
         0     0
   N      TlrN
                             0          , CH2NHI2, or CH2,NHC(O)(CH2).CO2H,
or, Z-(Y),-G;
R3 is H, provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R' and R2
may not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected fromt the group consisting of:
-N(R)-, -O- -S-, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl-. -thicalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
                                               8

      --      0-                 N-NH-]      0 NH-NH-j
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyt group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
0 is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0. or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5,
The invention comprises compounds of Formula 1:
wherein:
R' is H, or CH 2NH-(Y),-G;
R2 is H, or CH 2NI1-(Y),-G; provided that either R or R? must be 11, and further provided
that both R' and R2' may not be HIsimultaneously;
R is H;
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
o  is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1.
The invention comprises compounds of Formula I
                                               0  0
                                N                   N
                                                  rUOH
wherein R is H,          H         0                            0    O
         0    0
                      N
                               O      , CH2N12, or CH 2NHC(O)(CH2).CO2H:
                                              9

                                       O     O
                           O
                                   N NN
                                          H            NyOH
Ris H,          H             ,
         0     O
      N           N
      H                  N
                                         C) 2NH1  2, or CHNHC(O)CH2)mCO       2.I  provided
that either R1 or R2must be H, and further provided that both R and R2 may not be H
simultaneously;
R3 is H;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
In another embodiment of the invention:
                       0
R' is H,                      , or CH2NH2;
R2 i1,                      0 , or C1 2NH 2 ; provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and
further provided that both R' and R2 may not be 14 simultaneously;
R' is H;
m is 1 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3,4, or 5.
Another embodiment of the invention is a compound of Formula I which is:
                                                10

H)
                  NC
               </5               0
               NN
                   N   H
       HO
       HO N
                         ;Nor
               rN      NH2
                           or
   H%)      N
         -    \~        NH,
Ihe invention further provides conjugates of the above compounds with an immunogenic
carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is thus a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein:
                                           11

                                                      0     a
                      Oo             B
         0                            0 11
      N           N
                        N      N
                                       CHNH1     or CH 2 NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2      , Or
Z-(Y,-
   RiH       )G;
                                     O     O
                                                      6     0
                      N                            NO
Z is H         fH   m
         o 0
                           N
                                           2NH2, or CHNHC(
                                         ,CH
or, Z-(Y),'G;
R' is H, or W-(Y),G; provided that two of R'l, Roupust be H1, and further provided
that R', R2 and R may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4)-, -O-, -S, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl
   0          O             R4               1
            -_ -1                N-NH-|        -NH-NH-1
   OS ,       OR,
R" is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unnsubstituted
aryl group;
where ein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-(()-, alkyl, -amiinoalkyl, -t bioalkyl-. -eteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
                                             12

Y is an organic spacer group;
0 is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
m is 1,2, .,3 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2. 3, 4, or 5 and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein:
                                       0   0
                                   H I       N
                                             UOH
Ri               H                                     0            ,
         0    0
           H            N        N
                                '      , CHNH 2, or CHNHC(O)(CH 2)mCO2H. or Z(Y),G;
                                       0   0
                       0                  IN1N N
                            aH           nNlOH
R iss       H              o         i                 Os           ,
         0     0
   N      TlrN
                     N
                             0         , CH2NHI2, or CH2,NHC(O)(CH2).CO2H,
or, Z-(Y),-G;
R3 is H, provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R' and R2
                    11                         13
may not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected fromt the group consisting of:
-N(R')-, -O-- -S-, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thicalkyl-, -.heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
                                               13

      --      0-                  N-NH-]     0 NH-NH-J
  14     ,1   OA ,--              N
R is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyt group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
0 is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0. or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein:
R' is H, or CH 2NH-(Y),-G;
R2 is H, or CH 2NIH-(Y),-G; provided that either R or R? must be 11, and further provided
that both R' and R2 may not be HIsimultaneously;
R is H;
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
o  is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1; and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
                                              0   0
                              OOH
                                   \       H                          O
wherein R is H            H.,                                       0
         0    0
)      N          N
           H            N
                                0     , CH2NI2, or CH 2 NHC(O)(CH).CO2H:
                                              14

                                       O     O
                         N                   N 4-'               OH
  R2is H,        H             ,                       O
                                                       0      0
                        N          N
                                         0 C2NH 2, or CHNHC(())(CH2)nCO2.; provided
that either R or R2must be H, and further provided that both R and R may not be H
simultaneously;
R is H;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein:
                    0
 RI is H-,                   0 or CH2NH2;
                     N
R- isH,          H             , or CH2NH 2; provided that either R' or R must be 11, and
further provided that both R' and R2 may not be H4 simultaneously;
R, isH;
m is 1, 2,3,4,or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3,4, or 5; and an immunogenic carrier.
                                               15

Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of the
                       N
                            NN
                                          0
compound                                0
       HO
             N            0
       HO
              CN      NH2.
                0
                          ; or
H ' -        N
                        NH2
                             ; and an immunogenic carrier.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is any of the above conjugates wherein the
immunogenic carrier is a protein.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is any of the above conjugates, wherein said
protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin or bovine thyroglobulin.
                                            16

Another preferred embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of an immunogenic carrier
and a compound selected from the group consisting of
        0-
      HOH
                  N0
                                      and
       HO
                              0
           \aV 0>
        S      -L
Another preferred embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound selected
from the group consisting of:
HO           N
                              O     ; and
       HO
                  N(    H
                                  ;and a protein.
A more preferred embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a protein and a
compound selected from the group consisting of
                                          1I

H)
                 NC
               </5S
                                 0    ; and
            N          H
       HO
            N
               S             ~wherein said protein is keyhole limpet bemiocyanin,
ovalbumnin or bovine thyroglobulin.
The invention also provides products formed from the process of contacting the above
compounds with an immunogenic carrier.
     aN-/
Another embodiment of the invention is thus a product made by the process of contacting
a compound of Formula I
   R O     0
    COC1
Formula i
where in:
                                            18

                                                      0     a
                      Oo             B
         0                            0 11
      N           N
                        N      N
                                       CHNH1     or CH 2 NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2      , Or
Z-(Y,-
   RiH       )G;
                                     O     O
                                                      6     0
                      N                            NO
Z is H         fH   m
         o 0
                           N
                                           2NH2, or CHNHC(
                                         ,CH
or, Z-(Y),'G;
R' is H, or W-(Y),G; provided that two of R'l, Roupust be H1, and further provided
that R', R2 and R may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4)-, -O-, -S, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl
   0          O             R4               1
            -_ -1                N-NH-|        -NH-NH-1
   OS ,       OR,
R" is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unnsubstituted
aryl group;
where ein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-(()-, alkyl, -amiinoalkyl, -t bioalkyl-. -eteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
                                             19

Y is an organic spacer group;
0 is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2. 3, 4, or 5; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
wherein:
                                       H     0
                      N                  N         NN             OH
R is,            H                                       o     O      ,
         0    0
      N'           N                O
           H            N         N
                                       ) CH 2NH, or CH2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2 H, or Z(Y)pG:
                                       0    0
      2            OCNO                            N     %#       OH
                          NN
R isH1,                     O                            0     0
         0    0
      N            LN
                        tN        N
                                0        CH2 NH 2, or CH 2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H.
or, Z-(Y),-G;
R is H, provided that either R' or R' must be H, and further provided that both R' and R2
may not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R 4 )-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -hetcroalkvl-, -alkylcarbonyl-,
                                                20

   0          6               R4            O
 ~-:-~       -H -                 N-NH-]   2NH-NH-j
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyt group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
0 is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0. or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3. 4, or 5; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
wherein:
R' is H, or CH 2NIH-(Y)0 -G;
R2 is H, or CH 2NH-(Y),-G; provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further provided
that both R' and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
R'is H;
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
* is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
                                             21

                                              0    0
                                            N          N            y
wherein R isH                                                 O       O  ,
           0     O
         N           N
        NN                         N
                 HH                                  NOH
R is H,,      3,4,or                 0                    11
                                            NH2 or CHI2 NHC(O.)(CH2m)mCz;      poie
             N       N                 ,CH
                          0                 0
                          NN       N
                                 O     ,DCH12NH 2 or CH12NH C(O.)(CH12)mCO2H;: provided
that either R or R2 must be 11, and further provided that both R! and RW may not be Hi
simultaneously;
R'is H;
        H-,2, 3, 4,Hor 5;         orCLN
 mn isis1,
 R'
n is 1, 2,-3, 4, or 5; with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by~ the process of contacting a
compound of Formula I
wherein:
 R' is H,           H           , orC2N2
                                              22

                       0
R is H,          H          0 , Or CH12 NH 2 ; provided that either R' or R must be H. and
further provided that both R' and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
R is H;
i is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; with an immunogenic carrier.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting
any of the above compounds with an immunogenic carrier wherein the immunogenic
carrier is a protein.
A more preferred embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of
contacting any of the above compounds with an immunogenic carrier wherein the
immunogenic carrier is a protein and wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin.
ovalbumin or bovine thyroglobulin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
compound which is
    HO~J      N
       HOH
                                  P;
                                  O        or
        HO
                                                23

with an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
compound which is
HON
             CN
       HO                N      N
      HO
             NN
                               0  with a protein.
                N            N
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
compound wIch is
       H0JN0
        S    O
                 Q
       N
                                   or
HO'
           S
                                          24

with a protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, or bovine
thyroglobulin.
ABBREVIATIONS
Herein and throughout the application, the following abbreviations may be used.
AMAS                   N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester
BINAP                  2,2'-bis(diphenylphosphino)- 1. '-binapthyl
Boc or HOC             tert-butoxycarbonyl
BTG                    bovine thyroglobulin
Bu 3N                  tributylamine
DCC                    dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
DCM                    dichloromethape
DIEA                   diisopropylethylamine
DMF                    N,N-dimethylformamide
EDCI or EDC             1-(3-dirnethylaninopropyl)-3-ethylcarbodiinide hydrochloride
EDTA                   ethylenediaminetetraaceticacid
 IOBT or HOBt           I -hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate
KLH                    keyhole limpet berocyanin
Pd2(dba),              tris(dibenzylideneacetorie)dipalladium(O)
SATA                   N-succinimidyt S-acetylthioacetate
TEA or Et3N            triethylanine
THF                    tetrahydrofuran
TFA.                   trifluoroacetie acid
r.t.                   room temperature
DEAD                   diethylazodicarboxylate
DIC                    diisopropylcarbodiimide
NHS                    N-hydroxysuccinimide
TFP                    Tetrafluorophenyl
PNP                    p-nitrophenyl
TBTU                   O-(Benzotriazol-I-y)-N,N,N',N'
                       tetramethyluronium tctrafluoroborate
                                             25

DEPBT                   3-(diethoxvphosphoryoxy)- 1,2,3-benzotrazin-4(3H)-one
BOP-Cl                  Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic chloride
D IT                    dithiocrythritol
DEFINITIONS
The term "conjugate" refers to any substance formed from the joining together of separate
parts. Representative conjugates in accordance with the present invention include those
formed by the joining together of a small molecule, such as the compounds of Formula 1,
and a large molecule, such as a carrier or a polyamine polymer, particularly a protein. In
the conjugate the small molecule maybejoined at one or more active sites on the large
molecule.
The term "hapten" refers to a partial or incomplete antigen. A happen is a protein-free
substance, which is not capable of stimulating antibody formation, but which does react
with antibodies. The antibodies are formed by coupling a hapten to a high molecular
weight immunogenic carrier, and then injecting this coupled product, i.e., an immunogen,
into a human or animal subject.
The term "immunogen" refers to a substance capable of eliciting, producing. or
generating an immune response in an organism.
An "immunogenic carrier," as used herein, is an immunogenic substance, commonly a
protein, that can join at one or more positions with haptens, thereby enabling the
production of antibodies that can bind specifically with these haptens. Examples of
immunogcnic carrier substances include, but are not limited to, proteins, glycoproteins,
complex polyanino-polysaccharides, particles, and nucleic acids that are recognized as
foreign and thereby elicit an immunologic response from the host. The polyamino
polysaccharides may be prepared from polysaccharides using any of the conventional
means known for this preparation.
Various protein types may be employed as immunogenic carriers, including without
                                              26

limitation, albumins, scrum proteins, lipoproteins, etc. Illustrative proteins include bovine
serum albumin, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, egg ovalbumin, bovine thyroglobulin.
fraction V human serum albumin, rabbit albumin, pumpkin seed globulin, diphtheria
toxoid, tetanus toxoid, botilinus toxin, succinylated proteins, and synthetic
poly(aminoacids) such as polylysine.
Immunogenic carriers can also include poly amino-polysaccharides, which are a high
molecular weight polymer built up by repeated condensations of monosaccharides.
Examples of polysaccharides are starches, glycogen. cellulose, carbohydrate gums such
as gum arabic, agar, and so fbrth. The polysacebaride also contains poly(amino acid)
residues and/or lipid residues,
The immunogenic carrier can also be a poly(nucleic acid) ei other alone or conjugated to
one of the above mentioned poly(amino acids) or polysaccharides.
The immunogenic carrier can also include solid particles. The particles are generally at
least about 0.02 microns (pn) and not more than about 100 pu, and usually about 0.05
pm to 10 pm in diameter. The particle can be organic or inorganic, swellable or non
swellable., porous or non-porous, optimally of a density approximating water, generally
from about 0.7 to 1.5 g/mL, and composed of material that can be transparent, partially
transparent, or opaque. The particles can be biological materials such as cells and
microorganisms, including non-limiting examples such as erythrocytes, leukocytes,
lymphocytes, hybridomas, Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, E. col, and viruses.
 Ihe particles can also be comprised of organic and inorganic polymers, liposomes. latex,
phospholipid vesicles, or lipoproteins.
 Ihe term "derivative" refers to a chemical compound or molecule made from a parent
compound by one or more chemical reactions.
 The term "analogue" of a chemical compound refers to a chemical compound that
contains a chain of carbon atoms and the same particular functional groups as a reference

compound, but the carbon chain of the analogue is longer or shorter than that of the
reference compound.
A "label," "detector molecule," or "reporter" is any molecule which produces, or can be
induced to produce, a detectable signal. The label conjugated to an analyte, immunogen,
antibody, or to another molecule such as a receptor or a molecule that can bind to a
receptor such as a ligand, particularly a hapten or antibody. Non-limiting examples of
labels include radioactive isotopes (e.g., 1251), enzymes (e.g., p-galactosidase,
peroxidase), enzyme fragments, enzyme substrates, enzyme inhibitors, coenzymes,
catalysts, fluorophores (e.g,, rhodamine, fluorescein isothiocyanate or FliTC, or Dylight
649), dyes, chemiluminescers and luminescers (e.g., dioxetanes, luciferin), or sensitizers.
As used herein, a "spacer" refers to a portion of a chemical structure which connects two
or more substructures such as haptens, carriers, immunogens, labels or binding partners
through a functional linking group. These spacer groups are composed of the atoms
typically present and assembled in ways typically found in organic compounds and so
may be referred to as "organic spacing groups". The chemical building blocks used to
assemble the spacers will be described hereinafter in this application. Among the
preferred spacers are straight or branched, saturated or unsaturated carbon chains. These
carbon chains may also include one or more heteroatoms within the chain, one or more
heteroatoms replacing one or more hydrogens of any carbon atom in the chain, or at the
termini of the chains. By "heteroatoms" is meant atoms other than carbon which are
chosen from the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur, wherein
the nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur atoms may exist in any oxidation state and may
have carbon or other heteroatoms bonded to them. The spacer may also include cyclic or
aromatic groups as part of the chain or as a substitution on one of the atoms in the chain.
The number of atoms in the spacing group is determined by counting the atoms other
than hydrogen. The number of atoms in a chain within a spacing group is determined by
counting the number of atoms other than hydrogen along the shortest route between the
substructures being connected. Preferred chain lengths are between I to 20 atoms.
                                              28

A "functional linking group" refers to a reactive group that is present on a hapten and
may be used to provide an available reactive site through which the hapten portion may
be coupled to another moiety through formation of a covalent chemical bond to produce a
conjugate of a hapten with another moiety (such as a label or carrier). The hapten may be
linked in this way to a moiety such as biotin to form a competitive binding partner for the
hapten.
Spacer groups may be used to link the hapten to the carrier. Spacers of different lengths
allow one to attach the hapten with differing distances from the carrier for presentation to
the immune system of the animal or human being immunized for optimization of the
antibody formation process. Attachment to different positions in the hapten molecule
allows the opportunity to present specific sites on the hapten to the immune system to
influence antibody recognition. The spacer may contain hydrophilic solubilizing groups
to make the hapten derivative more soluble in aqueous media. Examples of hydrophilic
solubilizing groups include but are not limited to polyoxyalkyloxy groups, for example.
polyethylene glycol chains; hydroxyl, carboxylate and sulfonate groups.
The Lerm "nucleophilic group" or "nucleophile" refers to a species that donates an
electron-pair to form a chemical bond in a reaction. The term "electrophilic group" or
"electrophile" refers to a species that accepts an electron-pair from a nucleophile to form
a chemical bond in a reaction.
The term "substituted" refers to substitution of an atom or group of atoms in place of a
hydrogen atom on a carbon atom in any position on the parent molecule. Non limiting
examples of substituents include halogen atoms, amino, hydroxy, carboxy, alkyl, aryl,
heteroalkyl, heteroaryl, cyano, alkoxy, nitro, aldehyde and ketone groups.
The term "alkyl" refers to both linear and branched chain radicals of up to 12 carbon
atoms, unless otherwise indicated, and is specifically intended to include radicals having
any degree or level of saturation. Alkyl includes, but is not limited to, methyl, ethyl,
                                              29

propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, terl-butyl, pentyl, isopentyl, hexyl, isohexyl,
heptyl, octyl, 2,2,4-trimethylpentyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl and dodecyl.
 The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic
hydrocarbon ring radical composed of from 3 to 10 carbon atoms. Alkyl substituents
may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include cyclopropyl, 1,1 -dimethyl
cyclobutyl, 1,2,3-trimethylcyclopentyl, cyclohexyl and cyclohexenyl.
The term "heteroatom" refers to a nitrogen atom, an oxygen atom, a phosphorous atom or
a sulfur atom wherein the nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur atoms can exist in any
allowed oxidation states.
The term "heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group that includes one or more heteroatoms
within the chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more hydrogens of any
carbon atom in the chain, or at termini of the chains.
The term "heterocyclyf" refers to a nonaromatic (i.e. saturated or partially unsaturated)
ring composed of from 3 to 7 carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom selected from N,
o or S.  Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include
tetrahydrofuryL dihydropyranyl, piperidyl, 2,5-dimethypiperidyl, morpholinylt
piperazinylt thiomorpholinyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, pyrazolidinyl, pyrazolinyl,
imidazolidinyl and imidazolinyl.
The term "hydroxyalkyl" refers to at least one hydroxyl group bonded to any carbon atom
along an alkyl chain.
 The term "aminoalkyl" refers to at least one primary or secondary amino group bonded to
any carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
The term "alkoxyalkyl" refers to at least one alkoxy group bonded to any carbon atom
along an alkyl chain.
                                              30

 Ihe term "polyalkoxyalkyl" refers to long-chain alkoxy compounds and includes
polyethylene glycols of discreet or monodispersed sizes.
The term "thioalkyl" refers to at least one sulfur group bonded to any carbon atom along
an alkyl chain, The sulfur group may be at any oxidation state and includes sulfoxides,
sulfones and sulfates.
The term "carboxyalkyl" refers to at least one carboxylate group bonded to ally carbon
atom along an alkyl chain. The term "carboxylate group" includes carboxylic acids and
alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or aralkyl carboxylate esters.
The term "alkylcarbonyl" refers to a group that has a carbonyl group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain.The term "beteroaryl" refers to 5- to 7-membered
mono- or 8- to I0-inembered bicyclic aromatic ring radicals, any ring of which may
consist of from one to four heteroatoms selected from N, 0 or S where the nitrogen and
sulfur atoms can exist in any allowed oxidation state. Examples include benzimidazolyl,
benzothiazolyl, benzothienyl, bentoxazolyl, furyl, imidazoly], isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, quinolinyl, thiazolyl and
thienyl.
The term "heteroaralkyl" refers to a C   6 alkyl group having a heteroaryl substituent.
Examples include futylethyl and 2-quinoinylpropyl.
The term "alkoxy" refers to straight or branched chain radicals of up to 12 carbon atoms,
unless otherwise indicated, bonded to an oxygen atom. Examples include methoxy,
ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy and butoxy.
The term "aryl" refers to monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring radicals containing from 6
to 12 carbons in the ring. Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring.
Examples include phenyl, biphenyl and napththalene.
                                              31

The term "aralkyl" refers to a Cu- alkyl group containing an aryl substituent. Examples
include benzyl, phenyiethyl or 2-naphthylmethyl.
The term "heteroaralkyl" refers to a CI-6 alkyt group containing a heteroaryl substituent.
Examples include furylmethyl and pyridylpropyl.
The term "aryloxy" refers to an oxygen atom bound to an aryl substituent. Examples
include phenoxy and benzyloxy.
The Lerm "arylalkoxy" refers to an alkoxy group bound to an aryl substituent. Examples
include phenylmethyl ether.
The term "acyl" refers to the group -C(O)l,, where Ra is alkyl, aryl, aralkyl. heteroaryl
and heteroaralkyl. An "acylating agent" adds the -C(O)Ra group to a molecule.
The term "sulfonyl" refers to the group S(O)2R, where R. is hydrogen, alkyl,
cycloalkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, beteroaryl and heteroaralkyl. A "sulfonylating agent"
adds the S(OhRa group to a molecule.
Spacers bearing reactive functional linking groups for the attachment of haptens to carrier
moieties may be prepared by a wide variety of methods. The spacer may be formed using
a molecule that is differentially ftnctionalizcd or activated with groups at either end to
allow selective sequential reaction with the hapten and the carrier but the same reactive
moiety may also be used at both ends. The groups selected for reaction with the hapten
and the functional linking group to be bound to the carrier are determined by the type of
functionality on the hapten and the carrier that the hapten is to be bonded with. Spacers
and methods of attachment to haptens and carriers include but are not limited to those
described by Brinkley, M., A., Bioconjugate Chern. 1992, 3:2-13, Hermanson, Greg T.,
Bioconjugate Techniques,.Acadcmic Press, London, Amsterdam, Burlington, MA, USA,
2008 and Thermo Scienlific Pierce Crosslinking Technical Handbook; available for
                                              32

download or hard copy request from Therno Scientific 3747 N Meridian Rd, Rockford,
IL USA 61101, ph 800-874-3723 or at: http://www.nierccnet.com/ and references
within. Many differentially activated molecules for formation of spacer groups are
commercially available from vendors, for example Thermo Scientific.
For haptens bearing an amino group, modes of attachment of the spacer to the hapten
include reaction of the amine on the hapten with a spacer building block bearing an acyl
halide or active ester. "Active esters" are defined as esters that undergo reaction with a
nucleophilic group, for example an amino group, under mild conditions to form a stable
linkage. A stable linkage is defined as one that remains intact under conditions of further
use, for example subsequent synthetic steps, use as an immunogen, or in a biochemical
assay. A preferred example of a stable linkage is an amide bond. Active esters and
methods of formation are described by Benoiton, NL., in Houben-Wevi, Methods of
Organic Chemisty, Thieme Stuttgart, New York, vol E22 section 3.2:443 and Benoiton,
N .L., Chemistry ofPeptide Synthesis, Taylor and Francis, NY, 2006. Preferred active
esters include p-nitrophenyl ester (PNP), N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NIIS) and
tetrafluorophenyl ester (TEP). Acyl halides may be prepared by many methods known to
one skilled in the art for example, reaction of the carboxylic acid with thionyl chloride or
oxalyl chloride, see: Fieser, L.F. and Fieser; M. Reagentsfoir Organic Synthesis, John
Wiley and Sons, NY, 1967 and references within. These may be converted to other active
esters such as p-nitrophenyl esters (PNP) which may also be used in active bi-functional
spacers as described by Wu etal, Oiganic Letters, 2004 ,6 (24):4407. N
hydroxysuccinimide (NIS) esters may be prepared by reaction ofN,N-disuccinimidyl
carbonate (CAS 74124-79-1) with the carboxylic acid of a compound in the presence of
an organic base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylaminc in an aprotic solvent
under anhydrous conditions as described in Example 35 of W02012012595 or by using
N-hydroxysuccinimide and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) or other dehydrating agent,
under anhydrous conditions. Tetrafluorophenyl esters (TFP) may be prepared by reaction
of carboxylic acids with 2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyttrifluoroacetate in the presence of an
organic base such as triethylarnine or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent tinder
anhydrous conditions as reported by Wilbur, etal, Bioconjugate Chem., 2004,5(l):203.
                                              33

One skiled in the art will recognize that spacers shown in Table 1, among others, can be
obtained uing, known methods an~d attached to arnino-bcaring haptens utilIizinfg routine
optimization of reaction conditions. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a
thiol group on a earnier.
TIable I
   0       0                                    0
          N                                         -N
                 00                                   0         0
  o                                    0
               N-C                                N-C
           0               H
             o0                                      0
                          o                     0
                    j\      N>                     N
      N-O0
                            o00
                 0                              o
             0                                         0
     X+          0
         00                                      0 0Y
        o~                         N>
                 0C
                       ------
                ------------     ------ -- 4

Direct coupling of the amine on the hapten and a carboxvlic acid functionality on the
spacer building block in the presence of a coupling agent may also be used as a mode of
attachment. Preferred reagents are those typically used in peptide synthesis. Peptide
coupling reagents include but are not limited to O-(Benzotriazol-I-yl)-N,N,N',N'
tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU, CAS #125700-67-6), see: Pruhs, S., Org.
Process. Res. Dev. 2006, 10:441; N-Hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT, CAS #2592-95-2)
with a carbodiimide dehydrating agent, for example N-N-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
(DCC), diisopropylcarbodiimide (DIC), or I-ethyl-3(3
dimnethylaminopropyl)carbodiimidehydrochoride (EDC), see: K6nig W., Geiger, R.
Chem. Ber., 1970, /03 (3):788 ; 3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)-1,2,3-benzotrazin-4(3H)-one
(DEPBT, CA S#165534-43-0), see: Liu, H. et.at, Chinese Chemical Leuers, 2002,
13(7):601; Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyi)phosphonic chloride; (BOP-Cl , CAS# 68641-49-6),
see: Diago-Meseguer, J et.al. Synthesis., 1980, 7:547-5I and others described in detail by
Benoiton in Chemistry ofPeptide Synthesis, CRC Press, Boca Raton. FL, 2005, Chapter
2, and the technical bulletin provided by Advanced Automated Peptide Protein
Technologies (aapptec). 6309 Shepardsville Rd., Louisville KY 40228, ph 888 692 9111;
www.aaonteecom.. and references within, These methods create a stable amide linkage
attaching the hapten to the spacer. Examples of spacers that can be obtained using known
methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing routine optimization of reaction
conditions employing the methods described and cited above are shown, but not limited
to those in Table 2. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a thiol group on a
carrier.
Table 2
    o                              0                              0
     N      COH                     NCA2H         1                          CO 2H
reasonable range for n is
between 1-10
                                             3-5

Spacers may also be constructed in a step-wise fashion by sequential attachment of
appropriate chemical groups to the hapten including the step of forming the functional
linking group that is capable of binding to the carrier. See illustrative examples under
General Reaction Schemes.
Additionally, when the hapten has a nucleophilic group, for example a thiol group, an
amino group or a hydroxyl group which will become the point of attachment of the
spacer, the spacer may also be constructed by alkylation of the thiol, amine or hydroxyl
group. Any alkyl group that is appropriately substituted with a moiety capable of
undergoing a substitution reaction, for example, an alkyl halide, or sulfonic acid ester
such as p-Toluenesulfonate, may be used to attach the spacer. Many examples of
alkylation reactions are known to one skilled in the art and specific examples may be
found in the general chemical literature and optimized through routine experimentation.
A discussion of alkylation reactions with many references can be found in Chapter 10 of
March 's A danced Organic, Chemistry. Smith, M.B., and March, ., John Wiley & Sons,
Inc, NY, 2001. Other linkages may also be employed such as reaction of the nucleophilic
moiety, for example an amine, on the hapten with an isocyanate to form a urea or
reaction with an isothiocyanate to form a thiourea linkage, see: Li, Z., et.al., Phosphorus,
Suliir and Silicon and the Related Elements, 2003, 178(2):293-297. Spacers may be
attached to haptens bearing hydroxyl groups via reaction with isocyanate groups to form
carbamate or urethane linkages. The spacer may be differentially activated with the
isocyanate functional group on one end and a functional linking group capable of reacting
with the carrier, see: Annunziato, ME., Patel, U.S.- Ranade, M. and Palumbo, P.S.,
Bioconjugate Chem., 1993. 4:212-218.
For haptens bearing a carboxylic acid group, modes of attachment of a spacer portion to
the hapten include activation of the carboxylic acid group as an acyl halide or active
ester, examples of which are shown in Table 3, preparation of which are described
previously, followed by reaction with an amino (-NH 2-), hydrazino (-NH-NHr-),
hydrazido (-C(O)-NH-NH 2 -) or hydroxyl group (-OH) on the spacer portion to form an
amide. hydrazide, diacylhydrazine or ester linkage, or direct coupling of the carboxylic
                                              36

acid group with an amino group on the spacer portion or directly on the carrier with a
peptide coupling reagent and/or carbodiimide dehydrating reagent, described previously,
examples of which are shown in Tables 4 and 5. Procedures found in references cited
previously for formation of activated esters and use of peptide coupling agents may be
employed for attachment of carboxylic acid-bearing haptens to spacer building blocks
and protein carriers with available amino groups utilizing routine optimization of reaction
conditions.
Table 3
                                0      0                  1-       x     0NO                ,
               N-OO3            NlN --      F         F
                   0                 0                    X=CI, Br
                                            F         F Acyl           PNP
Sulfo NHS and NIS                          TFP            chloride
Table 4
            N              RN'P'OEt               N-P -                        NBF4
  C    CN           N'                Et      0)  NN(CH!
                                    '                                        IIC        3)2
             OHN                                                             O
[HOBT               DEPT                     BOP-Cl                               N(CH3)2
                                                                     TBTU
Table 5
>_NNNCN
                             Q - 0j    NON                                NC
                                                                          H>C1     eh
diisopropytcarbodiimide      Dicyclohexylcarbodiinid            NCN             1-ethyl
(DIC)                        (DCC)                          3(3-dimethylaminopropyl)
                                                            carbodiimide.HCI (EDC)
Other electrophilic groups may be present on the hapten to attach the spacer, for example,
a sulfonyl halide
                                             37

   0
  -   I
   0
or electrophilic phosphorous group, for example:
  -9-c
   0Rc
See: Malachowski, William P., Coward, James K., Journal of Organic Chemistry, 1994,
59 (25):7616
or:
  -P-OR,
    OR,
Re is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, aralkyl.
See: Aliouane, L., et.al, Tetrahedron Letters, 2011, 52(28):8681.
Haptens that bear aidehyde or ketone groups may be attached to spacers using methods
including but not limited to reaction with a hydrazide group H2N-NT-C(O)- on the spacer
to form an acyihydrazone, see: Chamow, SM.,          Kogan, T.P., Peers. D.H., Hastings, R.C.,
Bym, R.A. and Askcnaszi, A., J. Riot. Chem., 1992, 267(22): 15916. Examples of
bifunctional hydrazide spacer groups that allow attachment to a thiol group on the carrier
are shown in Table 6.
Table 6
                      0                                 0
    o                      NHNH9
     N                                                           NHNH 2
    0
Haptens may also contain thiol groups which may be reacted with the carrier provided
that the carrier has been modified to provide a group that may react with the thioL Carrier
groups may be modified by methods including but not limited to attachment of a group
containing a malcimide functional group by reaction of an amino group on the carrier
with N-Succinimidyl malcimidoacetate, (AMAS, CAS# 55750-61-3), Succinimidyl
                                                38

iodoacetate (CAS# 151199-81-4), or any of the bifunctional spacer groups shown in
Table I to introduce a group which may undergo a reaction resulting in attachment of the
hapten to the carrier.
The functional linking group capable of forming a bond with the carrier may be any
group capable of forming a stable linkage and may be reactive to a number of different
groups on the carrier. The functional linking group may preferably react with an amino
group, a carboxylic acid group or a thiol group on the carrier, or derivative thereof. Non
limiting examples of the functional linking group are a carboxylic acid group, acyl halide.
active ester (as defined previously), isocyanac, isothiocyanate, alkyl halide, amino
group, thiol group. maleimide group, acrylate group (H2C=CH-C(O)-) or vinyl sulfone
group H2C=CH-SO 2-) See: Park, J.W.. et.al,.BioconjugateChem, 2012, 23(3): 350. The
functional linking group may be present as part of a differentially activated spacer
building block that may be reacted stepwise with the hapten and the resulting hapten
derivative may then be reacted with the carrier. Alternatively, the hapten may be
derivatized with a spacer that bears a precursor group that may be transformed into the
functional linking group by a subsequent reaction. When the functional linking group on
the spacer is an amine or a carboxylic acid group, the coupling reaction with the
carboxylic acid group or amine on the carrier may be carried out directly through the use
of peptide coupling reagents according to procedures in the references cited above for
these reagents,
Particular disulfide groups, for example, pyridyldisulfides, may be used as the functional
linking group on the spacer which may undergo exchange with a thiol group on the
carrier to from a mixed disulfide linkage, see: Ghetie, V., e al., Bioconjugate Chem.
1990, 1:24-31 These spacers may be attached by reaction of the amine-bearing hapten
with an active ester which is attached to a spacer bearing the pyridyldisulfide group,
examples of which include but are not limited to those shown in Table 7.
Table 7
                                             39

                                                   S N                       S   N
                                                                          S'r
  Na0  3S                  N'
                      0
                  0           0
 0                                                     0
       0                                                    o
Most often the carrier is a protein and the e-amino groups of the lysine residues may be
used for attachment, either directly by reaction with an amine-reactive functional linking
group or after derivitization with a thiol-containing group, including N-Succinimidyl S
Acetylthioacetate, (SATA, CAS 76931-93-6), or an analogue thereoffollowed by
cleavage of the actetate group with hydroxylanine to expose the thiol group for reaction
with the fuctional linking group on the hapten. Thiol groups may also be introduced into
the carrier by reduction of disutfide bonds within protein carriers with mild reducing
reagents including but not limited to 2-mercaptoethylamine, see: Bilah, M., eal.,
Bioelectrochemistry,2010, 80(1):49. phosphine reagents, see: Kirley, TL., Ana4tical
Biochemistry, 1989, 180(2):231 or dithioerythritol (DTT, CAS 3483-12-3) Cleland,
W.Biochemistry, 1964, 3:480-482.
GENERAL REACTION SCHEMES
Representative compounds of the present invention can be synthesized in accordance
with the general synthetic methods described below, Compounds of Formula (I) can be
prepared by methods known to those who are skilled in the art. The following reaction
schemes are only meant to represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant
to be a limit of the invention.
Derivatives of quetiapine may be prepared by a number of methods. The primary
hydroxyl group in quetiapine, the starting compound (RI and R2 = H) shown in Scheme 1,
may be acylated using, for example, succinic anhydride and the method described by
                                              40

Fiedler, Ii., et.al., Langnuir, 1994, 10:3959. The resulting acid may be further
functionalized as described elsewhere within this disclosure or attached directly to a
carrier using any number of aforementioned methods including those shown in the
subsequent examples.
Scheme I
                                                        0
     HO      0                     9        HO2 C          O     0
                 N    R2
                                                                        R2
             N                     0N
        N-.
                                                             N
               $      RI
                                                                       Rt
The Primary hydroxyl group of quetiapine may also be alkylated to form an ether
according to the procedure of US20100069356, as shown in Scheme 2, using an alkyl
halide or a sulfonate ester, such as 4-bromomethylpentanoate in the presence of
tetrabutylamonium hydrogensulfate and aqueous sodium hydroxide to provide an acid
which may be used as described above.
Scheme 2
                                           MeO2 C
     HO     O-                                             O     O
                 N            CO2 Me                               N
                                        Br                       N     R2
             N           2
          N                                                    N
Schme 3
                                              41

    HO         N                                     HO      -N        O    0
            N         NH 2    O          O                  N                  OH
               N-                                        N           H
Compounds of Formula I where R2 is CH2NHC(O)(CH 2)COAH may be made according
to Scheme 3. Reaction of 2-(2-(2-(aninomethyl)-4-(dibenzo[b,fjl1,4]thiazepin-11
yl)piperazin -- yl)cthoxy)ethanol, prepared as described in Example 1, proceeds with a
cyclic anhydride compound, such as succinic anhydride or glutaric anhydride, in a
solvent such as pyridine, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 60 *C, for
about 48 hours. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the same chemistry may be
used to create compounds of Formula I where R' is CH2NHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H.
Scheme 4
    HO      O
           (-         N         OH                NN
       N              H               DIEA, diethyl cyanophosphonate
                                      2. TFA
                                                     n    DIEA
    HO      0
       N=              H              N          OH
                                           0
                                             42

                                                0   O
                                                            N          OH
Compounds of Formula I where R is                             0     0      may be made
according to Scheme 4. Compounds of Formula 1. where R2 is
CH 2NHC(O)(CH2)mC02H, prepared as described in scheme 1, are treated with N
butoxycarbonylpiperazine, diethyl cyanophosphonate, and a base, such as
diisopropylethylamine. The reaction is carried out in a solvent, such as diebloromethane,
for about 2 hours at room temperature. Deprotection of the piperazinyl group is
accomplished with trifluoroacetic anhydride as described in Scheme 4, followed by
reaction with an appropriate anhydride, such as succiriic anhydride or malcic anhydride,
in the presence of a suitable base such as diisopropylethylanine. Those skilled in the art
will recognize that the same chemistry may be used to create compounds of Formula I
                                  HOH
where R is                              0 O
Scheme 5
   HO      O0
      HN                       0~              OH
                                NH(CH 2)mCq
                               0              o             N-                           0N
                      NH2-O'TEA,     0CM, r t
                     NH,
                                                                                 0
                                                          C0
Compounds of Formula I where R' is                   o0 may be made according to
Scheme 5.    The maleimidc may be introduced by any method known in the art.
Maleimide finctionalzing groups such as 2.5-dioxopyrrolidin-l-yI 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5
dihydro-IlH-pyrrobl-vl)acetate where i is E, may be used in a solvent such as DMF or
                                              43

CH 2 Cl, and a base, such as tributylamine or triethylaminc Alternatively, the
deprotected piperazinyl group described in Scheme 4 may be elaborated with a
malcimide functionality, as described in Scheme 5 to give compounds of Formula I
                    0    0
                  N               N
where R' is                                0        Those skilled in the art will recognize
that the same chemistry may be used to create compounds of Formula I where R is
                               0    0
                       NN
                0
                    or                            0         .
Scheme 6
                                                        S   CH,
              PROTEIN-NH 2                                0
                                      2.     H2N-OH
                                                                0
               PROTEIN-j           SH                                  OUETIAPINE
                           H
                                       00
                                 E>      t           HN-PROTEIN
               QUETIAPIN
                                              44

                                                                  0
                                                               0
Maleimide fictionalized haptens wherein R' or R' is                    0 may be
conjugated to proteins according to the method shown in Scheme 6. Activation of
protein lysine residues by acylation of the epsilon-nitrogen with N-succinimidyl S
acetylthioacetate (SATA), followed by subsequent hydrolysis of the S-acetyl group with
hydroxylamine produces a nucieophilic stilfliydryI group. Conjugation of the sulflivdryl
activated protein with the maleimide derivatized bapten (prepared as described in general
scheme 3) proceeds via a Michael addition reaction. Suitable proteins arc known to those
skilled in the art and include keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and
ovalbumin. The same methodology may be used to conjugate proteins to maleimide
                                                   0   0
                                                 NN
                                                           tN~N
                                                                  0O;
functionalized haptens where R or R2 is                                       .
Scheme 7:
                                               O0
        0    0                             N-OH                0    O
                   HO QUTIAINE            O             9N   ON'QUETIAPINE
   HOfisg$ N '-QUEIAPINE                  a
               mH                                       0
                                     DCC/DMF
                                        0   0
     PROTEIN-NH2           PROTEIN,       tt-    N'QUETAPINE
                                     H       M  H
Carboxylic acid fuinetionalized haptzns, wheicin R' or R2 is CH2NHC(O)(CH2)mC0      2H,
may be conjugated to proteins according to the method shown in Scheme 7. Reaction
with N-hydroxysuccinimide and a suitable coupling agent, such as
dicyclobexylcarbodiimide, and a base, such as tributyl amine, in a solvent such as DMF,
                                              45

at a temperature of about 20 'C, for about 18 hrs activates the carboxylic acid with the
hydroxypyrrolidine-2,5-dionc leaving group. The activated linker and hapten may then
be conjugated to a protein in a solvent, such as a pH 75 phosphate buffer, at about 20 *C,
for about 2.5 hours. Suitable proteins are known to those skilled in the art and include
keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and ovalbumin. The same
methodology may be used to conjugate proteins to carboxylic acid functionalized haptens
                            0    0
                         N           N
                         H    K            N>          OH
where R' or R2 is                                0        .
ANTIBODY PRODUCTION
The conjugates above are used for the production of antibodies which bind the anti
psychotic drug to which they were generated (quetiapine). These antibodies can be used
in assays to detect the presence andlor amount of the anti-psychotic drug in patient
samples. Such detection permits therapeutic drug monitoring enabling all of the benefits
thereof. Detection of levels of anti-psychotic drugs may be useful for many purposes,
including: detection in combination with the detection of other anti-psychotic drugs,
including those selected from the group consisting of risperidone, paliperidone,
aripiprazole, olanzapine, and metabolites thereof, such detection permitting the
simultaneous measurement of these anti-psychotic drugs; determination of patient
adherence or compliance with prescribed therapy; use as a decision tool to determine
whether a patient should be converted from an oral anti-psychotic regimen to a long
acting injectable anti-psychotic regimen; use as a decision tool to determine if the dose
level or (losing interval of oral or injectable anti-psychotics should be increased or
decreased to ensure attainment or maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels; use as
an aid in the initiation of anti-psychotic drug therapy by providing evidence of the
attainment of minimum pK levels; use to determine bioequivalence of anti-psychotic
drug in multiple formulations or from multiple sources; use to assess the impact of
polypharmacy and potential drug-drug interactions; and use as an indication that a patient
                                                46

should be excluded from or included in a clinical trial and as an aid in the subsequent
monitoring of adherence to clinical trial medication requirements.
Having provided the conjugates of the subject invention, which comprise the compounds
herein and an immunogenic carrier, antibodies can be generated, e.g., polyclonal,
monoclonal, chimeric, and humanized antibodies, that bind to the anti-psychotic drug.
Such antibodies that are particularly contemplated include monoclonal and polyclonal
antibodies as well as fragments thereof- e.g., recombinant proteins, containing the
antigen-binding domain and/or one or more complementarity determining regions of
these antibodies. Preferably, the antibody will bind to the drug and any desired
pharmacologically active metabolites. By altering the location of the attachment of an
immunogenic carrier in a drug conjugate, selectivity and cross-reactivity with metabolites
and/or related drugs can be engineered into the antibodies. For quetiapine, cross
reactivity with quetiapine metabolites such as N-desalkylquetiapine (norquetiapine),
quatiapine sulfoxide, O-desalkylquetiapine or 7-hydroxy quetiapine may or may not be
desirable. Antibodies may be generated that detect multiple ones of these drugs and/or
metabolites, or antibodies may be generated that detect each separately (thus defining the
antibody "specific binding" properties). An antibody specifically binds one or more
compounds when its binding of the one or more compounds is equimolar or substantially
equimolar.
Methods of producing such antibodies comprise inoculating a host with the conjugate
(the compound and the immunogenic carrier being an immunogen) embodying features
of the present invention. Suitable hosts include, but are not limited to, mice, rats,
hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, chickens, donkeys, horses, monkeys, chimpanzees,
orangutans, gorillas, humans, and any species capable of mounting a mature immune
response. The immunization procedures are well established in the art and are set forth in
numerous treatises and publications including "The finurnioassayHandbook", 2nd
Edition, edited by David Wild (Nature Publishing Group, 2000) and the references cited
therein.
                                              47

Preferably, an immunogen embodying features of the present invention is administered to
a host subject, e.g., an animal or human, in combination with an adjuvant. Suitable
adjuvants include, but are not limited to, Freund's adjuvant, powdered aluminum
hydroxide (alum), aluminum hydroxide together with Bordetellapertussis, and
monophosphoryl lipid A-synthetic trehalose dicorynomycolate (MPL-TDM).
Polyclonal antibodies can be raised in a mammalian host by one or more injections of an
imnmnogen which can optionally be administered together with an adjuvant. Typically,
an immunogen or a combination of an immunogen and an adjuvant is injected into a
mammalian host by one or multiple subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injections.
Preferably, the immunization program is carried out over at least one week, and more
preferably, over two or more weeks. Polyclonal antibodies produced in this manner can
be isolated and purified utilizing methods well know in the art.
Monoclonal antibodies can be produced by the well-established hybridoma methods of
Kohler and Milstein, e.g.Nature 256:495-497 (1975). Hybridoma methods typically
involve immunizing a host or lymphocytes from a host, harvesting the monoclonal
antibody secreting or having the potential to secrete lymphocytes, fusing the lymphocytes
to immortalized cells, and selecting cells that secrete the desired monoclonal antibody.
A host can be immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing
antibodies specific for an immunogen. Alternatively, the lymphocytes can be immunized
in viW.   If human cells are desired, peripheral blood lymphocytes can be used, although
spleen cells or lymphocytes from other mammalian sources are preferred.
The lymphocytes can be fused with an immortalized cell line to form hybridoma cells, a
process which can be facilitated by the use of a fusing agent, e.g.. polyethylene glycol.
By way of illustration. mutant rodent, bovine, or human myeloma cells immortalized by
transformation can be used. Substantially pure populations ofhybridoma cells, as
opposed to unfused immortalized cells, are preferred. Thus, following fusion, the cells
can be grown in a suitable medium that inhibits the growh or survival of unfiused,
                                              48

immortalized cells, for example, by using mutant myeloma cells that lack the enzyme
hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferasc (HGPRT). In such an instance,
hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine can be added to the medium (HAT medium)
to prevent the growth of HGPRT-deficient cells while permitting hybridomas to grow.
Preferably, immortalized cells fuse efficiently, can be isolated from mixed populations by
selection in a medium such as HAT, and support stable and high-level expression of
antibody following fusion. Preferred immortalized cell lines include nycloma cell lines
available from the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA.
Because hybridoma cells typically secrete antibody exuacellularly, the culture media can
be assayed for the presence of monoclonal antibodies specific for the anti-psychotic drug.
Immunoprecipitation of in vitro binding assays, for example, radiioimmunoassay (RIA)
or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). can be used to measure the binding
specificity of monoclonal antibodies.
Monoclonal antibody-secreting hybridoma cells can be isolated as single clones by
limiting dilution procedures and sub-cultured. Suitable culture media include, but are not
limited to, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium, RPMN1-1640. and polypeptide-free,
polypeptide-reduced, or serum-free media, e.g., Ultra DOMA PF or IL-1, available from
Biowhittaker, Walkersville, MD. Alternatively, the hybridoma cells can be grown in vivo
as ascites.
Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and'or purified from a culture medium or ascites
fluid by conventional immunoglobulin (Ig) purification procedures including, but not
limited to, polypeptide A-SEPHAROSE, hydroxylapatite chromatography, gel
electrophoresis, dialysis, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and affinity chromatography.
Monoclonal antibodies can also be produced by recombinant methods such as are
described in U.S. Patent No. 4,166,452. DNA encoding monoclonal antibodies can be
isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures, e.g., using oligonucleotide probes
                                             49

that specifically bind to murine heavy and light antibody chain genes, preferably to probe
DNA isolated from monoclonal antibody hybridoma cells lines secreting antibodies
specific for anti-psychotic drugs.
IMMUNOASSAYS
 Ihc antibodies thus produced can be used in immunoassays to recognize/bind to the anti
psychotic drug, thereby detecting the presence and/or amount of the drug in a patient
sample. Preferably, the assay format is a competitive immunoassay format. Such an
assay format and other assays are described, among other places. in Hampton et al.
(SerologicalMethods. A Laboratory Manual, APS Press, St. Paul, MN 1990) and
Maddox etal. (J. Erp. Med. 158:12111 ,1983).
A reagent kit can also be provided comprising an antibody as described above. A
representative reagent kit may comprise an antibody that binds to the anti-psychotic drug,
quetiapine. a complex comprising an analog of an anti-psychotic drug or a derivative
thereof coupled to a labeling moiety, and may optionally also comprise one or more
calibrators comprising a known anout of an anti-psychotic drug or a related standard.
As noted above, reagent kits may comprise calibrators and'or control materials which
comprise a known amount of the analyte to be measured. The concentration of the
analyte can be calculated by comparing results obtained for a sample with resulted
obtained for a standard. A calibration curve can be constructed and used for relating the
sets of results and for determining the concentration of an analyte in a sample.
Any sample that is suspected of containing an analyte, e.g.., an anti-psychotic drug. can be
analyzed in accordance with the methods of the presently preferred embodiments. The
sample can be pretreated if desired and can be prepared in any convenient medium that
does not interfere with the assay. Preferably, the sample comprises an aqueous medium
such as a body fluid from a host, most preferably plasma or serum.
                                             50

Copending applications entitled "Haptens of Aripiprazole" (Attorney Docket No.
PRD3265USPSP, first named inventor: Remmerie, "Haptens of Olanzapine" (Attorney
Docket No. PRD3266USPSP, first named inventor: Remmeric), "Haptens of
Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3267USPSP, first named inventor: Remmeric),
"Haptens of Quetiapine" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3268USPSP, first named inventor:
Remmeric), "Haptens of Risperidone and Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No.
PRD3269USPSP, first named inventor: Remmerie), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole Haptens
and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No. CDS5128USPSP, first named inventor:
Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Olanzpine Haptens and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket
No. CDS5] 32USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Paliperidone
Happens and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS5I26USPSP, first named inventor:
Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Quetiapine Haptens and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No.
CDS51 34USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Risperidone
Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No. CDS5l 30USPSP, first named inventor:
Iryhorenko), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5129USPSP. first named inventor: Hryhorenko). "Antibodies to Olanzapine and Use
Thereof" (Attorney Docket No, CDSS1 33USPSP, first named inventor: Iryhorenko),
"Antibodies to Paliperidone and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS5I 27USPSP,
first named inventor:    Hryborenko), "Antibodies to Quetiapine and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5135USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies
to Risperidone and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS5131 USPSP, first named
inventor: Hryhorenko), all filed concurrently herewith are all incorporated herein by
reference in their entireties.
EXAMPLES
Representative compounds of the present invention can be synthesized in accordance
with the general synthetic methods described below. Compounds of Formula (I) can be
prepared by methods known to those who arc skilled in the art. The following examples
are only meant to represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant to be a
limit of the invention.
                                             51

 Example I
2-(2-(2-(aninomethy1)-4-(dibenzofb,fl[1,4)thiazepin-1I-yI)piperazin-      -yl)ethoxy)ethanol
Step A
Piperazine-2-carbonitrile
   H     <N
   N      /
   N
   H
A stirred solution of tetrahydrofuran (300 mL) and ethylenediamine (108.2 g) at 30 C
was treated dropwise with 2-chloroacrylonitrile (105.0 g) over a period of 2 hours and
stirred for 6 additional hours at 30 'C. The reaction mixture was cooled to 20 *C and a
precipitate fomied. The reaction was filtered, and the filtrate was adjust pH to 4 by
adding 35% hydrochloric acid. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration. The
combined precipitates were dissolved in 20% hydrochloric acid solution and then poured
into T HF solution to precipitate the title compound, which was dried under reduced
pressure and used in the next reaction without additional purification. 'H NMR: (D20.,
400 MHz): 8 (ppm) 5.00-4.97 (in, I f), 3.79 (d, J=4.8 Hz, 2H), 3.62-3.44 (in, 4H).
Step B
tert-Butyl 3-cyanopiperazine- I -carboxylate
      H        N
      N      /
      N
To a solution of compound piperazine-2-carbonitrile. prepared as described in the
previous step, (90.6 g, 0,492 mol) was added triethylaine (206 ml., 1.476 mol) and
Boc 20 (117 g, 0.542 mol). The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
overnight, and then concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography
to provide the title compound.
                                              52

 H NMR: (CDCI3 , 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 4.06-3.91 (in, 311), 3.28-2.83 (m,4H), 1.47 (s,
91H).
Step C
tert-Butyl 3-cvano-4(-(2--hydroxyethoxy~ethyl)piperazine- I -carboxylate
 HO             N
                ON      NS0
A solution of tert-butyl 3-cyanopiperazine-l-carboxylate, prepared as described in the
previous step, (10 g, 0.047 mol) and 2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)acctaldehvde (14.8 g) (see:
Bodin, A.,Contaci Dermatitis, 2001,44:207) in dichloromethane was treated with formic
acid (12.7 g), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Sodium
cyanoborohydride (7.2 g, 0. 18mo[) was added in portions. The reaction mixture was
stirred at room temperature for 3 hours followed by the addition of water and extraction
with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with brine, dried over sodium
sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. The crude product was purified by column
chromatography to provide the product,
 H NMR: (CDCI3 , 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 4.15 (s, If), 3.69-3.63 (n, 4H), 3.58 (d, J=-4.4 Liz,
211), 3.47-3.44 (m, 4H) , 2.61 (d, J=5.2 Hz, 2H), 2.51-2.48 (in, 4H), 1.43 (s. 9H).
Step D
tert-Butyl 3-(aninomethyl)-4-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)ethvl)piperazine-I -carboxylate
            H2NN             O
 HOwn,9             N
To a solution of tert-butyl 3-cyano-4-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)ethyl)piperazine- I
carboxylate, prepared as described in the previous step, (9.9 g, 33.1 mmol) in methanol
(20 mL) was added Raney Ni (15 g). The reaction solution was stirred at room
temperature overnight under hydrogen atmosphere (50 psi). The mixture was filtered and
                                              53

concentrated to provide the product, which was used in the next step without additional
purification.
ESI-MS (M+1): 304 calc. for CTH,N      30 4 303.
Step E
tert-Butyl 4-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)cthyl)-3-((2,2,2-trifluoroacetanido)methyl)pipcrazine
1-carboxylate
              F
           F     F
          O     NH       NOk
                        N    O
To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(aminomethyl)-4-(2-(2-hydroxycthoxy)ethyl)piperazine-.1
carboxylate, prepared as described in the previous step (8.8 g) in diclioromethane (100
mL) was added triethylamine (8.8 g, 87.0 mmol) and trifluoroacetic anhydride (6.1 g,
29.0 nmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12h, diluted with
dichloromethane and washed with water. The organic layer was washed with brine, dried
over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to give the crude product which was
purified by column chromatography to provide the title compound.
ESI-MS (M+I): 400 calc. for C1H2hFN30s        399.
Step F
2,2,2-Trifluoro-N-((I -(2-(2-hydroxyethoxv)ethyl)piperazin-2-yl)methyl)acetanide
           F     F
           O     NH
                        NH
 HO,_      O       N
A solution of tert-butyl 4-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)ethyl)-3-((2,2,2
tritluoroacetainido)nethyl)piperazine-1-carboxylate, prepared as described in the
previous step. (8.6 g, crude) in methanolic hydrogen chloride (20 mL) was stirred at room
                                             54

temperature for I hour. followed by concentration to provide the title compound which
was used without further purification. ESI-MS (M+l): 300 calc. for C, Hm   2 F-N30, 299.
Step G
2-((2-Nitropheniyl)thio)benzoic acid
 O     OH oNo
         S
To a solution of 2-mercapto-benzoic acid (30 g, 0.195 mol) in isopropanol (500 mL) at
room temperature were added I-fluoro-2-nitro-benzene (30.2 g, 0.214 mol), water (100
mL) and potassium hydroxide (31.1 g, 0.555 mol). The reaction mixture was stirred at
room temperature overnight, quenched with water and diluted with ethyl acetate. The
aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 400 mL) and the combined organic
extracts were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride (500 mL), dried over
magnesium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. The crude residue was purified by flash
column chromatography on silica gel to give the title compound. ESI-MS (M+ 1): 276
calc. for C1 H9NO 4 S 275. 'H NMR: (CDCt, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 8.12-8.07 (m, 21),
7.54-7.43 (m, 2H), 7.42-7.39 (in, 2H), 7.35-7.31 (in, IH) , 7.12-7.09 (im, lH).
Step H
2-((2-Amino phenyl)thio)benzoic acid
      N~   OH
 H12N
To a solution of 2-((2-nitrophenyl)thio)benzoic acid, prepared as described in the
previous step, ( 4 3.3 g, 0.157 mol) in ethyl acetate (500 mL) was added Pd/C (8 g). The
reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under hydrogen gas
atmosphere. The mixture was filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound.
ESI-MS (M+1): 246 cale. for C1 3HINO 2S 245. 'H NMR: (CDCh,. 400 MHz): 6 (ppm)
                                               55

8.20-8.17(m, I H),7.51-7,48 (m, iH), 7.36-7.30(m,2f), 7.21-7.17 (m. 111) , 6.88-6.80
(m, 3H1).
Step I
Dibenzolb,fl 1,4]thiazcpin-1 1(101)-one
      HN
To a solution of 2-((2-aninophenvl)thio)beizoic acid, prepared as described in the
previous step. (30 g, 0.1 22mol) in dichloroimethane (300 mL) was added EDO (35.2 g,
0.183 mol), triethylamine (51 mL, 0.366 mol) and HOBT (24.7 g, 0.183 mol). The
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours, washed with IM aq.HCI,
saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, saturated aqueous sodium chloride, and dried over
MgSO 4 , T he solution was filtered, concentrated, and purified by column
chromatography to provide the title compound. ESI-MS (M+1): 228 calc, for C1 H 9NOS
227. 'H NMR: (CDCl, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 770-7.67 (in, IH), 758-7.52 (m, 2H). 7.50
7.42 (in, 2H), 7.39-7.35 (in, I),   7.24-7.22 (m, IH), 7.17-7.13 (m, 11H).
Step J
I I-Chlorodibenzo[b,fl1,4]thiazepine
    &s
        N.
            C
A solution of dibenzo[b,f}[1,4]thiazepin-l 1(101)-one, prepared as described in the
previous step, (14.6 g, 64 mmol) in phosphorus oxychlioride (20 mL) was heated to reflux
for 2 hours. The mixture was concentrated to provide the crude product which was used
directly without further purification. ES-MS (M+): 246 calc. for Cj HgClNS 245.
Step K
N-((4-(Dibenzo[b,f][ 1,4]thiazepin- 11-yl)-1-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)ethyl)piperazin-2
yl)inethl)-2,22-trifluoroacetamide
                                              56

             HO
                     }        -F
                    HN
               N
        N
To a solution of I 1-chlorodibenzo[b,fl[l,4}thiazepine, prepared as described in the
previous step, (2 g, crude) in dioxane (20 mL) was added Pd2(dba)3 (327 mg. 0.357
mmol), BINAP (225 mg, 0.357 mmol), triethylarnine (6 mL, 42.9 mmol) and 2,2,2
trifluoro-N-((I-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)ethl)piperazin-2-yl)niethyl)acetamide, prepared as
described as Step F, (2.4 g, crude). The resulting mixture was heated to reflux overnight
under nitrogen atmosphere, filtered through CELITE h X and concentrated. The residue
was purified by silica gel chromatography to provide the title compound. ESI-MS (M+-1):
509 calc. for Cr  2 7 F3 N,0 3 S 508.
Step L
2-(2-(2-(Aninonethyl)-4-(dibenzo[b,f}[1,4]thiazepin- II -yl)piperazin-I
yl)ethoxy)ethanol
                            rOH
            <-N       NH2
           N
 A mixture of N-((4-(dibenzo[b,f      I A]thiazepin- I I-yl)-1-(2-(2
hydroxyethoxy)ethyl)piperazin-2-yl)nethyl)-2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide, prepared as
described in the previous step, (2.0 g) and aqueous potassium carbonate (5%) (15 mL) in
methanol (20 ml-) was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours and extracted with ethyl
acetate. The organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride, dried
                                                57

over sodium sulfate, filtered, evaporated to give the crude product which was purified by
column chromatography, and followed by prep-HPLC to provide the title compound as a
yellow solid. ESI-MS (M+l): 413 calc. for CH2sN402S 412. 'H NMR: (CDCI3 , 400
MHz): S (ppm) 7.52-7.50 (m, 1H), 741-7.31 (m, 4H), 717-7.12 (m, 1H). 7.02-7.00 (m,
1H), 6.89-6.84 (m, 1H)- 366-3.59 (m, 5H)l 3.54-3.51 (m, 2H), 3.49-3.38 (m, 1H), 3.19
3.12 (in, 1H), 3.03-2.88 (m, 2H), 2.79-2.53 (m, 5H).
Example 2
N-((4-(Dibenzo[bf][1,4]thiazepin-I I-yl)-l-(2-(2-hvdroxyethoxy)ethyl)piperazin-2
yl)methyI)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dibydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetamide
                       -/OH
               N
            N       HN-K
            N--NO
To a solution of 2-(2-(2-(aminomethyl)-4-(dibenzo[b,f][1,4]thiazepin-11-yl)piperazin-1.
yl)ethoxy)ethanol, prepared as described in Example 1, (7.8 mg, 19.0 pmoles) in 410 gL
of DMF and 8,9 pL oftributylamine was added 480 gL of a DMF solution of N-(a
maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester (AMAS, 10 mg/mL, 4.8 mg. 19.0 gioles). The
resulting solution was allowed to stir for 60 minutes at 20 *C, then used as such in
conjugation reaction with thiol-activated protein.
Example 3
2-{2-[4-(3-Amirionerhyl-dibenzo[b,f][1,4]thiazepin- I I-yl)-piperazin-1 -vl]-ethoxy
ethanol
                                              58

                          -OH
                N
            N
       N
                      NH2
Step A
1 1-Oxo- 10, 11 -dihydrodibenzo[bf[ 1,4thiazepine-3-carboxylic acid
      HNH
                      OH
A mixture of 2-arino-benzenethiol (1.34 ml, 12.5 mmol), 2-bromo-terephthalic acid
(1.54 g, 6.3 mmol), cuprous oxide (0.50 g, 3.5 mmol), quinoline (6.3 mL). and pyridine
(0.63 mL) was heated in a 180 *C oil bath under nitrogen for 20 hours, then cooled to
room temperature. Concentrated hydrochloric acid (20 miL) was added slowly while
cooling in cold water, with stirring. The resulting precipitate was filtered, washed with
water, and dried to give crude title compound (2 g). LC-MS: m/z 270 (M-1).
Step B
 Il-Chloro-dibenzo[bifj[l4]thiazepine-3-carbonyi chloride
            C!
       N
                      CI
                   0
To a suspension of 1I -oxo-10,11-dihydrodibenzo[b,tl[1,4]thiazepine-3-carboxylic acid,
prepared as described in the previous step, (0.41 g) in toluene (6.5 mL) was added DMF
(0.125 mL) and thionyl chloride (6.5 mL). The mixture was heated in an 80 *C oil bath
under nitrogen over night. The resulting solution was concentrated to dryness. The crude
product was used for next step.
                                             59

Step C
I1I-Chloro-dibenzo[b,fl[1,4]thiazepine-3-carboxylic acid amide
           C!
       N
                      NH2
                  0
A solution of II1-chloro-dibenzo[bt][1,4]thiazepine-3-carbonyI chloride, prepared as
described in the previous step, ( ca 1.5 mmol) in dichloromethane (10 mL) was treated
with a I,4-dioxane solution of ammonia (0.5 NI, 9 nL) under ice bath. The resulting
suspension was stirrd at room temperature for 1 hour, and the reaction was quenched
with water (10 mL). The resulting precipitate was filtered, washed with water and
dichloromethane, and dried. The organic layer of the filrate was washed with saturated
aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and concentrated to additional off white product,
which was used in the next step without additional purification. LC-MS: m/z 289 (M+1).
 H NMR (DMSO-d6 , 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 8.19 (br, I H), 8.00-7.96 (m, 2H), 7.90 (d, 11-),
7.64 (br, IH) ,7.56 (m, 1H), 7.47 (m, IH), 7.31 (m, 2H).
Step D
II- {4-[2-(2-Hydroxy-ethoxy)-ethyl]-piperazin- I -yl) -dibenzo[b,f][1,4](hiazepine-3
carboxylic acid amide
                         0-/OH
                C NH
     OK <--
        N
                       NH,
                   d
To a solution of 11 -chloro-dibenzo b,fl[1,4]thiazepine-3-carboxylic acid amide, prepared
as described in the previous step, (0.40 g) in DMF (1.5 mL) and toluene (1.5 mL) was
added 2-(2-piperazin-1-yl-ethoxy)-ethanol (0. 50 g, 2.9 mmol). The solution was heated
in a 110 'C oil bath under nitrogen for 5 hours. concentrated, and purified (silica gel, 2
                                              60

5% mcthanol-dichloromethane containing ammonia cluent) to give the title compound as
an off white solid. LC-MS: m/z 427 (M+l).
Step E
2- (2-[4-(3-Aminomethyl-dibenzo[b,flI,4}thiazepin-l I -l)-piperazin-l        -yl-ethoxy)
ethanol
                                             N
                                          N
                                      N
                                                    NH2
To a solution of 2-{2-[4-(3-aminomethyl-dibenzo[bf][ 1,4]thiazepin-l I -yI)-piperazinI
ylj-ethoxy}-ethaniol, prepared as described in the previous step, ( 0 .2 4 g, 0.56 mmol) in
T HF (15 mL) was added I M lithium aluminum hydride THF solution (6 mL, 6 mmol).
The white suspension was heated in a 70 *C oil bath under nitrogen for 2 hours. The
reaction suspension was quenched with slow addition of saturated aqueous sodium
sulfate solution under ice bath. The solution phase was separated, and solid was extracted
with TiIF (5 X 10 nL). The combined organic phases were concentrated and purified
(silica gel, 2-5% methainol-dichloromethane containing ammonia fluent) to give the title
compound as an off white solid. LC-MS: m/z 413 (M+1). H NMR (CDCl, 400MIz) 6
(ppm) 7.47 (s, 1H), 7.38 (m, 1H), 7.26 (in, 2H, overlappedwith solvent), 7.17 (in, 1-1),
7.06 (in, 1H), 6.88 (m, 1H), 3.85 (s, 2H), 3.76-3.46 (in, IIH, containing exchangeable
protons), 2.66-2.57 (in. 8H).
Example 4
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-IH-pyrrol-I -yl)-N-((l l-(4-(2-(2
hydroxyethoxy)ethyl)piperazin- I -yl)dibenzo[b,f][1.4]thiazepin-3-yl)methyl)acetamide
                                             61

                           -OH
               N
           N
                     H
                    _Na
To a solution of 2- 2-[4-(3-amrinomethyl-dibenzo[b,f][1,4]thiazepin-1I-yl)-piperazin-1
yl]-ethoxy}-othanoi prepared as described in Example 3,.(5.6 mg, 13.6 p moles) in 295
 xL of DMF and 6.4 pL of tributylamine was added 340 ptL of a DMF solution of N-(a
nalcinidoacetoxy)succinimide ester (AMAS, 10 mg/mL, 3.4 mig, 13.6 moless. The
resulting solution was allowed to stir for 60 minutes at 20 "C, then used as such in
conjugation reaction with thiol-activated protein.
Example 5
N-((4-(dibenzo[b,fl[1,4]thiazepin- I 1-yl)- I-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)mhy.)piperazin-2
yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-IH-pyrrol-1 -yl)acetamide-bovine thyroglobulin
conjugate
Step A
Bovine Thyroglobulin (BTG) reaction with SATA:
To 3.0 mL of a solution of bovine thyroglobulin (BTG, 20.0 mng, 0.03 mnoles) in 100
mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 was added 276.0 pL of a DMF solution of N-succinimidyl
S-acetyithioacetate (SATA, 25 mg/mL, 6.9 mg, 30.0 pnoles). The resulting solution was
incubated at 20 "C for I hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a Sephadex
G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 5 mM EDTA, at pH 6.0. To 6.0 mL of
BTG-SATA (18.0 mg, 0.027 armoles ) was added 600           L of 2.5 M hydroxylamine, 50
mM EDTA, pH 7.0. The resulting solution was incubated at 20 'C for I hour on a roller
mixer.
                                               62

Step B
To an aliquot of BTG-SH solution, prepared as described in the previous step, 6.6mL,
0.027 yuoles) was added an aliquot of the solution prepared in Example 2 (898.9 AL,
19.0 ptmoIes). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 3 hours at 20 'C on a
roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0,45 ptm syringe filter, then purified on
a Sephadex G-25 column using 10) mM phosphate buffer, 0.14M sodium chloride, at pH
7.4
Example 6
2-(2.5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro- I1H-pyrrol-l -yi)-N-(( 11-(4-(2-(2
hydroxvethoxy)ethvl)piperazin-1 -yl)dibenzo[bfj[1,4]thiazepin-3-vl)mvethyl)acetamide
bovine thyroglobulin-conjugate
To an aliquot of BTG-Sl solution, prepared as described in Example 5 Step A, (3.4mL,
0.014anmoles) was added 641.4 p. of 2-(2.5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1l1-pyrrol-L-yl)-N-((ll
(4-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxv)ethyl)piperazin-1-vl)dibenzo[bf][1,4]thiazepin-3
yl)methyl)acetamide, prepared as described in Example 4, (13.6 unioles). The resulting
cloudy mixture was incubated for 3 hours at 20 "C on a roller mixer. The reaction was
purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.14M sodium
chloride, at pH 7.4.
Example 7
N-((4-(dibenzo[b,f}[1,4]thiazepin- II -vl)-1-(2-(2-hvdroxyethoxy)ethyl)piperazin-2
yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2.5-dihydro- IH-pyrrol-1-yl)acetaniidc-keyhole limpet
hemocyanin-conjugate
Step A
Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin (KLH) reaction with SATA
                                              63

To a 3.18 mL solution of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (K-. 15.6 mg. 0.156 Amoles) in
100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium chloride, at pl 7.4 was added 72.1 pL of a
DMF solution of N-succinimidyl-S-acetvithioacetate (SATA. 25 mg/mL, 1.8 mg, 7.80
prmoles). The resulting solution was incubated at 20 *C for I hour on a roller mixer. The
reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46
M sodium chloride, 5mM EDTA, at pH 6.0. To 6.27 mL of the resulting KLH-SATA
solution (13.3 mg, 0.133  moles)   was added 627 pL of 2.5M hydroxylamine, 50 mM
EDTA, at pH 7.0. The resulting solution was incubated at 20 *C for I hour on a roller
mixer. The reaction-was used as such in conjugation reaction with naleimide-activated
hapten.
Step B
To an aliquot of KLH-SH solution, prepared as described in the previous step, (6.9mL,
0.133 moles) was added an aliquot of the solution prepared in Example 2, (624.3 pL,
13.3 itmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 3 hours at 20 "C on a
roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 gm syringe filter then purified on a
Sephadex (-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium chloride, at p1H
7.4,
Example 8
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro--lH-pyrrol..1-yl)-N-((ll1-(4-(2-(2
hydroxycthoxy)cthvl)piperazin-1-vl)dibenzo[ b,fl[1,4]thiazcpin-3-yl)methyl)acetamide
keyhole limpet hemocyanin-conjugate
To an aliquot of the KLH-SIH solution, prepared as described in Example 7 Step A
(3.2mL, 0.061 unoles) was added an aliquot of the solution prepared in Example 4
(283.0 L-, 6.10 unoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 3 hours at 20
*C on a roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100
mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4.
                                            64

Example 9
Competitive Immunoassay for Quetiapine
Following a series of immunizations with quetiapine immunogens, mouse tail bleeds
were tested for reactivity using an ELISA. Hybridoma supernatants were also tested, and
the ELISA data shown in Tables I and 2 below shows reactivity of several hybridonas
(fusion partner was NSO cells),
Table I
  Caution    9         10         11      12
      400
      400
     1200
     1200     9.                          95     Cmpd   #
     3600                                            9
     3600
   i0800
     0800
 81 Sub   15358          16T 1 43q2     0.0533
          15111.       A1627 1,21A6     0.0427
          0.557:     04213 0598         0.0219
           &554      (14447 0 536       0023 Cmpd 4
          01932      01582 0168         00154        9
           G1l       0211 138           0 0132
             0736    0U722 0U733        00107
          0..884     00774 0.086        0,0107
Table 2
 dilution    4C12          1A4       4G12          1W6
   4        05            0.2002     0.144        0 1308
   1200      -),70        0.0619     6A105 0.03905
   3600         -0,,M      0.026                  0.0192
                                             -,408.5
  10800                   0.0132     00075       0.01035
   40X       33296       0425        0.22585     0.00615
   1200      2.4516         - --     0.0763      0.00685
   3600      1.1575        -     -2  0.02875     0.00615
  10800      0.4622       (1 47      0.0145      0.00645
 dilution     SE9          2F2        3E2
Supernatant was then tested by competition ELISA to determine if the signals were
specific to quetiapine. Figs. I and 2 show the results from representative hybridomas.
Data shows specific reactivity to quetiapine.
                                                      65

Fig. 3 shows the competitive immunmoassav format used on a lateral flow assay device in
which the capture antibody, a quetiapinc clone, was deposited on a chip along with a
detection conjugate consisting of quetiapine conjugated to a fluorophore. In this
competitive format as show in Fig. 3, a low level of analyte (quetiapine) results in high
signal. whereas a high level of analyte (quetiapine) results in low signal. The amount of
quetiapine in the sample can be calculated from the loss of fluorescence compared to a
control sample with no drug present. A typical dose response curve generated with
quetiapine sub-clones 89-3, 89-13, and 89-5 is shown in Fig. 4.
                                             66

Claims
1. A compound of Formula I,
    R3 0     0
               CN      R2
                  -
           N7/
      C S             R1
Formula I
wherein:
                                                        0   0
                    0    0                           N 1J     k N
                 N             N                     H               N
                 H                 N                                          N
                                                                       0
R' is H,                                   O     ,                                 , or
CH 2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H;
                      0    0
                                    N
R2 is H,,                             0     0
         0    0
      N            N                  0
                             0      N
                                 0      , or CH 2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H;
R3 is H; provided that either R' or R 2 must be H, and further provided that R and R2 may not
all be H simultaneously;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

2. The compound of Formula I selected from the group consisting of:
             0
    H-     --   N    O     o
             N     NA       OH
       N           H
              C
   HO
              N
               N      H
         \    SN                 O-H
                         0   0
    HO      O
            C   N    C   C
            ND     N          N
                                   N    , H ), H
        Nb         H
  HO0
              N
        N             H
                      HO     .        N -1UOH
             S
                        0    0

        HG N
             /-N          0    0
             N         N          N
                                       0
                                             and
 HO0
               HOO
           N                             0
                            H              n
             S            NN               N
                             0    0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
3. The compound of claim 2 which is
               0
     HO       ( -- N             O
               N        N AI        OH
         N              H
wherein m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

4. The compound of claim 2 which is
   HO
              N
                 NH                 .
                            N            H
                                        OT-
                S
                               0      0
wherein m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
5. The compound of claim 2 which is
     HO       O
              C   N        0   0
              N         NY$        N
         N              H                NOH
                                             0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
6. The compound of claim 2 which is
  HO
               N                             00
           N               H     .N             OH
               S           N     0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

7. The compound of claim 2 which is
    HO           N
              r-N         0     0
             N                 1N N
             8         HN
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
8. The compound of claim 2 which is
 HO
                                            O\,
         N                              N
             S                        N
                              0    0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
9. A conjugate of a compound of claim 1 or claim 2 and an immunogenic carrier.
10. The conjugate of claim 9, wherein the compound is
              0
     HO1       -- N         O     o
              N         NA          OH
         Nb             H
wherein m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

11.      The conjugate of claim 9, wherein the compound is
    HO
              N
                 N         H
                    S      N         OH
                              0    0
wherein m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
12.      The conjugate of claim 9, wherein the compound is
     HO       O
                      N
              CN
         Nb             H             N4,     r OH
                  /0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
13.      The conjugate of claim 9, wherein the compound is
  HO
               N00
           N.-        z    H     .        N$4$OH
                   SN            MN
                             0  0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

14.      The conjugate of claim 9, wherein the compound is
    HO           N
              r-N         0   0
             N               1N N
             8         HN
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
15.      The conjugate of claim 9, wherein the compound is
 HO
                                           0N 0
         N                               N
             S                      N
                                    N               0
                            0   0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
16.      The conjugate of any one of claims 9 to 15, wherein the immunogenic carrier is a
protein.
17.      The conjugate of claim 16, where the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin
or bovine thyroglobulin.
18.      A product made by the process of contacting a compound of claim 1 or claim 2 with an
immunogenic carrier.

19.      The process of claim 18, wherein the compound is
               0
     HO          -- N           a
               N        NA &OH
         Nb             H
wherein m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
20.      The process of claim 18, wherein the compound is
    HO
                N
                            H
                            N       OeH
                S
                              0   0
wherein m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
21.      The process of claim 18, wherein the compound is
     HO       O
              C     N      0   0
              N         N=N
           N            H             N4        OH
                        K"                  0
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

22.      The process of claim 18, wherein the compound is
  HO
           N                H.IN                   OH
               S                    N
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
23.      The process of claim 18, wherein the compound is
    HO           N
              r-N         O   0
             N         N         N0
          Nsb          H             N
wherein:
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

24.      The process of claim 18, wherein the compound is
 HO
         Ni                NI                   n
                                    N   N4
       /\         x
                            0   0
wherein:
m is 1, 2 3, 4. or 5; and
  is l, 2.3,4, or 5.
25.      The process of any one of claims 18 to 24, wherein the immunogenic carrie is a protein.
26.      The conjugate of claim 25, where the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin
or bovine thyroglobulin.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
