                                          ABSTRACT
         A scaffolding arrangement for covering a void includes a pair of horizontally
extending cylindrical support rails (60) spaced apart in a generally parallel arrangement. A
panel (50) forming part of a void platform comprises a floor surface (52) supported by at least
two elongate support members (54), each support member defining a cross-section and hook
portion at each end. Each hook portion is disposed on one of the pair of horizontally
extending cylindrical support members (60) with the panel 950) supported between the
horizontally extending cylindrical support members. A sleeve (10) defines an internal recess
(11) adapted to receive the cross-section of the support member (54), a pair of apertures (20)
in opposed side faces for receiving a cylindrical support member and a locking means (26)for
securing the sleeve to the support member. The sleeve (10) locates around an end of the
support member including the hook portion (56) located on the support rail (60), with the
support rail extending through the apertures (20) on the sleeve and the locking means securing
the sleeve in position on the end of the support member therefore forming a hinge
arrangement allowing rotation of the panel about the support rail while preventing
disengagement of the hooks from the support rail (60).

Lr
                                                   1
                                  Hinge assembly for scaffolding
Technical Field
[0001]    This invention relates to a hinge assembly for scaffolding, and particularly for use with
a void platform.
Background
[0002]    Void platforms are used to ensure workers are safe when working at heights. They are
erected in multi-storey buildings during construction to provide safe access for workers, prevent
falls and facilitate works that have to be carried out in the void area (most typically gaps in
flooring where a staircase or the like is to be located). They are used to create a working
platform at floor level covering the void and are also used to provide ladder access to an adjacent
level. They are used to cover all types of voids, but most typically stairwells and lift shafts.
[0003]    Void platforms are most typically formed from a floor panel, usually made from
plywood or a similar material with supporting members fixed to the underside of the panel. The
ends of the supporting members define hooks. The hooks locate on horizontally extending
tubular rails which are fixed to or near the sides of the void to be covered. The platforms are
typically made in a number of standard sizes to span common void lengths.
[0004]    Void platforms typically include an access panel so that a ladder can be fed through the
platform to allow workers to climb up to, and down from, the platform which may in some case
be provided by removal of one of the panels. However having loose unsecured panels on the
platform is generally undesirable and may present a safety hazard to workers.
[0005]    Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
claims.

                                                   2
Summary
[0006]    According to the present invention, there is provided a sleeve for use in forming a hinge
in a scaffolding arrangement for covering a void the scaffolding arrangement including a pair of
horizontally extending cylindrical support rails spaced apart in a generally parallel arrangement
and a platform comprising a floor surface supported by at least two elongate support members
each support member defining a cross-section and further defining hook portion at each end,
each hook portion disposed on one of the pair of horizontally extending cylindrical support
members with the platform supported and extending between the horizontally extending
cylindrical support members, wherein
          the sleeve defines an internal recess adapted to receive the cross-section of the support
member, a pair of apertures in opposed side faces for receiving the cylindrical support member
and a locking means for securing the sleeve to the support member, wherein the sleeve is capable
of locating around an end of the support member including the hook portion when located on the
support rail, with the support rail extending through the apertures on the sleeve with the locking
means securing the sleeve in position on the end of the support member therefore forming a
hinge arrangement allowing rotation of the platform about the support rail which preventing
disengagement of the hooks from the support rail.
[0007]    Typically the pair of apertures will be circular and sized with a slightly larger diameter
than the diameter of the support rails.
[0008]    In a related aspect, the present invention provides a scaffolding arrangement for
covering a void or the like comprising;
          a pair of horizontally extending cylindrical support rails spaced apart in a generally
parallel arrangement;
          a platform comprising a floor surface supported by at least two elongate support
members each support member defining a cross-section and further defining hook portion at each
end, each hook portion disposed on one of the pair of horizontally extending cylindrical support
members with the platform supported and extending between the horizontally extending
cylindrical support members; and

                                                   3
          a sleeve, the sleeve defining an internal recess adapted to receive the cross-section of
the support member, a pair of apertures in opposed side faces for receiving a cylindrical support
member and a locking means for securing the sleeve to the support member, wherein the sleeve
locates around an end of the support member including the hook portion located on the support
rail, with the support rail extending through the apertures on the sleeve and the locking means
securing the sleeve in position on the end of the support member therefore forming a hinge
arrangement allowing rotation of the platform about the support rail which preventing
disengagement of the hooks from the support rail.
[0009]    Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0010]    Specific embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
example only, and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
Figure 1 is a side view of a hinge component for a void platform or the like;
Figure 2 is a front view of the hinge component of Figure 1;
Figure 3 is an underneath plan view of the hinge component of Figure 1;
Figure 4 shows a void platform incorporating the hinge component of Figure 1;
Figure 5 is a side view showing the hinge component is use, showing hidden detail in dashed
lines;
Figure 6 is a section on arrow 1 shown in Figure 5; and
Figure 7 is a bottom view showing the hinge component in use.

                                                    4
Description of Embodiments
[0011]     Referring to the drawings, Figures 1 to 3 illustrate a sleeve component 10 for forming a
hinge. As is best seen in Figure 2, the sleeve has a generally rectangular annular cross-section
defining an internal recess or space 11. The sleeve defines two right trapezoidal side faces 12,
14 and a rectangular top 16 and a longer rectangular base 18. As is best seen in Figure 1, the
sloping front edge of the side face 12 defines an angle a of 60' with the top 16. A large circular
hole 20 is defined in each side face. In the base 18 of the sleeve a hole 22 is defined. An M12
nut 24 is welded over the hole. The nut 24 receives an M12 bolt 26.
[0012]     With reference to Figures 4 to 7, the sleeve component 10 is used in conjunction with a
floor panel 50 for forming a void platform. The floor panel comprises a sheet of material 52,
typically plywood or a similar material, forming a floor surface mounted on two support
members in the form of metal edge supports 54, typically aluminium extrusions. The main
central part of the supports has a rectangular cross-section which is smaller than the cross section
of the sleeve. A hook 56 defining a semi-circular recess 57 for engaging with a tubular support
rail is fixed at the end of each support. Cross members (not shown) may extend between the
edge supports.
[0013]     The floor panels 50 mount over a void on top of two horizontally extending parallel
spaced apart support rails in the form of scaffolding tubes 60 having an annular circular cross
section, with the hooks 56 of the support members engaging over the tubes to retain the panels in
position. The horizontally extending scaffolding tubes 60 are spaced apart at the same distance
as the hooks at the end of each support.
[0014]     As shown in Figure 4, four of the five panels 50 located on the support rails 60 simply
rest on the supports. The end panel is hinged to one support rail using the sleeve as explained
below.
[0015]     As shown in Figures 4 to 7, the sleeve 10 is mounted on the horizontally extending
scaffolding tube 60, with the tube 60 passing through the circular holes 20 in the sleeve. The
hook 56 of a support member 54 is then inserted into the sleeve 10 with the hook 56 resting on
top of the scaffolding tube 60. The bolt 26 is then extended into the sleeve 10 to engage with the
bottom of the support member 54 as shown in Figures 5 and 6, to prevent the sleeve from sliding
relative to the support member.

                                                   5
[0016]   Advantageously, the sleeve enables a void platform to be hinged to the support rail,
enabling the platform to be turned through 900 or more without disengaging from the support
rail. The hinged platform can be used as a trapdoor and/or rested against a wall when access is
required to the void platform or for insertion of an access ladder or stair through the void
platform. Safety is improved as the hinged platform is fixed to the support rail and is not loose
as well as being available to close the hole in the platform when required.
[0017]   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without departing from the
broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be
considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

                                                   6
CLAIMS:
1.        A sleeve for use in forming a hinge in a scaffolding arrangement for covering a void the
scaffolding arrangement including a pair of horizontally extending cylindrical support rails
spaced apart in a generally parallel arrangement and a panel comprising a floor surface supported
by at least two elongate support members each support member defining a cross-section and
further defining hook portion at each end, each hook portion disposed on one of the pair of
horizontally extending cylindrical support members with the panel supported and extending
between the horizontally extending cylindrical support members, wherein
          the sleeves define an internal recess adapted to receive the cross-section of the support
member, a pair of apertures in opposed side faces for receiving the cylindrical support member
and a locking means for securing the sleeve to the support member, wherein the sleeve is capable
of locating around an end of the support member including the hook portion located on the
support rail, with the support rail extending through the apertures on the sleeve with the locking
means securing the sleeve in position on the end of the support member therefore forming a
hinge arrangement allowing rotation of the panel about the support rail, while preventing
disengagement of the hooks from the support rail.
2.        A sleeve as claimed in claim 1 the pair of apertures are circular and sized with a slightly
larger diameter than the diameter of the support rails.
3.        A sleeve as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the locking means comprises an
aperture in a base of the sleeve and a bolt or the like extending through the aperture to engage the
support member.
4.        A sleeve as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the sleeve has a substantially
rectangular cross-section.
5.        A scaffolding arrangement for covering a void or the like comprising;
          a pair of horizontally extending cylindrical support rails spaced apart in a generally
parallel arrangement;

                                                   7
          a panel comprising a floor surface supported by at least two elongate support members
each support member defining a cross-section and further defining hook portion at each end,
each hook portion disposed on one of the pair of horizontally extending cylindrical support
members with the panel supported and extending between the horizontally extending cylindrical
support members; and
          a sleeve, the sleeve defining an internal recess adapted to receive the cross-section of
the support member, a pair of apertures in opposed side faces for receiving a cylindrical support
member and a locking means for securing the sleeve to the support member, wherein the sleeve
locates around an end of the support member including the hook portion located on the support
rail, with the support rail extending through the apertures on the sleeve, and the locking means
securing the sleeve in position on the end of the support member therefore forming a hinge
arrangement allowing rotation of the platform about the support rail while preventing
disengagement of the hooks from the support rail.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+03ED><U+036C><U+03EF>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+03EE><U+036C><U+03EF>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+03EF><U+036C><U+03EF>

