I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_l.docx-3 04 2018
Abstract
                A power generating system (A) using low quality coal includes a low quality coal
refining facility (3) that heats the low quality coal (2) to refine the low quality coal into high
grade coal (4), a CO 2 recovery facility (6) that recovers CO 2 from an exhaust gas (7) generated
by refining the low quality coal (2) in the low quality coal refining facility (3), while using
steam (8) generated by refining the low quality coal (2) in the low quality coal refining facility
(3), and a power generating facility (5) that performs the power generation using, as fuel, the
high-grade coal obtained by refining the low quality coal (2) in the low quality coal refining
facility (3).

LO>
             CLU
                       CD
  0        A
 C-,)
                    00        (D
               r-L.
                           a-   >
                              0
                        CD
      3.~
          00
C0

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
                    POWER GENERATING SYSTEM USING LOW QUALITY COAL
[0001]
                 The entire content of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application
No. 2014386062 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
  [0001A]
                The present invention relates to, for example, a power generating system using low
quality coal such as subbituminous coal or lignite.
[0002]
                For example, low quality coal such as subbituminous coal or lignite generally contains
moisture, has a low carbonization degree, and has a low calorific value at the combustion.
Further, if such low quality coal is directly used as fuel for a power generating facility (a
power generating plant) such as a coal-fired power plant, the power generation efficiency
decreases and the amount of CO 2 emission per unit greatly increases. Accordingly, low
quality coal is used as a fuel of a power generating facility, for example, by supplying low
quality coal dried and refined in advance to a boiler or by providing a drying process before
combustion in a power generating facility to perform refining for increasing a calorific value
(e.g., see Patent Literature 1).
Citation List
Patent Literature
[0003]
                 [Patent Literature 1] Japanese Unexamined Patent Application, First Publication No.
H 11-082991
[0004]
                However, when low quality coal is refined, it is necessary to obtain a heat source for
drying the low quality coal by burning the low quality coal itself or by burning different fuel.
Accordingly, the amount of CO 2 emission can be reduced by only several percent, e.g., about
                                                             1

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
2 to 3%, even when the low quality coal is refined by applying labor and cost.
[0005]
                Further, a CO 2 recovery facility (a CO 2 recovery apparatus) for recovering and
removing CO 2 from an exhaust gas exhausted from a boiler or the like in a power generating
facility such as a coal-fired power plant has been proposed. This CO 2 recovery facility
includes, for example, an absorption tower that brings an amine-based CO 2 absorption liquid
into contact with an exhaust gas so that CO 2 in the exhaust gas is absorbed into the CO 2
absorption liquid, and a regeneration tower that dissociates and recovers CO 2 by heating, using
steam, the CO 2 absorption liquid that has absorbed CO 2 in the absorption tower to regenerate
the amine CO 2 absorption liquid.
[0006]
                Further, when such a CO 2 recovery facility is applied to a power generating facility
such as a coal-fired power plant, steam generated in a boiler is used for regeneration of the
CO 2 absorption liquid in the regeneration tower, which may cause degradation of turbine
efficiency, and thus degradation of the amount of power generated of, for example, 20 to 30%.
Furthermore, when low quality coal is used as fuel, degradation of recovery efficiency of CO 2
and degradation of the amount of power generated may be caused.
[0007]
                Further, when a CO 2 recovery apparatus is applied to a coal-fired power plant, it is
necessary to treat a large amount of exhaust gas, which may increase facility cost and cause a
great increase in the cost of power generation.
[0008]
                According to the present invention, there is provided a power generating system using low
quality coal as fuel for a boiler to perform power generation, the power generating system
comprising: a low quality coal refining facility comprising a drying/dry distillation apparatus that
heats the low quality coal to refine the low quality coal into high-grade coal; a CO 2 recovery
facility comprising an absorption tower which absorbs CO 2 included in an exhaust gas generated
by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal refining facility, and a regeneration tower
which discharges the CO 2 using steam; a power generating facility that performs the power
                                                             2

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
generating using, as fuel, the high-grade coal obtained by refining the low quality coal in the low
quality coal refining facility wherein the absorption tower receives exhaust gas generated by
heating the low quality coal in the low quality coal refining facility and brings the exhaust gas into
contact with CO 2 absorption liquid comprising amines to absorb and remove CO 2 from the exhaust
gas, and the regeneration tower dissociates CO 2 from the CO 2 absorption liquid that has absorbed
CO 2 in the absorption tower, by heating the CO 2 absorption liquid with the steam to separate and
recover CO 2 in a gaseous state.
[0008A]
                 The system according to the preferred embodiments of the invention includes a steam
supplier supplying the steam generated by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal
refining facility to the CO 2 recovery facility.
[0009]
                In the power generating system using low quality coal, the power generating system
may include a CO 2 transportation facility for transporting CO 2 recovered in the CO 2 recovery
facility to an oil production plant.
[0010]
                In the power generating system using low quality coal, the low quality coal refining
facility may be provided near a coal mine from which the low quality coal is produced.
[0011]
                In the power generating system using low quality coal, the CO 2 transportation facility
may be a pipeline that connects the low quality coal refining facility with the CO 2 recovery
facility.
[0012]
                In the power generating system using low quality coal described above, it is possible to
improve a calorific value and thus improve power generation efficiency of a coal-fired power
plant by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal refining facility provided
separately from a power generating facility.
                                                             3

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04/2018
[0013]
                Further, it is possible to reduce the amount of exhaust gas at the time of use as boiler
fuel by treating, in the CO 2 recovery facility provided separately from the power generating
facility, the exhaust gas exhausted by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal
refining facility, and reduce the amount of emissions of environmental pollution such as C0 2 ,
SOx, NOx, and Hg. Accordingly, it is possible to reduce capital costs and operational costs of
a pollution control facility.
[001 3A]
                The present invention will now be described, by way of non-limiting example only,
with reference to the accompanying drawings briefly described as follows.
[0014]
                Fig. 1 is a diagram illustrating a power generating system according to an embodiment
of the present invention.
  [0015]
                Hereinafter, a power generating system using low quality coal according to an
embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to Fig. 1.
[0016]
                A power generating system A using low quality coal of the present embodiment
includes a low quality coal refining facility 3 that refines low quality coal (coal having low
quality) 2 such as subbituminous coal or lignite produced from a mine 1, a power generating
facility 5 that performs power generation using, as a fuel, high-grade coal (coal having high
quality) 4 obtained by refining the low quality coal 2 in the low quality coal refining facility 3,
and a CO 2 recovery facility 6 that recovers CO 2 generated in the low quality coal refining
facility 3, as shown in Fig. 1.
[0017]
                The low quality coal refining facility 3 is a facility that heats the low quality coal 2 to
                                                             4

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
refine the low quality coal 2 into the high-grade coal 4, and includes, for example, a drying/dry
distillation apparatus that performs a drying treatment or a dry distillation treatment to heat the
low quality coal 2 and vaporize moisture.
[0018]
                The power generating facility 5 is a coal-fired power generating facility that includes a
boiler that generates steam using coal as fuel, and a turbine driven by the steam generated in
the boiler. Further, this power generating facility 5 is configured to perform power generation,
for example, by driving a high pressure turbine by high pressure and high temperature steam
generated in the boiler, overheating an exhaust gas of the high pressure turbine in a re
superheater of the boiler, driving a moderate pressure turbine by re-overheated moderate
pressure steam, and driving a low pressure turbine using an exhaust gas of the moderate
pressure turbine. Further, the power generating facility 5 includes an exhaust gas treating
facility such as a condenser, a desulfurization apparatus, and a chimney.
[0019]
                The CO 2 recovery facility 6 includes an absorption tower for receiving exhaust gas 7
and steam 8 generated by heating the low quality coal 2 in the low quality coal refining facility
3 and bringing the exhaust gas 7 into contact with CO 2 absorption liquid to absorb and remove
CO 2 from the exhaust gas 7, and a regeneration tower for receiving the CO 2 absorption liquid
that has absorbed CO 2 in the absorption tower and separating and recovering CO 2 absorbed
into the CO 2 absorption liquid.
[0020]
                In the absorption tower, an absorption liquid scrubber that sprays the CO 2 absorption
liquid in a mist form is provided therein, and the CO 2 absorption liquid sprayed from this
absorption liquid scrubber and the exhaust gas 7 introduced from the low quality coal refining
facility 3 to the inside of the absorption tower through a communication duct and flowing
from a lower part of the absorption tower to an upper part thereof are brought into contact with
each other. Accordingly, CO 2 in the exhaust gas 7 is dissolved in and absorbed into the CO 2
absorption liquid, and the treated exhaust gas from which CO 2 has been removed is released
from the upper part to the outside. Further, the CO 2 absorption liquid having absorbed CO 2 is
                                                             5

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
accumulated in the lower part of the absorption tower.
[0021]
                Further, it is desirable for the absorption tower to be configured to include a scrubber
or a demister that sprays cooling water in a mist form, which is provided above the internal
absorption liquid scrubber, and to capture and remove, using the cooling water, gaseous
substances and particulate substances in the exhaust gas 7 that have not been collected into the
CO 2 absorption liquid.
[0022]
                Further, for example, an amine-based absorption liquid may be adopted as the CO 2
absorption liquid. Specifically, an alkanolamine such as monoethanolamine, diethanolamine,
triethanolamine, methyldiethanolamine, diisopropanolamine, or diglycolamine may be
adopted as the CO 2 absorption liquid. Further, hindered amines may be adopted. Further,
each water solution of the material or a water solution obtained by mixing two or more of the
materials may be used as the CO 2 absorption liquid.
[0023]
                The regeneration tower separates and recovers CO 2 from the CO 2 absorption liquid that
has absorbed CO 2 or the like in the absorption tower. An absorption liquid transportation pipe
for introducing the CO 2 absorption liquid from the absorption tower is connected to an upper
part of the regeneration tower. Further, the CO 2 absorption liquid accumulated in the lower
part of the absorption tower is sprayed and supplied from the upper part to the inside of the
regeneration tower by driving a liquid transportation pump of the absorption liquid
transportation pipe. Further, in the regeneration tower, high temperature steam is supplied
from the lower part and the sprayed CO 2 absorption liquid is heated. Accordingly, CO 2 is
dissociated from the CO 2 absorption liquid and desorbed, and the desorbed CO 2 is derived
from the upper part of the regeneration tower to the outside. Further, the derived CO 2 is
cooled, compressed in a compressor, and is recovered as compressed CO 2.
[0024]
                In this case, in the present embodiment, the steam 8 generated when the low quality
                                                             6

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_ Ldocx-3 04 2018
coal 2 is heated and refined into the high-grade coal 4 in the low quality coal refining facility 3
is provided to the regeneration tower, and the CO 2 absorption liquid is heated using the steam
8 generated in the low quality coal refining facility 3. Accordingly, it is unnecessary to
separately supply steam generated in a boiler or the like to the regeneration tower.
[0025]
                Further, the CO 2 absorption liquid from which CO 2 has been dissociated and removed
in this way is accumulated in the lower part of the regeneration tower, a return pump provided
in an absorption liquid supply pipe is driven, and the CO 2 absorption liquid is cooled by a
cooler and sent to the absorption tower. In other words, in the present embodiment, the CO 2
absorption liquid having absorbed CO 2 or the like is sent from the absorption tower to the
regeneration tower through the absorption liquid transportation pipe, and the CO 2 absorption
liquid from which CO 2 has been recovered in the regeneration tower is returned from the
regeneration tower to the absorption tower through the absorption liquid supply pipe again, to
thereby circulate the CO 2 absorption liquid between the absorption tower and the regeneration
tower so that the recovery of CO 2 is performed.
[0026]
                A simulation result for the power generating system using low quality coal of the
present embodiment will be described herein. First, for example, the low quality coal refining
facility 3 produces the high-grade coal 4 whose calorific value is 11,340 Btu/lb at a rate of 178
ton/h by treating the low quality coal 2 whose calorific value is 8,000 Btu/lb at a rate of 308
ton/h. Accordingly, it was confirmed that when the high-grade coal 4 is used as fuel of the
boiler of the coal fired power generating facility 5, a great calorific value can be obtained with
a small amount of the high-grade coal 4 and the power generation efficiency increases by 2%.
Further, when the low quality coal 2 is refined into the high-grade coal 4 in the low quality
coal refining facility 3 in this way, CO 2 (10% -wet) of 2,778 tpd and the exhaust gas 7 of
586,835 Nm 3/h are generated.
[0027]
                Further, when the high-grade coal 4 refined in the low quality coal refining facility 3 is
used as the fuel of the boiler of the coal fired power generating facility 5, the amount of CO 2
                                                              7

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
emissions are reduced to 9,246 tpd as compared with the amount of CO 2 emissions being
9,703 tpd when the lower coal 2 is used. Further, when the exhaust gas 7 exhausted from the
low quality coal refining facility 3 is treated in the CO 2 recovery facility 6 configured as
described above, CO 2 in the exhaust gas 7 can be recovered at a recovery rate of 90%,
recovering CO 2 of 2,500 tpd.
[0028]
                Further, according to the power generating system using low quality coal of the present
embodiment, it was confirmed that a total CO 2 exhaust ratio is changed from 940 ton/GWh to
881 ton/GWh, and a reduction of about 6%, as compared with a case in which the low quality
coal 2 is directly used.
[0029]
                Here, in an oil production plant, when the amount of collection of the oil using a
primary collection method is decreased, artificial oil discharge energy is given to an oil layer
to increase the amount of collection of the oil and increase a recovery rate of the oil. Further,
an enhanced oil (crude oil) recovery technique (EOR: Enhanced Oil Recovery) includes a
water flooding method of injecting water, a method of injecting natural gas, CO 2 or the like, a
thermal recovery method, or a chemical method.
[0030]
                For example, the low quality coal refining facility 3 is provided near the coal mine 1
from which the low quality coal 2 is produced, the CO 2 recovery facility 6 is provided near the
low quality coal refining facility 3, and a CO 2 transportation facility that transports CO 2
recovered in the CO 2 recovery facility 6 to the oil production plant is provided, and this CO 2
transportation facility includes a pipeline that connects the CO 2 recovery facility 6 with the oil
production plant, thereby constituting the power generating system A.                       With this
configuration, it is possible to efficiently refine the low quality coal 2 in the low quality coal
refining facility 3, the low quality coal 2 produced from the coal mine 1 and produce the high
grade coal 4, and to efficiently treat the exhaust gas 7 in the CO 2 recovery facility 6, the
exhaust gas 7 generated by refining the low quality coal 2 in the low quality coal refining
facility 3.
                                                             8

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04/2018
[0031]
                Further, when the CO 2 transportation facility such as the pipeline transporting CO 2
recovered in the CO 2 recovery facility 6 to the oil production plant is provided, compressed
CO 2 recovered in the CO 2 recovery facility 6 can be supplied to the oil production plant and
used as CO 2 for EOR. Further, CO 2 recovered in the CO 2 recovery facility 6 may be
accumulated deep underground to prevent CO 2 from being released to the atmosphere and
causing global warming.
[0032]
                Accordingly, in the power generating system using low quality coal of the present
embodiment, it is possible to improve a calorific value and thus to improve the power
generation efficiency of the coal-fired power plant 5 by refining the low quality coal 2.
Further, it is necessary to pulverize the low quality coal 2 when the low quality coal 2 is used
as the fuel of the boiler, while it is possible to reduce mill power by refining the low quality
coal 2. Furthermore, when there is a sufficient turbine capacity, it is possible to increase the
amount of power generated and achieve increase in power generating revenue by increasing
the amount of using of the low quality coal 2 (the amount of supply of the refined low quality
coal).
[0033]
                Further, it is possible to reduce the amount of exhaust gas at the time of use as the
boiler fuel and reduce the amount of emissions of environmental pollution such as C0 2 , SOx,
NOx, and Hg, by refining the low quality coal 2. Accordingly, it is possible to reduce capital
costs and operational cost of a pollution control facility.
[0034]
                Further, it is possible to remove the environmental pollution such as C0 2 , SOx, NOx,
and Hg, and minimize emission reduction measure costs for the environmental pollution, by
treating the exhaust gas 7 from the low quality coal refining facility 3 with the CO 2 recovery
facility 6,.
                                                             9

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04/2018
[0035]
                Further, it is possible to reduce the amount of CO 2 emissions and use recovered CO 2
for, for example, EOR by treating CO 2 in the exhaust gas 7 from the low quality coal refining
facility 3 with the CO 2 recovery facility 6 which provided separately from the power
generating facility 5,.
[0036]
                Further, since the amount of exhaust gas can be reduced in the case in which the low
quality coal 2 is refined in the low quality coal refining facility 3 compared with a case in
which the low quality coal 2 is directly used in the power generating facility 5, remodeling of
an existing facility is minimized and facility costs can be greatly reduced.
[0037]
                Furthermore, by using the steam 8 generated with the low quality coal refining facility
3 with the CO 2 recovery facility 6, it is possible to cause a power penalty to be zero and build
an efficient power generating system using low quality coal.
[0038]
                While the embodiment of the power generating system using low quality coal
according to the present invention has been described above, the present invention is not
limited to the embodiment and may be appropriately modified without departing from the
scope and spirit of the present invention.
[0039]
                In the power generating system using low quality coal described above, it is possible to
improve a calorific value and thus improve power generating efficiency of a coal-fired power
plant by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal refining facility provided
separately from the power generating facility.
                Further, it is possible to reduce the amount of exhaust gas at the time of use as boiler
fuel and reduce the amount of environmental pollution such as CO 2 , SOx, NOx, or Hg, by
treating, in the CO 2 recovery facility provided separately from the power generating facility,
                                                             10

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
the exhaust gas exhausted by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal refining
facility. Accordingly, it is also possible to reduce the capital cost and operational costs of a
pollution control facility.
Reference signs List
[0040]
                 1             mine (coal mine)
                2              low quality coal
                3              low quality coal refining facility
                4              high-grade coal
                5              power generating facility
                6              CO 2 recovery facility
                7              exhaust gas
                8              steam
                A              power generating system using low quality coal
[0041]
                While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it
should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by way
of limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various changes in
form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described
exemplary embodiments.
[0042]
                The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
                                                              11

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_l.docx-3 04/2018
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[0043]
                Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                                              12

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_Ldocx-3 04 2018
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.             A power generating system using low quality coal as fuel for a boiler to perform power
generation, the power generating system comprising:
                a low quality coal refining facility comprising a drying/dry distillation apparatus that heats
the low quality coal to refine the low quality coal into high-grade coal;
                a CO 2 recovery facility comprising an absorption tower which absorbs CO 2 included in an
exhaust gas generated by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal refining facility, and
a regeneration tower which discharges the CO 2 using steam;
                a power generating facility that performs the power generating using, as fuel, the
high-grade coal obtained by refining the low quality coal in the low quality coal refining facility
wherein
                the absorption tower receives exhaust gas generated by heating the low quality coal in the
low quality coal refining facility and brings the exhaust gas into contact with CO 2 absorption
liquid comprising amines to absorb and remove CO 2 from the exhaust gas, and
                the regeneration tower dissociates CO 2 from the CO 2 absorption liquid that has absorbed
CO 2 in the absorption tower, by heating the CO 2 absorption liquid with the steam to separate and
recover CO 2 in a gaseous state.
2.              The power generating system using low quality coal according to claim 1, further
comprising:
                a CO 2 transportation facility for transporting CO 2 recovered in the CO 2 recovery facility to
an oil production plant or a geological storage site.
3.              The power generating system using low quality coal according to claim 1, wherein:
                the low quality coal refining facility is provided near a coal mine from which the low
quality coal is produced.
4.              The power generating system using low quality coal according to claim 2, wherein:
                the low quality coal refining facility is provided near a coal mine from which the low
quality coal is produced.
5.              The power generating system using low quality coal according to claim 2, wherein:
                the CO 2 transportation facility is a pipeline that connects the low quality coal refining
facility with the CO 2 recovery facility.
                                                             13

I: \NZL\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\16729408_l.docx-3 04 2018
6.              The power generating system using low quality coal according to claim 3, wherein:
                the CO 2 transportation facility is a pipeline that connects the low quality coal refining
facility with the CO 2 recovery facility.
7.              The power generating system using low quality coal according to claim 4, wherein:
                the CO 2 transportation facility is a pipeline that connects the low quality coal refining
facility with the CO 2 recovery facility.
                                                              14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
