                                       19
ABSTRACT
An electric fence connector having live engagement means and live attachment
means and optionally isolated engagement means and isolated attachment
means.     The electric fence connector preferably has a maximum           lateral
dimension such as to allow it to pass through an aperture of an electric fence
standard. In one aspect this may be achieved by longitudinally offsetting the live
engagement means and isolated engagement means.
The electric fence connector may be formed by injection moulding plastics
material around a conductive element so as easily and inexpensively form a
compact a rugged connector.

                        1/3
                21            3
                   12
      9    gg10
                                12
                                   13
12
   15   19
                    FIGURE 1
                            1
                      FIGURE 2

                                            1
                            AN ELECTRIC FENCE CONNECTOR
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5 The present invention relates to an electric fence connector.
   BACKGROUND ART
   Electric fences are in wide spread use in a number of applications. These are a
10 particularly important tool in farming applications due to their flexibility and ease
   of use.
   A connector (an electric fence connector or handle) is commonly provided to
   enable a person to releasably secure an electric fence wire to a connection point,
15 such as a fence post or standard. The connector includes a grip that is made
   from an insulating material. This ensures that a person is not exposed to electric
   shocks.
   The connectors are usually either insulated or conductive.
20
   An insulated connector has an engagement means and a barrier attachment
   means at either ends of the body. An electric fence wire or ribbon can be
   secured to the barrier attachment means, while the engagement means can
   engage a component of a fencing system.          The engagement means and the
25 barrier attachment means are isolated from each other. Therefore the connector
   does not transmit electricity between the engagement means and the barrier
   attachment means of the electric fence assembly.

                                            2
   A conductive connector also has an engagement means and a barrier attachment
   means. However, the engagement means and the barrier attachment means are
   both conductors, and are conductively connected to each other. This may be
   achieved by a conductive material disposed within the connector body. Typically
 5 a connector body is formed from an insulating material and a conductive
   element is passed through an aperture in the body. This construction is prone to
   breakage, due to being run over etc. as well as posing a hazard where the
   connector may become electrified when the aperture in the connector fills with
   water. Such connectors are also bulky and are too wide to pass through the
10 pigtail of a pigtail standard.
   Conventional industry wisdom is that conductive and insulated connectors need
   to be separate devices. This may be for a number of reasons, including that it is
   considered difficult to separate the two functions of the connector e.g. there was
15 no guarantee that the connector would not inadvertently conduct electricity
   when being used as an insulated connector.
   The consequence of having separate insulated and conductive connectors is
   obvious. Firstly, farmers would need to purchase and maintain twice as many
20 components. Therefore, the currently available products may be expensive.
   A further disadvantage of the existing devices is that it is necessary to change
   connectors when changing the configuration of a fence e.g. a person needs to
   remove an insulated connector and replace it with a conductive connector,
25 where they want to achieve a different function.         This can be fiddly, time
   consuming, and frustrating.

                                             3
   Whilst one product has adjacent insulated and conductive hooks at one end the
   design is bulky and fragile, cannot pass through a pigtail of a pigtail standard and
   does not allow isolated or conductive connection at the other end.
 5 Accordingly, it would be advantageous to provide an electric fence connector
   which overcomes some of the aforementioned problems or which will at least
   provide the public with a useful choice.
   All references, including any patents or patent applications cited in this
10 specification are hereby incorporated by reference. No admission is made that
   any reference constitutes prior art. The discussion of the references states what
   their authors understand and assert, and the applicants reserve the right to
   challenge the accuracy and pertinence of the cited documents. It will be clearly
   understood that, although a number of prior art publications are referred to
15 herein, this reference does not constitute an admission that any of these
   documents form part of the common general knowledge in the art, in New
   Zealand or in any other country.
   Throughout this specification, the word "comprise", or variations thereof such as
20 "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
   stated element, integer or step, or group of elements integers or steps, but not
   the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements,
   integers or steps.
25 Further aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent
   from the ensuing description which is given by way of example only.

                                            4
   DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
   According to a first aspect there is provided an electric fence connector,
   including:
 5       An elongate body having live engagement means at one end and a live
         barrier attachment means at the other end wherein:
         the live engagement means and live barrier attachment means are
         conductively connected; and
         the electric fence connector is dimensioned such as to allow it to pass
10       through an aperture of an electric fence standard.
   According to another aspect there is provided an electric fence connector,
   including:
         An elongate body having live engagement means and isolated engagement
15       means at one end and a live barrier attachment means at the other end
         wherein:
         the live engagement means and live barrier attachment means are
         conductively connected and the isolated engagement means is electrically
         isolated from the live engagement means and live barrier attachment
20       means; and
         the electric fence connector is dimensioned such as to allow it to pass
         through an aperture of an electric fence standard.
   The connector may have a maximum lateral dimension of less than 42mm
25 (preferably less than 40mm and most preferably less than 35mm) so that it may
   pass through the pigtail of a standard pigtail standard.
   According to a further aspect there is provided an electric fence connector,
   including:

                                            5
         An elongate body having live engagement means and isolated engagement
          means at one end and a live barrier attachment means at the other end
         wherein:
         the live engagement means and live barrier attachment means are
 5       conductively connected and the isolated engagement means is electrically
         isolated from the live engagement means and live barrier attachment
          means; and
         the live engagement      means    and    isolated engagement     means are
          longitudinally offset.
10
   The aforementioned electric fence connector may also include an isolated barrier
   attachment means.
   According to a another aspect there is provided an electric fence connector,
15 including an elongate body having live engagement means at one end and live
   and isolated barrier attachment means for attachment to a barrier element at
   the other end wherein the live engagement and live barrier attachment means
   are conductively connected and the isolated barrier attachment means is
   electrically isolated from the live engagement and live barrier attachment
20 means.
   The isolated barrier attachment means may be formed by two or more
   (preferably 3 or more) apertures provided in the body to allow a barrier element
   to be secured to the connector. The live barrier attachment means may be
25 formed by a conductive element bridging an aperture in the body.               The
   apertures may be in the form of slots to facilitate attachment to a ribbon or tape
   barrier.

                                              6
   The body of the connector may be curved so as to, in use, keep live fencing
   components away from a user and may include a grip to receive the fingers of a
   user and a raised portion which may engage the thumb of the user.
 5 A notch may be formed in the body adapted to hold the fence connector on a
   barrier line.
   The connector may be formed by injection moulding of plastics material such as
   high density polyethylene or polypropylene.
10
   According to a further aspect there is provided a method of forming an electric
   fence connector including the steps of:
         providing a conductive element having a live engagement means at one
         end and at least part of a live barrier attachment means at the other end;
15       forming a body of the electric fence connector by injection moulding
         plastics material around the conductive element so as to form an electric
         fence connector having a live engagement means at one end and a live
         barrier attachment means at the other end.
20 The conductive element is held in position (for example using magnetism) within
   a mould and plastics is moulded around it.
   Throughout the present specification, reference to the term "connector" should
   be understood as meaning a device which can releasably secure a barrier
25 element to another part of a fencing assembly. The aspects of the connector
   should become clearer from the following description.

                                           7
   Throughout the present specification, reference to the term "live engagement
   means" should be understood as meaning a component of the connector which
   may be secured to a component of a fencing system.
 5 In a preferred embodiment, the live engagement means is configured to engage
   with a barrier element of a fencing assembly and thereby secure the connector
   to the barrier element.
   In a particularly preferred embodiment, the live engagement          means is
10 configured to releasably secure a connector to the barrier element.
   However, the forgoing should not be seen as limiting and the connector may be
   permanently (non-releasably) secured to the barrier element.
15 In a preferred embodiment, the live engagement may be a loop, hook, clamp,
   aperture or button type fastener. The live engagement means may be formed as
   a hook projecting from one end of the body. The hook may be generally V
   shaped hook with an internal angle of less than 40 (preferably less than 300)
   between V sections.
20
   The isolated engagement means may also be in the form of a hook formed in the
   body.
   The live and isolated engagement means may define a common mouth to be
25 passed through for engagement with either the live or isolated engagement
   means.

                                             8
   However, the forgoing should not be seen as limiting and alternatives for the live
   engagement means are envisaged as being within the scope of the present
   invention.
 5 In a particularly preferred embodiment, the live and isolated engagement means
   are loops, jaws, and/or hooks.
   However, the forgoing should not be seen as limiting on the scope of the present
   invention. It is also envisaged that the engagement or barrier attachment means
10 may be spring biased clamps, or any other embodiment suitable for use with the
   present invention.
   Throughout the present specification, reference to the term "conductively
   connected" should be understood as meaning capable of transmitting electricity
15 therebetween as required for an effective electrical connection in an electric
   fence system. Accordingly, it should be understood by one skilled in the art that
   the connector is able to conduct electricity between live engagement means and
   the live barrier attachment means.
20 Throughout the present specification reference to the term "insulated from"
   should be understood as meaning that the conductivity of the path is sufficiently
   low as to protect a user from electrical hazards associated with normal electric
   fence operation and insufficient to provide an effective electrical connection in
   an electric fence system.
25
   These aspects of the present invention should become clearer from the following
   description.

                                           9
   Throughout the present specification, reference to the term "connection point"
   should be understood as meaning a junction of an electric fence system to which
   the connector can be secured.
 5 The connection point may be a fencing standard, fence post, gate, or trough etc.,
   forming part of an electric fence assembly. In these embodiments, a connection
   point includes an engagement means complementary to an engagement means
   of a connector according to the present invention.
10 Throughout the present specification, reference to the term "barrier element"
   should be understood as meaning a component of a fencing system.
   In the particularly preferred embodiments of the present invention, the barrier
   elements may be an electric wire, or an electric fence ribbon or tape. These
15 aspects are as should be known to one skilled in the art.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the
20 following description which is given by way of example only and with reference
   to the accompanying drawings in which:
   Figure 1       is a left side view of a connector according to the present
                  invention;
25 Figure 2       is a right side view of a connector according to the present
                  invention;
   Figure 3       is a perspective view of a connector according to the present
                  invention;

                                              10
   Figure 4        is a first end view of a connector according to the present
                   invention;
   Figure 5        is a second end view of a connector according to the present
                   invention;
 5 Figure 6        illustrates the attachment of an electric fence ribbon to an isolated
                   barrier attachment means of a connector; and
   Figure 7        illustrates the attachment of an electric fence ribbon to a live
                   barrier attachment means of a connector.
10 BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
   There is provided an electric fence connector generally indicated in the Figures
   as (1).
15 Throughout the Figures like numerals refer to like components.
   The connector (1) includes an elongate body (2) formed from injection moulded
   plastic materials such as high density polyethylene or polypropylene.             The
   connector may be conveniently formed my holding a conductive element, for
20 example a length of bent stainless steel wire (12), within a mould and over
   moulding a plastics body (2).        The conductive element (12) may be held in
   position by mechanical or magnetic means.
    The body (2) includes a handle indicated generally by (3).          The handle (3)
25 includes a flat portion (4) configured to nest within the palm of a person's hand.
   The handle (3) also includes a plurality of recesses (5) into which a person's
   fingers may sit, as their hand surrounds the handle (3) and their thumb rests on a
   raised portion (21) . The handle (3) is shaped and configured so as to facilitate
   ease of use of the connector (1).       The handle (3) is also curved so that a live

                                             11
   barrier element attached to the connector and the live hook (15) drop away from
   a user's hand to reduce the risk of accidental electric shock. A notch (17) is also
   provided that may engage with a wire of a fence to enable the connector to rest
   on a fence without energising it.
 5
   First end (6) of body (2) is shaped to provide live and isolated barrier attachment
   means. A first aperture (7) integrally formed into the body (2) may provide an
   isolated barrier attachment means. However the provision of a further aperture
   (16) allows a barrier in the form of a ribbon (20) to be threaded through the
10 apertures (7), (8) and (16) in and over and under self-locking arrangement as
   shown in Figure 6.
   A conductive element (12) made from stainless steel wire is disposed within body
   (2). A first end (13) of the conductive element (12) extends into aperture (8).
15 Where a conductive connector is required a barrier element such as a barrier
   ribbon (20) may be threaded about end (13) and through apertures (7) and (16)
   to secure the barrier ribbon (20) to the connector (1) as shown in Figure 7.
   Second end (9) of body (2) includes a hook (10).
20
   A second end (14) of conductive element (12) extends out of body (2).           The
   second end (14) is bent into a V to form a hook (15) allowing releasable
   connection to a connection point of an electric fence system. The arms of the V
   of hook (15) are preferably disposed at an angle of less than 40 degrees to each
25 other, more preferably less than 30 degrees.
   The hooks (10, 15) are orientated so as to be facing in the same direction as is
   illustrated in Figure 1. Hook (10) may alternatively be provided by providing a
   rearward facing jaw (11) on forward jaw (18).      Forward jaw (18) and hook (15)

                                            12
   define a common opening (19) allowing hooks (10) and (15) to engage with
   connection points of an electric fence system whilst reducing the risk of the
   connector becoming snagged on an object. Opening (19) is preferably smaller
   than about 14mm and more preferably smaller than about 12mm so that it will
 5 not catch on a pigtail standard.
   The connector (1) is also dimensioned such as to allow it to pass through an
   aperture, such as a pigtail, of an electric fence standard. The maximum lateral
   dimension of the connector (1) is preferably less than 42mm to achieve this but
10 more preferably 40mm or even 35mm.          By longitudinally offsetting hooks (10)
   and (15) the maximum lateral dimension of the connector (1) can be kept within
   these bounds whilst providing hooks of suitable size.
   In Use
15
   The connector (1) can be used as either a conductive or insulated connector.
   This is best understood with reference to of the formation of an electric fence
   system (not shown in the Figures).
20 A person determines whether a conductive or insulated connector is required.
   As will be described an insulated connector may be achieved either by
   connection of a barrier in the form of an electric wire or electric fence ribbon to
   an isolated barrier attachment means as shown In Figure 6 or by using the
   isolated hook (10) at the other end.
25
   Where a conductive connector is required, the hook (15) is used to engage with a
   connection point on a fence post or other component of the electric fence
   assembly.    It should be noted that the barrier element should engage or

                                            13
   otherwise touch portion (13) of conductive element (12) as shown in Figure 7
   where a conductive connector is required
   An insulated connector may also be achieved by engaging hook (10) with a
 5 connection point of an electric fence system.
   It should be appreciated from the forgoing description that the present invention
   includes a number of advantages. These include but are not limited to:
         - Minimising the number of components in an electric fence assembly.
10       - Facilitating the provision of different and more flexible electric fence
           assemblies than are currently available.
         - Ease of incorporation into, and retrofitting to, existing electric fence
           assemblies.
         - Combining a live and insulated connector in a single connector.
15      - A connector shaped and configured so as to be capable of being wound
           into fencing wire and attached to a fencing standard so as to provide an
           easily storable device.
       e   The low profile allows the connector to pass through pigtail standards
       e   The curved connector keeps a user's wrist above live wire and reduces
20         the risk of electric shock
       e   Providing an acute angle hook avoids easy dislodgement
       *   Providing a notch allows the connector to be secured safely to fence
       e   The forward jaw prevents the hooks becoming engaged on obstacles in
           use; assists as a guide to engage with the hooks; and acts as a guide that
25         protects against electric shock
       e   Forming the connector by over-moulding:
               o   Provides a robust connector that can withstand impact;
               o   Avoids water retention and risk of electrification of the connector;
                    and

                                          14
             o  Simplifies manufacture
      e  Providing insulated or live connections at either end of the connector
  Aspects of the present invention have been described by way of example only
5 and it should be appreciated that modifications and additions may be made
  thereto without departing from the scope thereof.

                                          15
Claims
    1. A method of forming an electric fence connector including the steps of:
            a. providing a conductive element having a live engagement means
                at one end and at least part of a live barrier attachment means at
                the other end;
            b. forming a body of the electric fence connector by injection
                moulding plastics material around the conductive element so as to
                form an electric fence connector having a live engagement means
                at one end and a live barrier attachment means at the other end.
    2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the conductive element is held in
       position within a mould and plastics is moulded around it.
    3. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the conductive element is held
       utilising magnetism.
    4. An electric fence connector formed by the method of any one of the
       preceding claims.
  5. An electric fence connector including:
            a. a conductive element including live engagement means at one end
                and at least part of a live barrier attachment means at the other
                end; and
            b. an elongate over-moulded plastics body formed around the
                conductive element so that the live engagement means is
                provided at one end of the body and the at least part of a live
                barrier attachment means isformed at the other end.

                                       16
  6. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 5 wherein the electric
      fence connector has a maximum lateral dimension of less than 42mm.
7. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 6 including an isolated
    engagement means at the one end that is electrically isolated from the live
    engagement means and live barrier attachment means.
8. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 having a
    maximum lateral dimension of less than 40mm.
9. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 8 having a
    maximum lateral dimension of less than 35mm.
10. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 9 including
    an isolated barrier attachment means.
11. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 10 wherein the isolated
    barrier attachment means is formed by two or more apertures provided in
    the body to allow a barrier element to be secured to the connector.
12. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 10 wherein the isolated
    barrier attachment means is formed by three or more apertures provided
    in the body to allow a barrier element to be secured to the connector.
13. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12
    wherein the live barrier attachment means is in the form of a conductive
    element bridging an aperture in the body.

                                       17
14. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 13
    wherein each aperture is in the form of a slot.
15. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 14 wherein
    the body is curved so as to, in use, keep live fencing components away
    from a user.
16. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 15
    including a grip adapted to receive the fingers of a user.
17. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 16 wherein
    the live engagement means is formed as a hook projecting from one end of
    the body.
18. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 17 wherein the hook is a
    generally V shaped hook.
19. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 18 wherein the hook has an
    internal angle of less than 40 between V sections.
20. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 18 wherein the hook has an
    internal angle of less than 30 between V sections.
21. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 20 when
    dependent upon claim 2 wherein the isolated engagement means is in the
    form of a hook formed in the body.

                                       18
22. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 21 wherein the live and
    isolated engagement means define a common mouth to be passed through
    for engagement with either the live or isolated engagement means.
23. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 22
    including a notch formed in the body adapted to hold the fence connector
    on a barrier line.
24. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 23 wherein
    the body is formed of high density polyethylene.
25. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 23 wherein
    the body is formed of polypropylene.
26. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 22 wherein the mouth is
    less than 14 mm.
27. An electric fence connector as claimed in claim 22 wherein the mouth is
    less than 12 mm.
28. An electric fence connector as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
    including a raised portion on the body to engage with the thumb of a user.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
