                                           ABSTRACT
   A head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a respiratory
   gases stream to a user.     The head-mounted respiratory assistance has a main body
 5 securable to the head of a user and a blower unit that is operable to generate a pressurised
   gases stream from a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere. A patient interface
   is provided on the main body that has a gases inlet which is fluidly connected to the blower
   unit and which is configured to deliver the pressurised gases to the user's nose and/or
   mouth.
10
                                              -62-

     1/42
C14C

                           RESPIRATORY ASSISTANCE APPARATUS
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           This invention relates to a respiratory assistance apparatus that provides a stream
   of gases to a user for therapeutic purposes.      In particular, although not exclusively, the
 5 respiratory assistance apparatus may provide respiratory assistance to patients or users
   who require a supply of gases for respiratory therapies such as Positive Airway Pressure
   (PAP) therapies, including but not limited to Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP)
   therapy, Bi-level Positive Airway Pressure (Bi-PAP) therapy, and Oral Positive Airway
   Pressure (OPAP) therapy, and which are typically used for the treatment of diseases such
10 as Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA), snoring, or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
   (COPD).
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Respiratory or breathing assistance devices or systems for providing a flow of
   humidified and heated gases to a patient for therapeutic purposes are well known in the
15 art. Systems for providing therapy of this type (for example respiratory humidification)
   typically have a structure where gases are delivered to a humidifier chamber from a gases
   source, such as a blower (also known as a compressor, an assisted breathing unit, a fan
   unit, a flow generator or a pressure generator). As the gases pass over the hot water, or
   through the heated and humidified air in the humidifier chamber, they become saturated
20 with water vapour.     The heated and humidified gases are then delivered to a user or
   patient downstream from the humidifier chamber, via a patient interface comprising a
   flexible gases conduit and a patient interface.
           In one form, such respiratory assistance systems can be modular systems that
   comprise a humidifier unit and a blower unit that are separate (modular) items.            The
25 modules are connected in series via connection conduits to allow gases to pass from the
   blower unit to the humidifier unit.    For example, Figure 1 shows a schematic view of a
   user 1 receiving a stream of heated and humidified air from a modular respiratory
   assistance system. Pressurised air is provided from an assisted breathing unit or blower
   unit 2a via a connector conduit 7 to a humidifier chamber 4a. The stream of humidified,
30 heated and pressurised air exits the humidification chamber 4a via a flexible hose or gases
   conduit 3, and is provided to the patient or user 1 via a patient interface 5.
           In an alternative form, the respiratory assistance systems can be integrated
   systems in which the blower unit and the humidifier unit are contained within the same
   housing. A typical integrated system consists of a main blower unit or assisted breathing
35 unit which provides a pressurised gases flow, and a humidifier unit that mates with or is
                                                 -1-

   otherwise rigidly connected to the blower unit.    Figure 2 shows a schematic view of the
   user 1 receiving heated and humidified air from an integrated respiratory assistance
   system 6.    The system operates in the same manner as the modular system shown in
   Figure 1, except the humidification chamber 4b has been integrated with the blower unit
 5 to form the integrated system 6.
           The patient interface 5 shown in Figures 1 and 2 is a nasal mask, covering the nose
   of the user 1. However, it should be noted that in systems of these types, a mask that
   covers the mouth and nose, a full face mask, a nasal cannula, or any other suitable patient
   interface could be substituted for the nasal mask shown. A mouth-only interface or oral
10 mask could also be used. Also, the patient or user end of the conduit can be connected
   to a tracheostomy fitting, or an endotracheal intubation.
           Impeller type fans or blowers are most commonly used in respiratory assistance
   systems of this type. An impeller blade unit is contained within an impeller housing. The
   impeller blade unit is connected to a drive of some form by a central spindle. A typical
15 impeller housing is shown in Figures 3 and 4. A typical rotating impeller unit 10, having
   a plurality of blades 11 and a shroud 12, which in use is located inside the housing is
   shown in Figures 5 and 6.     Air is drawn into the centre of the impeller unit through an
   aperture, and is then forced outwards from the centre of the housing towards an exit
   passage (usually located to one side of the housing) by the blades of the rotating impeller
20 unit. The blades 11 are coupled to the central spindle 13, which is rotated by a motor for
   example.
           The respiratory assistance systems of the type described above typically present
   various problems or challenges to the manufacturer from a design viewpoint, some of
   which are briefly outlined below.
25         Effective respiratory therapy often requires a user to use respiratory assistance
   systems of the type described above on a daily basis for long periods of time.       For the
   treatment of OSA, the user needs to use the respiratory assistance system at night when
   they are asleep. Patient comfort and convenience when using such respiratory assistance
   systems is paramount to compliant and effective treatment.       Mask leaks are a common
30 complaint of user's of the above type of respiratory assistance systems.    Mask leaks are
   typically caused by the flexible gases conduit 3 tugging on the patient interface or mask
   5 when the user moves in their sleep.
           Most respiratory assistance systems of the type described above for treating OSA
   with PAP therapy provide a gas supply to the patient interface but have no return path for
35 gases from the interface.     To eliminate the build-up of carbon dioxide in the patient
                                                -2-

   interface, the patient interface requires a gas washout vent for venting exhaled gases to
   atmosphere, and this is often referred to as the 'bias flow'.      The bias flow represents a
   loss in the gases supply circuit and the blower unit must have a motor that is powerful
   enough to maintain the bias flow while also generating the desired gas pressure at the
 5 patient interface. The gas washout vent can also become a source of noise and a source
   of discernable draughts.      Excessive noise can be irritating for the patient and their bed
   partner. Depending on their location, draughts can also be annoying to the patient.
            Humidification of the gases in the respiratory assistance systems also adds to the
   design complexity. For example, heating of the gases conduit 3 of the patient interface is
10 often required to prevent condensation forming in the gases conduit.
            In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
   providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission
15 that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or
   form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
            It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved respiratory
   assistance apparatus, or to at least provide the public with a useful choice.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20          In a first aspect, the invention broadly consists in a head-mountable respiratory
   assistance apparatus configured to provide a respiratory gases stream to a user,
   comprising: a patient interface; and a blower unit comprising a lightweight impeller, the
   blower unit being fixedly or releasably mounted to the front of the patient interface and
   having a gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere and
25 being operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at a gases outlet, and wherein the
   patient interface has a gases inlet which is fluidly connected to the gases outlet of the
   blower unit and which is configured to deliver the pressurised gases to the user's nose
   and/or mouth via one or more gases outlets, and wherein a gases flow path from the
   gases inlet of the blower unit to the gases outlet(s) of the patient interface is substantially
30 sealed such that there is zero bias flow along the gases flow path, and wherein the
   apparatus is configured so that excess exhaled gases from the user vent back through the
   gases flow path in the opposite direction of the pressurised gases stream and exit the
   head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus into the atmosphere from the gases
   inlet of the blower unit.
                                                 -3-

           In an embodiment, the gases flow path volume between the gases inlet of the
   blower unit and the gases outlet(s) of the patient interface is less than approximately
   200mL.
           In an embodiment, the gases flow path volume between the gases inlet of the
 5 blower unit and the gases outlet of the patient interface is in the range of approximately
   50mL to approximately 150mL.
           In an embodiment,      the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises
   headgear that is configured to secure the apparatus to the head of a user, the headgear
   comprising one or more headstraps.
10         In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises one or
   more onboard power supply modules that are configured to supply power to the apparatus,
   and wherein the power supply modules are mounted to or integrated with the headgear.
           In an embodiment, one or more pockets are provided within the headstrap(s)
   within which the one or more power supply module(s) are retained. In an embodiment,
15 the pocket(s) are openable to enable removal of the power supply module(s).
           In an embodiment, the power supply module(s) are releasably mounted to a part
   of the headgear such that they are detachable from the headgear.
           In an embodiment, the power supply module(s) comprise one or more energy
   storage devices selected from the following: batteries, fuel cells, and/or capacitors.
20         In an embodiment, the lightweight impeller of the blower unit is shroudless.
           In an embodiment, the blower unit further comprises a casing having upper and
   lower internal surfaces that enclose the impeller, and wherein the impeller has a plurality
   of blades that are substantially open to the upper and lower internal surfaces of the casing
   by virtue of being shroudless.
25         In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises an
   onboard electronic controller that is mounted to or within the respiratory assistance
   apparatus and which is operable to control the pressure of respiratory gases delivered to
   the user by controlling the blower unit.
           In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises one or
30 more sensors mounted to or within the respiratory assistance apparatus that are
   configured to sense operational parameters and generate representative sensor signals.
           In an embodiment, the one or more sensors are wireless sensors.
           In an embodiment, the one or more wireless sensor are configured to send the
   generated sensor signals to the controller.
                                                -4-

           In an embodiment, the one or more wireless sensors are configured to transmit,
   directly or indirectly, the generated sensor signals wirelessly to a separate external device
   or system.
           In an embodiment, the one or more wireless sensors are powered wirelessly by a
 5 wireless power transfer system that is wirelessly connected to the respiratory assistance
   apparatus.
           In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises a
   wireless communication module that is operable to receive and send data to external
   devices and/or systems.
10         In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus comprises one or more
   sensors that are configured to sense operational parameters and generate representative
   sensor signals, and wherein the communication           module is configured to send the
   generated sensor signals to a separate external device or system.
           In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises an
15 onboard electronic controller that is configured to store usage data indicative of the user's
   use of the respiratory assistance apparatus, and wherein the communication module is
   configured to transfer the usage data wirelessly to a separate external device or system.
           In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises an
   onboard wireless power transfer receiver that is configured to receive power from a
20 wireless power transfer transmitter.
           In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises an
   onboard power supply module.
           In an embodiment, the apparatus is configured as a positive airway pressure (PAP)
   device.
25         In an embodiment, the patient interface comprises a nasal mask that is configured
   to sealingly engage with the user's face so as to cover their nose.
           In an embodiment, the patient interface comprises any one of the following: a full
   face mask configured to sealingly engage with the user's face so as to cover their nose
   and mouth; a nasal pillows mask that sealingly engages the user's nostrils; an unsealed
30 nasal cannula that is configured to be positioned inside the user's nostrils; or an oral
   interface that is configured to sealingly engage with or within the user's mouth.
           In a second aspect, the invention broadly consists in a respiratory assistance
   system comprising: a head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to the
   first aspect of the invention; and a wireless power supply system that is configured to
35 supply power wirelessly to the respiratory assistance apparatus.
                                                -5-

           In an embodiment, the wireless power supply is configured to supply power to the
   respiratory assistance apparatus for powering of the blower unit.
           In an embodiment, the respiratory assistance apparatus comprises one or more
   sensors that are configured to sense various operational parameters and generate
 5 representative sensor signals, and wherein the wireless power supply is configured to
   supply power to the sensors.
           In a third aspect, the invention broadly consists in a respiratory assistance system
   comprising a head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to the first
   aspect of the invention that is configured to be operatively connectable to a separate base
10 station, the base station comprising: a power supply system that is operable to supply
   power to the respiratory assistance apparatus; a data transfer system that is operable to
   send and receive data to and from the respiratory assistance apparatus; and a control
   system that is operable to control the respiratory assistance apparatus via control signals.
           In an embodiment, the power supply system of the base station is configured to
15 transfer power to the respiratory assistance apparatus via one or more power transfer
   cables.
           In an embodiment, the power supply system of the base station comprises wireless
   power transfer circuitry that is configured to transfer power to the respiratory assistance
   apparatus wirelessly.
20         In an embodiment, the data transfer system of the base station comprises a first
   communication module that is operable to transfer data between the base station and the
   respiratory assistance apparatus over a wired or wireless communication medium.
           In an embodiment, the data transfer system of the base station further comprises
   a second communication module that is operable to transfer data between the base station
25 and an external server over a wired or wireless communication medium.
           In an embodiment, the control system of the base station is operable to send
   control signals to the respiratory assistance apparatus to control any one or more of the
   following operational modes: on/off mode, charging mode, drying mode, and/or data
   transfer mode.
30         In an embodiment, the control system of the base station is configured to
   automatically send control signals to the respiratory assistance apparatus to control one
   or more operational modes based on whether an operative connection between the base
   station and the respiratory assistance apparatus is detected.
           In another aspect, also described is a head-mounted respiratory assistance
35 apparatus configured to provide a respiratory gases stream to a user, comprising: a main
                                                -6-

   body securable to the head of a user; a blower unit provided on the main body having a
   gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere and which is
   operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at a gases outlet; and a patient interface
   provided on the main body having a gases inlet which is fluidly connected via a gases flow
 5 path to the gases outlet of the blower unit and which is configured to deliver the
   pressurised gases to the user's nose and/or mouth via one or more gases outlets, and
   wherein the gases flow path from the gases inlet of the blower unit to the gases outlet(s)
   of the patient interface is substantially sealed such that there is zero bias flow along the
   gases flow path, and wherein the blower unit comprises a lightweight impeller, and a
10 motor with a rotatable drive shaft that is configured to rotate the impeller.
           Preferably, the apparatus may be configured to passively humidify and warm the
   pressurised respiratory gases in the gases flow path via accumulated heat and moisture
   build up within at least a portion of the gases flow path. In one form, the gases flow path
   may be configured to accumulate heat and moisture build-up within at least a portion of
15 the air flow path from exhaled gases from the user flowing back into the gases flow path
   from the patient interface.
           Preferably, the apparatus may further comprise one or more heat and moisture
   exchangers (HMEs) in the gases flow path of the respiratory assistance apparatus.
           Preferably, the gases or air flow path is provided through the respiratory device
20 between the gases inlet of the blower unit and an outlet or opening of the patient interface.
           Preferably, excess exhaled gases from the user may vent back through the air flow
   path in the opposite direction of the pressurised gases stream and exit the respiratory
   assistance apparatus into the atmosphere from the gases inlet of the blower unit.
   Preferably, the gases flow path volume or 'deadspace' between the gases inlet of the
25 blower unit and the gases outlet(s) of the patient interface may be less than approximately
   200mL, and more preferably in the range of approximately 50mL to approximately 150mL.
           Preferably, the apparatus may be configured to be operatively connectable to a
   separate base station, the base station comprising: a power supply system that is operable
   to supply power to the respiratory assistance apparatus; a data transfer system that is
30 operable to send and receive data to and from the respiratory assistance apparatus; and
   a control system that is operable to control the respiratory assistance apparatus via control
   signals.
           Preferably, the apparatus may further comprise headgear that is configured to
   secure or mount the main body to the head of a user, the headgear comprising one or
35 more headstraps.     In one form, the headgear may comprise an upper headstrap that is
                                                 -7-

   connected to an upper part of the respiratory assistance apparatus and is configured to
   extend around an upper part of the user's head; and a lower headstrap that is connected
   to a lower part of the respiratory assistance apparatus and is configured to extend around
   a lower part of the user's head, and wherein the headgear is configured to locate the main
 5 body of the respiratory assistance apparatus in the region of user's face.
           In one form, the headgear may be fully flexible or formed substantially from flexible
   components.     In another form, the headgear may be semi-rigid in that it may comprise
   one or more rigid components, such as but not limited to the various headgear
   embodiments described in published patent application W02012/140514, the contents of
10 which are herein incorporated by reference.
           Preferably, the respiratory assistance apparatus may comprise one or more
   onboard power supply modules that are configured to supply power to the apparatus, and
   wherein the power supply modules are mounted to or integrated with the headgear.
   Alternatively, the power supply modules may be otherwise head-mounted with the
15 respiratory assistance apparatus, such as mounted to or integrated with the main body or
   blower unit of the respiratory assistance apparatus. Preferably, the power supply modules
   are connected to the respiratory assistance apparatus by a power cable or cables. In one
   form, the power supply module(s) may be detachable or releasable from the respiratory
   assistance apparatus.
20         Alternatively or additionally, the power supply module(s) may be a separate non
   head-mounted portable module that is connected to the respiratory device by a power
   cable. Alternatively or additionally, the respiratory assistance apparatus            may  be
   configured to connect to an AC power adaptor for a supply of power.
           In one form, one or more pockets are provided within the headstrap(s) within which
25 the one or more power supply module(s) are retained. Preferably, the pocket(s) may be
   openable to enable removal of the power supply module(s). In another form, the power
   supply module(s) may be releasably mounted to a part of the headgear such that they
   are detachable from the headgear. In another form, the power supply module(s) may be
   provided within a flexible package secured to the headgear and which is configured to
30 extend at least partially over the top of the user's head.   Preferably, the flexible package
   may be secured to one or more of the headstraps of the headgear by a base layer of
   flexible material.
           Preferably, the headgear may further comprise one or more shielding plates located
   between the one or more power supply modules and the surface of the user's head when
35 the headgear is worn by a user.
                                                -8-

           Preferably, the power supply module(s) comprise any one or more energy storage
   devices selected from the following:        batteries or battery   packs (rechargeable   or
   disposable), fuel cells, and/or capacitors.
           Preferably, the lightweight impeller of the blower unit may be shroudless or
 5 otherwise have reduced material.
           In one embodiment, a distal end of the impeller blades curve in the direction of
   blade rotation. In another embodiment, the impeller blades curve in the opposite direction
   of blade rotation.
           In some embodiments, the impeller is formed in one piece.
10         In some embodiments, the impeller comprises a radius of between 15 and 60 mm.
           In some embodiments, the impeller has a mass of less than 2 grams and preferably
   between 0.8 and 1.8 grams.
           In some embodiments, the impeller is configured to have a pressure to inertia to
   radius ratio greater than 50:1 Pa per gram*mm, and preferably greater than 80:1 Pa per
15 gram*mm.
           In some embodiments, the impeller is configured to have a moment of inertia to
   radius ratio less than 15 g*mm and preferably within the range of 8 to 12 g*mm.
           In some embodiments, the impeller is configured to have a blade sweep volume to
   a blade volume ratio of 16:1 or greater.
20         Preferably, the blower unit may further comprise a casing having upper and lower
   internal surfaces that enclose the impeller, and wherein the impeller has a plurality of
   blades that are substantially open to the upper and lower internal surfaces of the casing
   by virtue of being shroudless or otherwise having reduced material.       In one form, the
   casing forms part of or is integrated with the respiratory assistance apparatus.
25         Preferably, the blower unit may further comprise a partition to define first and
   second interior regions within the casing, the first region being defined by the casing and
   the partition and comprising the gases inlet and motor, the second region being defined
   by the casing and the partition and comprising the impeller, and wherein the first and
   second regions are fluidly connected by an opening formed in or by the partition.
30         Preferably, the impeller may have an axis of rotation, the partition extending
   radially from the axis of rotation.
           Preferably, the casing of the blower unit may further comprise a volute that is
   fluidly connected to the second region by an air passage, and wherein the gases outlet of
   the blower unit is proximate the periphery of the volute.
                                                -9-

           In a first form, the blower unit may comprise a motor comprising: a stator, and at
   least one bearing structure to support the rotatable drive shaft within the stator, the
   bearing structure comprising one or more bearings that are supported by one or more
   bearing mounts about the axis of the rotatable drive shaft.         Preferably the bearing
 5 mount(s) provide compliant support to the rotatable shaft.
           Preferably, the stator may comprise a stator frame, and an outer portion of the
   one or more bearing mounts engages the stator and/or an inner surface of the stator
   frame.    In one form, an outer portion of the one or more bearing mounts engages the
   stator and/or a stator frame and/or other structure.
10         Preferably, the blower unit may further comprise a motor mount that couples the
   stator and the casing to provide compliant support to the motor.
           Preferably the bearing mount and/or motor mount are flexible and/or resilient.
           Preferably the bearing mount is made from a material that provides resilience
   and/or flexibility to provide preload when in the engaged configuration.
15         Preferably the bearing mounts are made from a material that provides damping.
           Preferably, the bearing mounts may be flexible and/or resilient, and wherein the
   bearing mounts may have a curved annular body and when engaged with the stator and/or
   stator frame the annular body is coerced into an engaged configuration that provides
   preload to the one or more bearings.
20         Preferably the motor is operated using field oriented control.
           In one form, the rotatable drive shaft may be plastic. Preferably, the motor may
   further comprise a rotor within the stator, and wherein the plastic rotatable drive shaft is
   formed and coupled to the rotor by injection moulding. In one form, Preferably the motor
   comprises a plastic rotatable shaft extending through an opening in a magnet rotor and
25 being coupled thereto.
           Also described is a method of manufacturing a shaft and rotor assembly for a motor
   comprising: inserting a rotor with a central opening into a first mould part, supporting a
   shaft extended through the central opening, coupling a second mould part to the first
   mould part to create a mould cavity around the central opening, injection moulding a
30 plastic insert between the plastic shaft and the central opening to couple the plastic shaft
   to the rotor.
           Also described is a method of manufacturing a shaft and rotor assembly for a motor
   comprising: inserting a rotor with a central opening into a first mould part, coupling a
   second mould part to the first mould part to create a mould cavity around the central
                                               -10-

   opening, injection moulding a plastic shaft that extends through and couples to the central
   opening of the rotor.
           In a second form, the blower unit comprises: a motor comprising a rotatable shaft
   located within a stator, a bearing structure to support the rotatable shaft in the stator, the
 5 bearing structure having one or more bearing mounts.
           In a third form, the blower unit may comprise: a centrifugal impeller driven by a
   motor within a casing, the casing having a gases inlet, a gases outlet and a partition (or
   divider) to define first and second interior regions wherein the first and second regions
   are fluidly connected by an opening in the partition.
10         In a fourth form, the blower unit may comprise: a motor with a rotatable shaft and
   at least one bearing structure to support the rotatable shaft within a stator, the bearing
   structure having one or more flexible and/or resilient bearing           mounts to provide
   compliance and/or preload and/or damping for the rotatable shaft, a lightweight impeller
   coupled to the rotatable shaft, a flexible and/or resilient motor mount that couples the
15 stator and the housing to provide compliance and/or damping for the motor a partition to
   define first and second interior regions within the housing, wherein the first and second
   regions are fluidly connected by opening formed in or by the partition.
           In a fifth form, the blower unit comprises: a gases inlet, a gases outlet, a motor
   with a shaft, and a lightweight impeller connected to the motor and rotatable to draw
20 gases from the inlet and emit gases through the outlet, wherein the impeller is shroudless
   or otherwise has reduced material.
           Each of the forms of the blower unit may additionally comprise any one or more
   features mentioned in respect to the other forms of the blower unit.
           Preferably, the respiratory assistance apparatus comprises an operable control
25 system having an onboard controller that is configured to control the blower unit to deliver
   the pressurised gases stream to the user at the desired pressure and/or flow rate during
   the user's breathing cycle. By way of example, the apparatus may comprise an onboard
   electronic controller that is mounted to or within the respiratory assistance apparatus and
   which is operable to control the pressure of respiratory gases delivered to the user by
30 controlling the motor speed within the blower unit.
           Preferably, the apparatus may further comprise one or more sensors mounted to
   or within the respiratory assistance apparatus that are configured to sense operational
   parameters and generate representative sensor signals for sending to the controller.
           Preferably, the apparatus may further comprise an onboard wireless power transfer
35 receiver that is configured to receive power from a wireless power transfer transmitter.
                                                -11-

            Preferably, the apparatus may further comprise an onboard power supply module.
            In one form, the blower unit may be releasably mounted to the main body.          In
   another form, the blower unit may be integrated with or fixed to the main body.
            In one form, the main body may comprise: a forehead support member that is
 5 configured to engage with the user's forehead; a mask body for receiving a mask seal
   assembly of the patient interface; a connecting member extending between the forehead
   support member and mask body, and a gases inlet that is fluidly connected to the gases
   outlet of the blower unit. Preferably, the forehead support member of the main body may
   be horizontally oriented and the connecting member extends centrally from the forehead
10 support member in a vertical orientation such that the members together form a T-shaped
   part (or T-piece), and wherein the blower unit is mounted to the T-shaped part. In one
   form, the blower unit may be provided on or may be mounted to the forehead support
   member of the main body such that it is located in the user's forehead region when in use.
            In one form, the apparatus is configured as a positive airway pressure (PAP) device.
15 For example, the apparatus may be configured to operate as a CPAP device, Bi-PAP device,
   or any other PAP device.
            In one form, the patient interface is releasably mounted to the main body.        In
   another form, the patient interface is integrated with or fixed to the main body.
            In one form, the patient interface may comprise a nasal mask that is configured to
20 sealingly engage with the user's face so as to cover their nose.
            In another form, the patient interface may comprise any one of the following: a
   full face mask configured to sealingly engage with the user's face so as to cover their nose
   and mouth; a nasal pillows mask that sealingly engages the user's nostrils; an unsealed
   nasal cannula that is configured to be positioned inside the user's nostrils; or an oral
25 interface that is configured to sealingly engage with or within the user's mouth.
            Preferably, the main body may further comprise a gases passage or conduit that
   fluidly connects the gases outlet of the blower unit to the gases inlet of the patient
   interface, and wherein the gases passages forms part of the gases flow path.
            In one form, the main body may be configured to mount or locate the blower unit
30 in the forehead region of the user's face and patient interface in the nose and/or mouth
   region of the user's face, when the apparatus is worn in use.       Alternatively, the blower
   unit may be fixedly or releasably mounted to the front of the patient interface (e.g. mask).
            In another aspect, also described is a base station that is operatively connectable
   to a head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a respiratory
35 gases stream to a user, the head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus comprising:
                                                 -12-

   a main body securable to the head of a user; a blower unit provided on the main body
   having a gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere and
   which is operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at a gases outlet; and a patient
   interface provided on the main body having a gases inlet which is fluidly connected via a
 5 flow path to the gases outlet of the blower unit and which is configured to deliver the
   pressurised gases to the user's nose and/or mouth via one or more gases outlets, the
   base station comprising: a power supply system that is operable to supply power to the
   respiratory assistance apparatus; a data transfer system that is operable to send and
   receive data to and from the respiratory assistance apparatus; and a control system that
10 is operable to control the respiratory assistance apparatus via control signals.
           In one form, the power supply system may be configured to transfer power to the
   respiratory assistance apparatus via one or more power transfer cables.
           In another form, the power supply system may comprise wireless power transfer
   circuitry that is configured to transfer power to the respiratory assistance apparatus
15 wirelessly.
           Preferably, the data transfer system may comprise a first communication module
   that is operable to transfer data between the base station and the respiratory assistance
   apparatus over a wired or wireless communication medium.
           Preferably, the data transfer system may further comprise a second communication
20 module that is operable to transfer data between the base station and an external server
   over a wired or wireless communication medium.
           Preferably, the control system may be operable to send control signals to the
   respiratory assistance apparatus to control any one or more of the following operational
   modes: on/off mode, charging mode, drying mode, and/or data transfer mode.
25         In one form, the control system may be configured to automatically send control
   signals to the respiratory assistance apparatus to control one or more operational modes
   based on whether an operative connection between the base station and the respiratory
   assistance apparatus is detected.
           In another aspect, also described is a respiratory assistance system comprising: a
30 head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a respiratory gases
   stream to a user, the head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus comprising: a main
   body securable to the head of a user; a blower unit provided on the main body having a
   gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere and which is
   operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at a gases outlet; and a patient interface
35 provided on the main body having a gases inlet which is fluidly connected via a flow path
                                                -13-

   to the gases outlet of the blower unit and which is configured to deliver the pressurised
   gases to the user's nose and/or mouth via one or more gases outlets; and a wireless
   power supply system that is configured to supply power wirelessly to the respiratory
   assistance apparatus.
 5         Preferably, the wireless power supply may be configured to supply power to the
   respiratory assistance apparatus for powering of the blower unit.
           Preferably, the respiratory assistance apparatus may comprise one or more sensors
   that are configured to sense various operational parameters and generate representative
   sensor signals, and wherein the wireless power supply is configured to supply power to
10 the sensors.
           In another aspect, also described is a respiratory assistance system comprising: a
   head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a respiratory gases
   stream to a user, the head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus comprising: a main
   body securable to the head of a user; a blower unit provided on the main body having a
15 gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere and which is
   operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at a gases outlet; and a patient interface
   provided on the main body having a gases inlet which is fluidly connected via a flow path
   to the gases outlet of the blower unit and which is configured to deliver the pressurised
   gases to the user's nose and/or mouth via one or more gases outlets; and one or more
20 wireless sensors mounted to or within the respiratory assistance apparatus that are
   configured to sense operational parameters and generate representative sensor signals.
           Preferably, the one or more wireless sensors may be configured to transmit,
   directly or indirectly, the generated sensor signals wirelessly to a separate external device
   or system.
25         Preferably, the one or more wireless sensors may be powered wirelessly by a
   wireless power transfer system that is wirelessly connected to the respiratory assistance
   apparatus
           In another aspect, also described is a respiratory assistance system comprising: a
   head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a respiratory gases
30 stream to a user, the head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus comprising: a main
   body securable to the head of a user; a blower unit provided on the main body having a
   gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere and which is
   operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at a gases outlet; and a patient interface
   provided on the main body having a gases inlet which is fluidly connected via a flow path
35 to the gases outlet of the blower unit and which is configured to deliver the pressurised
                                                -14-

   gases to the user's nose and/or mouth via one or more gases outlets; and a wireless
   communication module onboard the respiratory assistance apparatus that is operable to
   receive and send data to external devices and/or systems.
           Preferably, the respiratory assistance apparatus comprises one or more sensors
 5 that may be configured to sense operational parameters and generate representative
   sensor signals, and wherein the communication          module is configured to send the
   generated sensor signals to a separate external device or system.
           Preferably, the respiratory assistance apparatus may comprises an onboard
   electronic controller that is configured to store usage data indicative of the user's use of
10 the respiratory assistance apparatus, and         wherein  the communication     module   is
   configured to transfer the usage data wirelessly to a separate external device or system.
           In another aspect, also described is a head-mounted respiratory assistance
   apparatus configured to provide a respiratory gases stream to a user, the head-mounted
   respiratory assistance apparatus comprising: a main body securable to the head of a user;
15 a blower unit provided on the main body having a gases inlet to receive a supply of gases
   from the surrounding atmosphere and which is operable to generate a pressurised gases
   stream at a gases outlet; a patient interface provided on the main body having a gases
   inlet which is fluidly connected via a flow path to the gases outlet of the blower unit and
   which is configured to deliver the pressurised gases to the user's nose and/or mouth via
20 one or more gases outlets; and a head-mounted power supply that is configured to supply
   power to the respiratory device.
           In another aspect, also described is a head-mounted respiratory assistance
   apparatus configured to provide a respiratory gases stream to a user, comprising: a main
   body securable to the head of a user; a blower unit provided on the main body having a
25 gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the surrounding atmosphere and which is
   operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at a gases outlet; and a patient interface
   provided on the main body having a gases inlet which is fluidly connected to the gases
   outlet of the blower unit and which is configured to deliver the pressurised gases to the
   user's nose and/or mouth.
30         In some embodiments, the respiratory assistance apparatus may be configured to
   provide a bias flow and may comprise one or more gas washout vents in the vicinity of
   the patient interface through which a portion of exhaled gases may exit the respiratory
   assistance apparatus.    In other embodiments, the respiratory assistance apparatus may
   be configured to have zero bias flow.
                                                -15-

            In another aspect, also described is a respiratory assistance system comprising: a
   head-mounted respiratory assistance apparatus according to any of the above aspects;
   and a base station that is configured to receive and retain the respiratory assistance
   apparatus when not in use.
 5          Each aspect of the invention above may additionally have any one or more of the
   features mentioned in respect of the other aspects.
           The phrase "bias flow" as used in this specification and claims is intended to mean,
   unless the context suggests otherwise, the deliberate or controlled leak or flow of gases
   from the respiratory assistance apparatus to the surrounding atmosphere from one or
10 more gas flushing vents or gas washout vents provided on the respiratory assistance
   apparatus and which are fluidly connected with or provided at or along a portion of the air
   or gases flow path within the apparatus.
           The phrases "zero bias flow" or "zero bias" as used in this specification and claims
   is intended to mean, unless the context suggests otherwise, nil bias flow or in some
15 embodiments minimal bias flow of not greater than 5 litres per minute.
           The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means "consisting
   at least in part of". When interpreting each statement in this specification and claims that
   includes the term "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term
   may also be present.        Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be
20 interpreted in the same manner.
            It is intended that reference to a range of numbers disclosed herein (for example,
    1 to 10) also incorporates reference to all rational numbers within that range (for example,
    1, 1.1, 2, 3, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 6.5, 7, 8, 9 and 10) and also any range of rational numbers
   within that range (for example, 2 to 8, 1.5 to 5.5 and 3.1 to 4.7) and, therefore, all sub
25 ranges of all ranges expressly disclosed herein are hereby expressly disclosed. These are
   only examples of what is specifically intended and all possible combinations of numerical
   values between the lowest value and the highest value enumerated are to be considered
   to be expressly stated in this application in a similar manner.
            As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
30          As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of
   the noun.
             The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which
   the following gives examples only.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                                                  -16-

           Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described by way of example only
   and with reference to the drawings, in which:
           Figure 1 shows a schematic view of a known form of respiratory assistance
   apparatus having a modular configuration blower unit connected to a humidifier unit;
 5         Figure 2 shows a schematic view of another known form of respiratory assistance
   apparatus in which the blower unit and humidifier unit are integrated into a single main
   housing;
           Figure 3 shows a plan view of an example of a known blower unit;
           Figure 4 shows a side view of the blower unit of Figure 3;
10         Figure 5 shows a profile view of a known impeller;
           Figure 6 shows another profile view of the impeller of Figure 5;
           Figure 7 shows a perspective view of a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus
   having a head-mounted blower unit in accordance with an embodiment of the invention
   and shown mounted to a user's head but with the headgear not shown;
15         Figure 8 shows an upper perspective view of the front of the respiratory assistance
   apparatus of Figure 7 with the user omitted;
           Figure 9 shows a lower perspective view of the rear side of the respiratory
   assistance apparatus of Figure 7;
           Figure 10 shows a side elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
20 Figure 7;
           Figure 11 shows a front elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
   Figure 7;
           Figure 12 shows a rear elevation view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
   Figure 7;
25         Figure 13 shows a lower perspective view of the rear of the respiratory assistance
   apparatus of Figure 7 but with the frame omitted from view, and in particular showing
   mask seal, blower unit, and forehead bumper components;
           Figure 14 shows a rear perspective view of the frame of the respiratory assistance
   apparatus of Figure 7;
30         Figures 15 and 16 show front perspective and side elevation views respectively of
   the frame of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure 7;
           Figures 17 and 18 show front and rear perspective views respectively of the blower
   unit of the respiratory assistance apparatus of Figure 7;
           Figure 19 shows a front perspective view of the blower unit of Figure 17 with the
35 gases inlet filter removed so as to expose the motor assembly;
                                               -17-

           Figure 20 shows a front perspective view of the blower unit in Figure 19 with the
   motor assembly removed from the blower unit casing;
           Figure 21 shows a rear perspective view of the blower unit of Figure 17 with a
   portion of the rear side of the casing cutaway to expose the impeller;
 5         Figure 22 shows a cross-sectional view through the casing of the blower unit of
   Figure 17;
           Figures 23 and 24 show perspective and plan views respectively of an impeller of
   the blower unit of Figure 17 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
           Figures 25A and 25B show perspective and plan views respectively of an impeller
10 for the blower unit of Figure 17 in accordance with another embodiment of the invention;
           Figures 26A and 26B show plan and perspective views respectively of an impeller
   with reduced shroud material for the blower unit of Figure 17 in accordance with another
   embodiment of the invention;
           Figures 26C and 26D show plan and perspective views of an impeller with a web
15 structure for the blower unit of Figure 17 in accordance with another embodiment of the
   invention;
           Figure 27 shows an upper perspective view of the motor and impeller assembly of
   the blower unit of Figure 17 in accordance with a first embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 28 shows an upper perspective view of a stator isolator of the motor
20 assembly of Figure 27 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 29 shows an upper perspective view of the motor and impeller assembly of
   the blower unit of Figure 27 with the stator isolator component omitted from view;
           Figure 30 shows an upper perspective view of the motor and impeller assembly of
   Figure 29 but with the upper stator mounting part omitted from view;
25         Figure 31A shows a central cross-sectional view through the motor and impeller
   assembly of Figure 27;
           Figure 31B shows a side elevation view of the upper and lower bearing mounts,
   magnets, and impeller of the motor and impeller assembly of Figure 27;
           Figure 32A shows a perspective view of the motor and impeller assembly of the
30 blower unit of Figure 17 in accordance with a second embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 32B shows a stator lamination of the second embodiment motor;
           Figure 32C shows a pole face of the second embodiment motor;
           Figure 32D shows a bearing mount of the second embodiment motor;
           Figure 32E shows a cross-sectional view of the motor and impeller of the second
35 embodiment;
                                               -18-

           Figure 32F shows a motor mounting structure of the second embodiment motor;
           Figures 33A and 33B show a metal shaft and magnet rotor assembly forming part
   of a motor;
           Figure 33C shows the metal shaft of the assembly in Figures 33A, 33B;
 5         Figure 33D shows a plastic shaft and magnet rotor assembly forming part of
   another embodiment of the motor;
           Figures 33E and 33F show an injection moulding tool for manufacturing the plastic
   shaft and rotor assembly of Figure 33D;
           Figure 33G shows a flow diagram of an injection moulding process for the metal
10 shaft/insert rotor assembly;
           Figure 33H shows a flow diagram of an injection moulding process for the plastic
   shaft rotor assembly;
           Figure 34 shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
   Figure 7 worn by a user and mounted to the user's head by headgear in accordance with
15 an embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 35A shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
   Figure 7 worn by a user and mounted to the user's head by headgear in accordance with
   another embodiment of the invention in which the headgear has batteries integrated into
   the upper and/or lower head straps;
20         Figure 35B shows a perspective view of the respiratory assistance apparatus of
   Figure 7 worn by a user and mounted to the user's head by headgear in accordance with
   another embodiment of the invention having upper and lower head straps and battery
   module mounted to the top of the user's head;
           Figure 36 shows a perspective view of a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus
25 mounted to a user's head in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 37 shows a perspective view of a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus
   mounted to a user's head in accordance with another alternative embodiment of the
   invention;
           Figure 38 shows a front view of a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus
30 mounted to a user's head in accordance with another alternative embodiment of the
   invention;
           Figure 39 shows a perspective view of a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus
   mounted to the head of a user in accordance with another alternative embodiment of the
   invention;
35         Figure 40 shows a pressure response graph of a conventional blower unit;
                                              -19-

           Figure 41 shows a pressure response graph of a blower unit in accordance with an
   embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 42 shows a graph of average sound pressure levels of a conventional blower
   unit;
 5         Figure 43 shows a graph of average sound pressure levels of a blower unit in
   accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 44 shows a schematic view of a first embodiment base station in
   communication with a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus, and which drives a
   separate power supply mat for loose-coupled wireless power transfer to the respiratory
10 assistance apparatus;
           Figure 45 shows a schematic view of a second embodiment base station providing
   direct data communication and wireless power transfer to a wearable respiratory
   assistance apparatus, and which shows by way of example two different embodiments of
   the wearable respiratory assistance apparatus, one with an onboard battery and one
15 without;
           Figure 46 shows a schematic view of a third embodiment base station in the form
   of a data hub in data communication with a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus,
   and additionally a separate power supply cable for powering and/or charging, and in
   particular showing various different powering and/or charging configurations for a
20 wearable respiratory assistance apparatus having an onboard battery, a battery-less
   wearable respiratory assistance apparatus, or the charging of a removable battery from
   such an apparatus;
           Figure 47 shows a schematic view of a fourth embodiment base station in data
   communication with a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus, and which includes both
25 a battery pack charging dock and a power supply cable for powering and/or charging, and
   in particular showing the powering and/or charging configurations for a wearable
   respiratory assistance apparatus having an onboard battery and a battery-less wearable
   respiratory assistance apparatus;
           Figure 48 shows a schematic view of a fifth embodiment base station in data
30 communication with a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus, and which includes both
   an integrated power charging mat for wireless charging of the respiratory assistance
   apparatus and a power supply cable for powering and/or charging, and in particular
   showing the powering and/or charging configurations for a wearable respiratory assistance
   apparatus having an onboard battery and a battery-less wearable respiratory assistance
35 apparatus;
                                             -20-

           Figure 49 shows a schematic view of a sixth embodiment base station in data
   communication with a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus, and which includes
   power supply cable for powering and/or charging, and in particular showing various
   different powering and/or charging configurations for a wearable respiratory assistance
 5 apparatus having an onboard battery, a battery-less wearable respiratory assistance
   apparatus, or the charging of a removable battery from such an apparatus; and
           Figure 50 shows a schematic view of a seventh embodiment base station in
   communication with a wearable respiratory assistance apparatus and directly via a
   separate power supply mat for loose-coupled wireless power transfer to the respiratory
10 system apparatus.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
   Overview
           The invention relates to a respiratory assistance apparatus (respiratory device)
   that is capable of supplying a flow or stream of respiratory gases to a user or patient for
15 respiratory therapies.   An embodiment of the respiratory device that is configured as a
   CPAP respiratory device will be described by way of example, although it will be
   appreciated that the respiratory device may be adapted or configured for other PAP
   therapies, including but not limited to Bi-PAP therapy, or any other suitable respiratory
   therapy that employs the delivery of a flow of gases to a user.
20 Wearable
           Referring to Figures 7-12, in this embodiment the respiratory device 20 is portable
   and fully wearable.    In particular, the respiratory device 20 is in the form of a head
   mounted CPAP respiratory device.       The respiratory device 20 is operable to deliver or
   supply a flow of respiratory gases (for example atmospheric air) at a controllable
25 continuous pressure as is known to those skilled in the art of CPAP devices and therapies.
   The respiratory device can be configured to deliver gases at any desired flow rate and/or
   pressures required by the patient, whether customized to a single or multiple discrete flow
   rates and/or pressures or whether configured to operate at a range of flow rates and/or
   pressures. By way of example only, the respiratory device may be operable to deliver
30 gases at a flow rate or rates in the range of 0-120 litres per minute, and can create a
   pressure or pressures in the range of 0-25cmH20, or may be customized to operate within
   sub-ranges of these ranges depending on patient requirements. The respiratory device
   20 is portable in that the main components are all provided in a unit or assembly that is
   head-mountable or otherwise wearable.       As will be explained in further detail later, the
35 respiratory device's power supply may also be head-mounted or alternatively hardwired
                                                -21-

   to the main unit and carried or otherwise worn by the user, e.g. in a pocket or belt
   mounted for example. The respiratory device 20 comprises a base or main body 22 to
   which a blower unit 24 and patient interface or mask 26 are integrated, fixed or releasably
   mounted. The respiratory device 20 has a user-facing (or rear) side indicated by arrow A
 5 in Figure 10 and an outward-facing (or front) side indicated by arrow B.
           The blower unit 24 comprises a rotatable impeller that is configured to draw or
   suck in surrounding atmospheric gases or air through a blower gases inlet 28 and then
   pressurise those gases into a supply or stream of pressurised gases. As will be appreciated
   by those skilled in CPAP devices and therapy, the blower unit 24 comprises a controllable
10 variable speed fan unit that is controllable by one or more control signals to generate the
   desired level of flow and/or pressure of gases at the mask 26.
           The blower unit 24 is fluidly connected or in fluid communication via an airway or
   gases passage with the mask 26 such that pressurised gases generated by the blower unit
   24 can flow into the internal cavity 30 (see Figure 9) of the mask 26 for breathing or
15 respiration by the user via their nose and/or mouth, depending on the type of mask
   employed. In this embodiment, a nasal mask 26 is provided that is configured to sealingly
   engage with the user's face around their nose, but alternatively other patient interfaces
   or masks could be used, including but not limited to full face masks covering the user's
   nose and mouth, oral masks for the user's mouth, nasal cannula or prongs, or any other
20 suitable mask or patient interface for respiratory gases.
           Headgear (not shown in Figures 7-12) is provided on the respiratory device 20 for
   securing the device to the head of a user. Various headgear assembly configurations can
   be employed to secure the respiratory device to the user's head and some examples of
   headgear configurations will be described by way of example later.             Some example
25 headgear configurations comprise an upper headstrap connected or coupled to an upper
   part of the respiratory device in the vicinity of the blower unit 24 and which extends
   around an upper part of the user's head above their ears and a lower headstrap that is
   coupled to or connected to a lower part of the respiratory device in the vicinity of the mask
   26 and which extends around a lower part of the user's head, typically at or below the ear
30 level.
   Controller
           The respiratory device 20 has an onboard electronic controller (such as a
   microcontroller, microprocessor or similar) or control system that is mounted to or within
   the blower unit 24, main body 22 or another part of the respiratory device. As well as
35 other functionality, the electronic controller is primarily configured to control the pressure
                                                 -22 -

   of respiratory gases delivered to the user by controlling the motor speed within the blower
   unit 24 as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art of CPAP respiratory devices. For
   example, the blower unit in use is set to a user-specified pressure level and/or the
   pressure level can be automatically controlled. The flow rate for the preferred embodiment
 5 will vary during use, depending on the users breathing. The power to blower unit can be
   altered, to change the speed at which the impeller is rotating, and therefore the pressure.
           The electronic controller may be controlled by an onboard user interface or control
   panel comprising one or more switches, buttons, dials, touch screen control panels
   provided on the respiratory device.    Additionally or alternatively, the onboard controller
10 may be operable or controlled remotely by an external control device (e.g. a remote
   control, Personal Computer, portable communication device such as smart phone running
   a smart phone application, or any other programmable device, portable or otherwise) that
   communicates with the onboard controller via a wireless communication medium, such as
   RF communication,      Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, infrared, or any other wireless communication
15 standard or technique.
           In some embodiments, the controller may be configured to employ sensorless
   vector control (also known as field-oriented control) of the motor in the blower unit.
           The control system may comprise one or more sensors within the respiratory device
   that are configured to sense various operational parameters and generate representative
20 sensor signals for the controller.    For example, in some embodiments the respiratory
   system may comprise a flow rate sensor and/or a pressure sensor in the air flow path.
   The sensed signals are processed by the controller and used to control the motor in the
   blower unit to deliver the desired pressure and/or flow to the user as is known to those
   skilled in the art of CPAP respiratory devices.
25         The control system may also include additional sensors such as EEG, humidity,
   temperature, or accelerometers, to provide additional features or benefits as required.
           The sensors may be hardwired or wireless, or a combination of these. In some
   embodiments, the sensors may be hardwired to the onboard power supply module or
   alternatively powered wirelessly by a wireless power transfer system in connectivity range.
30 In some embodiments, the sensors are hardwired to the onboard controller such that the
   controller receives the sensor signals and/or sensor data generated.          Additionally or
   alternatively, the sensors may be configured to transmit their sensor signals or sensor
   data wirelessly to the onboard controller or directly to an external system or device in
   connectivity range.
35 Power supply
                                                -23-

           The respiratory device 20 is preferably powered by an onboard power supply
   package or module that is head-mounted. The power supply module may be in the form
   of an energy storage device or devices such as, but not limited to, a battery package
   comprising one or more batteries, which are typically but not necessarily rechargeable, a
 5 fuel cell, capacitor, or any other suitable energy storage device. The power supply and
   associated power circuitry may be mounted to or within the respiratory device, such as to
   or within the blower unit 24 or main body 22, or may be mounted to or integrated with
   the headgear or any other part of the respiratory device. Additionally or alternatively, the
   power supply module may be non-head mounted but otherwise portable and wearable and
10 which can be connected to the respiratory device by a power cable or other hardwiring.
   In such embodiments, the power supply module may be carried or worn e.g. carried in a
   pocket of the user's clothing or belt-mounted for example, if the user is moving.
   Otherwise, the power supply module may be placed down in a convenient location near
   the user if desired. Typically, the power supply module is a DC power supply. Additionally
15 or alternatively, the respiratory device may also be configured for optional connection to
   an AC power adaptor that connects to an AC mains power supply and converts it to a DC
   power supply for the respiratory device.      The power supplied by the AC power adaptor
   may also be configured to re-charge any battery power supply modules onboard the
   respiratory device.
20         If the power supply module is a rechargeable energy storage device, such as a
   rechargeable battery pack or comprises rechargeable batteries, it may be recharged by
   either a wired or a wireless charging system, including but not limited to inductive power
   transfer, some examples of which will be explained later with reference to Figures 44-50.
                       It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the respiratory device
25 may be battery-less (i.e. not have an onboard power supply module) and may be powered
   directly be an AC power adaptor above or alternatively powered via a wireless power
   transfer system, as will be discussed later.
   Passive humidification
           In this embodiment, the respiratory device 20 is configured to provide passive
30 humidification and warming or heating of the respiratory gases using accumulated
   moisture or humidity within the mask cavity and remaining volume of the air flow passage
   or path within the respiratory device that is created by the user's exhaled breath.     This
   passive humidification may also heat the respiratory gases. This passive humidification
   method eliminates the requirement for active humidification, which is typically carried out
35 by a conventional humidification unit comprising a humidification chamber after the blower
                                                 -24-

   unit as is known in conventional CPAP therapy respiratory devices. In some embodiments,
   one or more heat and moisture exchangers (HMEs) may also be provided in the air flow
   path to further enhance the passive humidification recycling effect.
           In some embodiments, mask condensation control/reduction methods may be
 5 employed. This includes, but is not limited to, permeable mask materials, drip collection
   systems, and heating of the mask surface.
   Zero bias flow
           In this embodiment, the respiratory device 20 does not employ a bias flow to assist
   in expelling exhaled gases from the user as is known in conventional CPAP therapy
10 respiratory devices as described with reference to Figures 1 and 2 in which the respiratory
   gases are delivered to the patient along a flexible gases conduit 3 to a patient interface 5,
   such as a nasal mask.     In this embodiment, the respiratory device has a zero bias flow
   configuration. The respiratory device 20 is configured with a substantially sealed interior
   air flow passage or path, defined between the blower inlet 28 and the outlet region of the
15 mask 26, that is of a sufficiently small volume to control or reduce C02 rebreathing to an
   acceptable or desired level without requiring a bias flow to assist in flushing exhaled gases
   like in the conventional CPAP respiratory devices.      The total interior air flow passage
   volume or gas path volume within the respiratory device 20 is defined generally by the
   total cumulative volume of the air passage or gas path through the respiratory assistance
20 apparatus between the atmosphere and the user's mouth, ie from the gases inlet of the
   blower unit 24 to the gases outlet or outlet region of the patient interface or mask 26 at
   the user's nose and/or mouth (depending on the type of patient interface), and includes
   the internal volume of the blower unit 24, any air passage or connection port between the
   outlet of the blower unit 24 and inlet of the mask 26 in the main body 22, and the interior
25 volume or cavity 30 of the mask 26.       The air flow passage volume is configured to be
   within predetermined ranges so as to control C02 rebreathing to a desired level as the
   controlled volume enables a portion of exhaled gases to vent back through the respiratory
   device and exiting the respiratory device from the blower unit gases inlet 28 and out into
   the atmosphere.      In this embodiment, the total interior air flow passage volume is
30 preferably less than 200mL.
           In other embodiments, the respiratory device may be configured to optionally
   provide a 'reduced' or small amount of bias flow, typically at a reduced level relative to
   that provided in conventional CPAP therapy respiratory devices of Figures 1 and 2, via one
   or more gases washout vents, typically in the patient interface or mask or elsewhere in
35 the air flow path. The level of bias flow may be controllable in some embodiments.
                                                -25-

   Heating
           In some embodiments, additional heating of the respiratory gases may be provided
   in the blower unit 24 where heat dissipated from the motor and control circuitry acts to
   heat the incoming respiratory gases above the ambient temperature by forced convection
 5 heat transfer.
   Base station
           In this embodiment, the respiratory device is also optionally provided with a
   separate base station configured to supply power to the respiratory device for operation
   and/or charging of any onboard energy storage devices, such as battery packs or similar.
10 The base station may additionally be configured to provide data communication for
   compliance data transfer and/or may be configured as a docking station or mounting stand
   upon which the respiratory device may be docked or mounted or otherwise stored when
   not in use. The base station may be a unit or assembly that is configured to either rest
   on a flat surface, such as a table, or alternatively may be wall-mounted or fixed to any
15 other structure in a convenient location. The base station may be provided with or control
   an integrated or separate power module or system that is configured to connect to the
   respiratory device and power it during operation and/or recharge any onboard power
   supply, either when it is docked or otherwise in connectivity range. The power system
   may be via a hardwired cable connection to the respiratory device or a wireless energy
20 transfer system (such as but not limited to electromagnetic induction power transfer,
   electromagnetic radiation power transfer, or the like). The base station may additionally
   or alternatively provide other optional features and functionality such as communication
   modules for compliance data transfer, memory stick interface, calibration, drying,
   cleaning, clock radio, music player.     By way of example only, various base station
25 embodiments are described later with reference to Figures 44-50.
   Model Variations
           In some embodiments, some or all of the elements or components of the
   respiratory assistance apparatus may be disposable or replaceable, including but not
   limited to the mask or mask assembly, blower unit, and main body, themselves or
30 components thereof.
           In some embodiments, either or both of the blower unit and patient interface may
   be modular components that are releasably or removably mounted or attached to the
   main   body such that different patient interfaces or blower units of different type,
   specification, size or any other characteristic may be connected to the main body to vary
                                                -26-

   or customize the operation, capability, specification, characteristics, and/or functionality
   of the respiratory device to suit a particular application or end user requirements.
            In some embodiments, the respiratory assistance apparatus may be provided or
   configured as a snoring treatment device by operating in a limited pressure range, for
 5 example 1-4cmH20.          In such embodiments, the size of the respiratory assistance
   apparatus would be smaller than a device configured for PAP therapy.
            In some embodiments, the respiratory assistance apparatus may be configured to
   operate in a diagnostic mode, for use either in the home or a sleep clinic.          In such
   embodiments, the respiratory assistance apparatus may have one or more additional
10 sensors (EEG, accelerometer, SpO2 etc).
            In some embodiments, the respiratory assistance apparatus may be switchable to
   a "zero pressure" or "low pressure" mode, on detection of the patient being awake, or by
   patient manual intervention, e.g. by pressing a button on the device, or by detection of
   head or body movements that indicate an awake state.
15          In some embodiments, multiple different models of the respiratory assistance
   apparatus may be provided, each configured to operate at a specific limited pressure
   range, to minimise weight and size of the apparatus for each pressure range, and each
   having a blower unit and power supply that is optimised for the model's target pressure
   range. For example, in one embodiment three separate models may be provided, covering
20 pressure ranges of 4-10, 8-14, and 12-20cmH20 respectively.
   Main body and mask assembly
            Referring to Figures 7-16, the main body 22 and mask 26 of the respiratory device
   20 will be described in further detail. Figures 14-16 show the main body 22 in isolation.
   In this embodiment, the upper or top part or portion of the main body 22 comprises a
25 forehead support member 32 that is configured to extend generally horizontally or laterally
   relative to the remainder of the main body. The forehead support 32 is configured to be
   located in the vicinity of the user's forehead when worn by a user. The lower or bottom
   part or portion of the main body 22 comprises a mask body 34 which forms part of the
   mask 26 or mask assembly of the respiratory device 20.         The forehead support 32 and
30 mask body 34 are connected together by a centrally and vertically extending vertical
   support member or connecting member 36.           In this embodiment, the forehead support
   32, vertical support 36, and mask body 34 are preferably formed from a rigid plastics
   material such as, but not limited to, polycarbonate, nylon, acetyl or other similar rigid
   plastic.   The components 32, 34, 36 are preferably integrally formed as a single piece
35 although it will be appreciated that the components may be formed separately and
                                                -27-

   connected, fixed or otherwise releasably coupled together to form the main body 22 in
   alternative embodiments.       The horizontal forehead support member 32 and vertical
   support member 36 together form a T-shape, and can be collectively referred to as a "T
   piece".
 5         In this embodiment, the forehead support 32 is substantially elongate in the
   horizontal direction and extends between a first end 38a and second end 38b.           At or
   toward each end is provided a connection aperture 40 to which respective ends of a
   headstrap may be releasably or fixedly connected or coupled. The forehead support 32 is
   also provided with one or more mounting apertures 42 to which one or more pads or
10 cushions 44 may be releasably or fixedly mounted on the user-facing side of the main
   body 22.    In this embodiment, a pair of mounting apertures 42 each located toward a
   respective side of the forehead support 32 relative to the centre are provided for receiving
   and retaining respective cushion members 44 (see Figure 13).        In this embodiment, the
   mounting apertures 42 are configured to releasably receive and retain complementary
15 mounting formations 44a provided on the rear-side of the cushion members 44. In use,
   the forehead support 32 locates against the user's forehead and provides stability to the
   mask 26 when fitted.
           In this embodiment, the mask body 34 of the main body 22 forms an internal cavity
   30 (see Figure 14) into which respiratory gases are supplied from the connected blower
20 unit 24, which is in fluid communication with the mask body 34 via an air passage or
   passages of the main body 22.       Referring to Figures 15 and 16, the mask body 34 is
   provided with a gases inlet 50 at or toward the top of the front side of the mask body and
   which in this embodiment is centrally located or aligned with vertical support 36 of the
   main body 22.     A gases flow path or passageway extends from the mask body inlet 50
25 and terminates or opens into the internal cavity 30 of the mask body 34.
           In this embodiment, a mask 26 or mask seal assembly is configured to be
   releasably mounted to the mask body 34.         Referring to Figure 13, the mask 26 in this
   embodiment is a nasal mask and is configured to sealingly engage with the user's face
   around their nose and has a front user-engaging side 26a and a rear side 26b for engaging
30 with the mask body 34.       The mask seal assembly 26 may comprise a flexible seal or
   cushion on the front side 26a that is shaped to substantially fit or conform to the contours
   of the user's face for sealing engagement and a plastic clip may be provided on the rear
   side 26b for releasably mounting or engaging with a complementary receiving and
   retaining formation provided on the mask body 34. For example, the plastic or rigid clip
35 of the mask seal assembly 26 may be a formation that extends around the peripheral edge
                                                -28-

   of the mask seal assembly 26 on its rear side 26b and which engages or releasably couples
   to a complementary shaped recess or formation extending about the peripheral edge 34a
   (see Figure 14) of the mask body 34. The flexible seal on the front side 26a of the mask
   seal assembly 26 may for example be formed from a soft plastics material, such as
 5 silicone. The formation and configuration of a mask assembly formed by the mask body
   34 and mask seal assembly 26 will be appreciated by those skilled in the art of patient
   interfaces and by way of example may be of the type described in US 2010/0006101, the
   contents of which is incorporated by reference. While the mask 26 is preferably releasably
   mounted to the mask body 34 such that it can be removed, replaced or cleaned if required,
10 in alternative embodiments it will be appreciated that the mask may be integrally formed
   with of fixed to the mask body 34.
            In this embodiment, the front side of the mask body 34 is provided with one or
   more clips 52 (see Figures 15 and 16) or retaining formations that are configured to
   slidably or receive and retain a part of the headgear assembly. For example, the headgear
15 assembly may have a lower strap that extends around the user's head below or at ear
   level and which is connected to the lower part of the respiratory device by the clips 52.
   In one embodiment, the lower head strap may comprise an elongate glider member that
   may slide or glide within the one or more clips 52 such that the mask assembly may move
   laterally with respect to the headgear, as will be explained in further detail later.
20          In this embodiment, the blower unit 24 is mounted to the main body 22 such that
   it is located in the user's forehead region when in use. For example, the blower unit 24 is
   provided on or mounted to an upper part or portion of the main body, such as on or to
   the T-piece. In this embodiment, the blower unit 24 is mounted to the forehead support
   32 or in the forehead support region of the T-piece, and is typically centrally located
25 relative to the sides of the main body.
            In this embodiment, the blower unit 24 is releasably mounted to the main body
   22.     The forehead support member 32 is provided with a central mounting aperture 54
   (see Figure 15) which is configured to receive and retain a complementary mounting
   protrusion or formation 56 that is provided on the rear side of the blower unit 24 (see
30 Figure 13).     In this embodiment, the mounting aperture 54 has a keyhole-type shape
   formed by an upper circular aperture that extends or overlaps into a lower smaller
   aperture. In use, the retaining formation 56 of the blower unit is in the form of a cylindrical
   protrusion that terminates with a circular stop member of larger diameter such that the
   formation 56 may be inserted through the large aperture of the keyhole aperture 54 and
35 then slid down into secure retaining engagement with smaller aperture of the keyhole
                                                 -29-

   mounting aperture 54.       It will be appreciated that this is only one type of releasable
   mounting configuration for attaching the blower unit 24 to the main body 22 of the
   respiratory device 20.     Various other alternative releasable mounting arrangements or
   configurations may alternatively be used such as, but not limited to, magnetic coupling,
 5 clips or clipping systems, hook and loop fastening configurations or the like. Further, in
   alternative embodiments the casing or housing of the blower unit may be integrally formed
   with the main body 22.
           The bottom or underside of the blower unit 24 is provided with a gases outlet (see
   Figure 13) through which the pressurised gases stream generated by the rotating fan or
10 impeller of the blower unit exits the blower unit.    In this embodiment, the gases outlet
   comprises a tubular connector 57 that terminates with an outlet aperture 58 or opening.
   The connector 57 is configured to sealingly engage into or with the gases inlet 50 of the
   mask body 34 when the blower unit is securely mounted to the main body. This allows
   respiratory gases to flow from the blower unit 24 through into the air flow passage of the
15 main body 22 and then into the internal cavity 30 of the mask body 34.
   Blower unit casino
           Embodiments of the blower unit 24 of the respiratory device 20 will now be
   described in further detail with reference to Figures 17-33H.      In this embodiment, the
   blower unit 24 comprises a substantially circular casing or housing 60 when viewed in plan
20 view. The casing 60 has a front side or surface generally indicated by arrow C and a rear
   side or surface generally indicated by arrow D, and a peripheral wall 72 extends between
   the sides. The casing 60 defines a substantially hollow interior with one or more regions
   for receiving and retaining the blower componentry, such as a motor and impeller.
           The front side or surface of the casing comprises one or more apertures or openings
25 64 that form a gases inlet. In this embodiment, the gases inlet 64 is a circular hole or
   aperture located in approximately the centre of the front side or surface of the casing 60
   and passes from the outside of the casing to the inside.       In use, the front face of the
   blower unit 24 faces away from the user and atmospheric air is drawn into the casing of
   blower unit via the gases inlet 64 where it is then pressurised by the rotating impeller to
30 generate a pressurised gases stream at the gases outlet of the blower unit.        While the
   predominant direction of flow of the respiratory gases is from the gases inlet 64 of the
   blower unit to the gases outlet 58 of the blower unit and into the mask body 22 for
   receiving by the user via the mask 26, a reverse flow also exists in the opposite direction
   during the user's respiratory cycle during expiration in which exhaled gases may flow back
35 through the mask 26 and exit the respiratory device from the gases inlet 64 of the blower
                                                 -30-

   unit back into the atmosphere.       Therefore, the gases inlets/outlets referred to are bi
   directional in that they do not restrict flow in any particular direction. In this embodiment,
   the gases inlet 64 comprises a filter 66, which may be a foam material that has a dual
   purpose of filtering incoming air, and acting as a heat and moisture exchanger (HME).        In
 5 alternative embodiments, the gases inlet need not necessarily comprise a filter. The rear
   side or surface of the casing which in use faces the user comprises a mounting protrusion
   or formation 56 (see Figure 18) as previously discussed for mounting the blower unit to
   the main body 22.
            The blower unit casing 60 houses a motor that is configured to rotate or drive an
10 impeller, also mounted in the casing.       In this embodiment, the blower unit comprises a
   lightweight/low inertia impeller. The lightweight nature of the impeller provides the low
   inertia.   In use, the blower unit 24 may be controlled or set to deliver respiratory gases
   at a user-specified flow rate and/or pressure level.       The flow rate during use may vary
   depending on the user's breathing. The power delivered to the motor of the blower unit
15 can be varied by control signals from the controller to change the speed at which the
   impeller is rotating and therefore the flow rate and/or pressure of the respiratory gases
   at the mask 26.
            Referring to Figure 22, the overall internal construction of the casing 60 can be
   seen more clearly with the motor and impeller omitted from view. As shown, the interior
20 of the casing is divided or portioned into one or more fluidly connected regions.       In this
   embodiment, the interior of the casing 60 is divided or separated into a first or upper
   interior region 82 adjacent the front side and a second or lower interior region 92 adjacent
   the rear side.    In this embodiment, the upper 82 and lower 92 regions are formed or
   created by a partitioning layer or divider 84.       In this embodiment, the divider 84 is a
25 horizontally oriented circular plate or member that is parallel to the front and rear sides
   of the casing and which extends across the interior region between the inner surface of
   the peripheral wall 72 at a position intermediate or between the front and rear sides of
   the casing.
            The motor assembly 80 is mounted in the upper region 82 of the casing 60 which
30 is defined between the front side of the casing, comprising the gases inlet 64 and filter
   66, and the divider 84 as shown in Figure 19.         Figure 20 shows the casing 60 with the
   motor 80 removed and exposing the receiving cavity of the upper region into which the
   motor is mounted.      As shown, the divider 84 comprises a central aperture 86 through
   which a rotatable drive shaft of the motor can extend through to couple to the impeller 90
35 in the lower region 92 below. This aperture 86 is also large enough to allow gases to flow
                                                  -31-

   or be drawn through the aperture between the upper region 82 and lower region 92. For
   example, in operation atmospheric gases are drawn into the upper region 82 where the
   motor is located via the gases inlet 64 and filter 66 and then flows through the divider
   aperture 86 into the lower region 92 where the impeller 90 is located.             It will be
 5 appreciated that one or more additional apertures may be provided in the divider 84 to
   increase the flow of air from the upper region 82 into the lower region 92.
           In an alternative embodiment, the aperture in the divider 84 through which gases
   flow through between the upper region and lower region may be an opening located at or
   close to the outer edge of the divider. For example, the opening may be a cut-away in
10 the partition layer 84 or some other configuration/shape of the casing such that the
   combination/arrangement       of the    partition   layer 84 and   the casing    creates    an
   aperture/opening between the two. The cut-away could form a circumferential aperture
   between the casing and partition 84, for example. The curvature/centre of radius of the
   circumferential aperture is preferably offset from the centre of radius of the partition layer
15 84 or otherwise has a curvature that differs from that of the circumference of the partition
   84 resulting in an eccentric or otherwise offset circumferential aperture around the
   circumference of the partition.      This produces an aperture with a crescent ("smile")
   opening that spans a leading edge to a trailing edge. However, the aperture may be of
   any shape with a gradual opening and closing relative to the plane of impeller rotation.
20 The aperture allows for gradual supply of pressure and flow from the high static pressure
   source at the top of the blower. The angle of the aperture opening and closing is tuned
   to allow for reverse flow to return through the system in a stable fashion.            It also
   contributes to the blade pass noise reduction by not having a sharp break in geometry.
           The impeller 90 is mounted in the lower region 92 of the casing 60 which is defined
25 between the rear side of the casing and the divider 84 as shown in Figure 21, which shows
   a cut-away view of the rear side of the casing to expose the impeller 90.
           In this embodiment, the gases outlet of the blower unit 24 extends outwardly from
   the peripheral wall 72 of the casing. Referring to Figures 17, 18 and 22, the gases outlet
   comprises a gases outlet passage 70 that is connected to an interior region of the casing
30 60 and which extends outwardly from the peripheral side wall 72 of the casing at or toward
   the bottom of the blower unit.     The gases outlet passage 70 is provided with a tubular
   connector 57 at its outer end, and the connector 57 terminates with an outlet aperture 58
   through which a pressurised gases stream may flow. The connector 57 in this embodiment
   is circular in cross-section and is configured to connect or couple to the gases inlet 50 of
35 the main body 22 so as to fluidly connect the blower unit to the main body 22 and mask
                                                  -32-

   26 for the flow of gases. In this embodiment, the gases outlet passage 70 has a generally
   circular cross-section and extends radially outward from the centre of the casing.
   However, the outlet passage 70 could also be arranged to extend outwardly at any
   alternative suitable angle relative to the circular casing, for example aligned substantially
 5 tangentially to the side wall of the casing, or at any suitable angle between tangential and
   radial. It will be appreciated that the cross-sectional shape of the outlet passage 70 and
   connector 57 need not necessarily be circular, but could be any other desired or suitable
   shape.    The outlet passage 70 causes the gases forced outwards by the impeller 90 to
   coalesce as a gases stream, and dictates the direction in which the gases stream flows
10 from the blower unit.
           Reverting to Figure 22, the casing 60 is also provided with an interior formation 93
   that forms or provides an air passage 94 or pathway from the lower region 92 to a volute
   96 or transition region. The volute 96 collects the gases forced outwardly from the rotating
   impeller 90 before emission from the blower unit via the outlet passage 70, which is fluidly
15 connected to the volute. In operation, gases circulating in the volute 96 are diverged into
   the outlet passage 70 which forms a pressurised gases stream. In this embodiment, the
   volute 96 is a channel or passage extending circumferentially within the casing around the
   outside of the upper region 82 of the casing.       In this embodiment, the air passage 94
   extends from the lower region up into the volute 96 and is also located circumferentially
20 about the periphery of the interior of the casing 60.
           It will be appreciated that the gases pathway from the gases inlet 64 of the casing
   60 to the lower region 92 where the impeller 90 is situated may be provided in other ways
   and need not necessarily flow through the upper region 82 where the motor is located.
   For example, in an alternative embodiment the gases inlet may be provided on the rear
25 side of the casing adjacent the impeller in the lower region 92.
   Operation
           During operation of the blower unit 24, rotation of the impeller 90 by the motor 80
   draws gases through the gases inlet 64 and into the upper region 82 of the casing and
   through the motor assembly 80 to the central aperture 86 of the divider 84. The air drawn
30 through the motor assembly 80 can also act to cool the motor. The shroudless impeller
   enables air to be drawn through the motor in this manner to thus providing cooling. The
   gases flow through the aperture 86 into the lower region 92 and through the blades of the
   impeller toward the peripheral side wall 72 of the casing in the lower region. The impeller
   blades impart strong rotational forces to the gases circulating in the lower region 92 of
35 the blower casing to thereby create high circulating gas speeds. Gases in the lower region
                                                 -33-

   92 will naturally flow through the air passage 94 into the volute 96 due to pressure
   differential between regions. When the gases in the lower region 92, having a high velocity
   and low pressure, enter the volute 96, the gas velocity drops and the pressure increases.
   Typically, the volute 96 has a greater volume than the lower region 92 to help facilitate
 5 this gases pressure increase.
           By dividing the blower internal space into separate regions a number of advantages
   can be realised. In a conventional blower, high velocity gases leaving the impeller are
   incident to an edge, or tongue, that defines a physical boundary where gases are split
   from the volute to enter the outlet passage. High velocity gas flow incident at the tongue
10 is turbulent and inefficient to blower performance. The turbulence caused by the tongue
   also introduces a source of noise. In contrast, dividing the casing of the blower unit into
   separate but connected gases regions reduces the impact caused by the tongue. The lower
   region 92 allows the gases to circulate at a high speed. The gases path or passage 94
   provides a fluid path to the volute 96 that is free from aerodynamically turbulent edges.
15 When circulating gases have entered the volute region 96, the enlarged volume of the
   volute encourages the gases to slow and increase in pressure. The reduced gases velocity
   reduces the impact of turbulence normally caused by the tongue to a low or negligible
   level. The blower unit is therefore able to operate across a wide pressure and flow range
   with substantially reduced noise output when compared to other blowers. A wider passage
20 94 increases the flow rate of the volute relative to the lower region. Therefore, the size of
   the passage 94 is selected according to the desired flow rate and pressure range of the
   blower unit.
   Impeller
           A first embodiment of the impeller 90 is shown in Figures 23 and 24. The impeller
25 90 has a plurality of blades 98 extending outward from a central hub 100. The impeller
   is a centrifugal impeller. The hub 100 defines the axis about which the impeller rotates.
   Preferably the hub 100 has an aperture 102 or recess to allow engagement with a rotatable
   drive shaft of the motor 80 which facilitates impeller rotation. However, other engagement
   mechanisms, such as over moulding of the hub with a shaft, could be used. When the
30 impeller is rotated, air enters the impeller blades in the region proximate the hub 100,
   travels radially outward and exits the blades proximate the blade tips.      The impeller is
   preferably made in one piece ("one piece construction"), as opposed to moulded in
   multiple parts and joined.    This is possible when there is no shroud - or at most one
   shroud. This reduces misalignment of components that might lead to imbalance or other
                                                -34-

   disadvantages.      In the preferred embodiment there is no shroud (in contrast with for
   example the shroud 12 shown in Figures 5 and 6).
           The blades 98 preferably provide a substantially flat surface, from the hub 100 to
   the blade tip, and incident the direction of rotation indicated by arrow R to thereby
 5 centrifuge gases. In this embodiment, the blades 98 are arcuate or curved from the hub
   100 to the blade tips and the curve is preferably backward swept in the opposite direction
   of impeller rotation indicated by arrow R. The impeller is a backward facing impeller in
   that each blade 98 extends from the hub 100 in a direction backward of its associated
   radii extending from the hub, relative to the direction of the impeller rotation R.        For
10 example, blade 99 is shown extending backwardly relative to its associated radii X in
   Figure 24.
           A second embodiment of the impeller 90a is shown in Figures 25A and 25B.          The
   impeller 90a construction is similar to that of impeller 90, except the blade profile 98a is
   different. In this second embodiment, the blades 98a have a profile that comprises blade
15 tips 104 that partially curve in the direction of the impeller rotation R. That is, the blade
   tips 104 are forward swept. Forward swept blade tips help to impart stronger rotational
   forces on the gases flowing through the impeller than straight or backswept blades. The
   forward swept blade tips help to produce a high pressure annulus beyond the tip of each
   blade.   For example, the impeller generates a high pressure annulus between the blade
20 tips and inner face of the peripheral side wall of the casing. The inner portion 106 of the
   impeller blades 98a between the hub 100 and blade tip 104 may be somewhat backswept.
   A backswept blade allows for some recirculation of gases on the blade surface itself. The
   backswept inner blade portion 106 may be beneficial to increase pressure generation and
   allow for stable low and reverse gases flow.          In this embodiment, the impeller is a
25 backward facing impeller in that each blade 98a extends from the hub 100 in a direction
   backward of its associated radii extending from the hub, relative to the direction of
   impeller rotation R. For example, blade 99a is shown extending backward of its associated
   radii Y in Figure 25B.
           It will be appreciated that the impeller of the blower unit may be implemented with
30 any suitable blade profiles, whether forward, backward or radial blades, or any other
   suitable profile.
           In either embodiment, the impeller 90, 90a is constructed to be lightweight.
   Preferably, this is by making the impeller shroudless, or at least partially shroudless,
   thereby removing weight. To achieve a lightweight impeller, as shown in Figures 23-25B,
35 each of the blades of the impeller are open between the blades (that is, the upper and
                                                 -35-

   lower "faces" or "planes" of the impeller are open to the internal surfaces of the casing 60
   of the blower unit 24) thereby defining a shroudless centrifugal impeller. By omitting a
   shroud on both the upper and/or lower faces of the impeller blades, the weight of the
   impeller can be substantially reduced. The weight of the impeller can also be reduced in
 5 other ways, in addition to or alternatively to omitting the shroud.           For example, a
   lightweight material can be used. Also, thin blades with minimal material and large gaps
   between blades could be implemented to reduce weight.
           Alternatively, a shroud 101 with some of the material removed, such as shown in
   the third embodiment impeller 90b of Figures 26A and 26B could be used.           A scalloped
10 shaped 103 shroud is provided whereby some of the material between blades 98a is
   removed. Any suitable amount of material could be removed. A shroud channels air from
   the impellers. Where significant material is removed, the resulting structure may in fact
   no longer carry out this function of a shroud but rather just provide support for impeller
   blades 98a.    In this case, the impeller 90b may still be considered shroudless, despite
15 having some structure between impeller blades 98a. In yet a further, fourth embodiment
   impeller 90c shown in Figures 26C and 26D the structure between the impeller blades 98a
   is a webbing 105 that is disposed centrally between the upper and lower planes of the
   impeller. Such a structure does not function as a shroud. The reduced material structure
   or webbing 105 can be of any shape (not just scalloped) or extent, of which Figures 26A
20 26D show two examples.
           A lightweight impeller provides benefits such as manufacturing cost, low rotational
   inertia and is balanced or requires little effort to rotationally balance once manufactured.
   An impeller with low rotational inertia can be quickly accelerated and decelerated.         A
   lightweight, shroudless impeller is therefore suited for quickly responding to fluctuating
25 pressure requirements, such as the normal inhalation and exhalation cycle of a patient
   connected to the breathing assistance device in which the impeller operates.         In other
   embodiments, the impeller need not necessarily be lightweight.
           For example, a conventional shrouded impeller commonly used on a breathing
   assistance device, weighing approximately 17 grams and having inertia of 6 kg.mm2, can
30 respond to pressure fluctuations of 10 cmH20 in approximately 2 seconds. By contrast,
   an impeller in accordance with either embodiment 90,90a, weighing approximately 1.7
   grams and inertia of 0.5 kg.mm2, responds to pressure fluctuations of 10cmH20 in
   approximately 100ms. Figure 40 shows a graph of pressure verses time for a conventional
   shrouded impeller weighing 17 grams. The impeller is operated to attempt to maintain a
35 constant pressure of 4cmH20 during the normal inhalation and exhalation cycle of a
                                                 -36-

   patient. In comparison, Figure 41 shows a graph of pressure verses time for the preferred
   impeller 90, 90a. It can be seen that the decrease in mass and rotational inertia over the
   earlier impeller exhibits much less pressure fluctuation than a conventional impeller of
   Figure 40. The reduced pressure fluctuation is less disruptive to a patient's breathing
 5 process, and therefore advantageously increases patient comfort.
           As mentioned, the lightweight can be achieved by omitting a shroud. However, it
   is not necessary to omit the entire shroud - rather just sufficient shroud to bring the
   weight of the impeller to a suitable level - such as shown in Figures 26A-26D. Therefore,
   lightweight can be achieved by having as much open space (area or volume) between the
10 blades as possible. The open space can be defined in terms of the blade volume to blade
   sweep volume ratio/percentage. That is, the blades sweep a volume X when rotating and
   the blades themselves have a combined volume Y (which is the volume of each blade
   combined). Alternatively, from a plan perspective, the open space can be defined in terms
   of the blade area to the blade sweep area. The ratios should be kept as low as possible.
15 In one embodiment, for example the swept volume of the impeller is approximately
    19,000mm3, where the blades constitute a volume of approximately 1,200mm3. The ratio
   of swept volume to blade volume is therefore approximately 16:1, thereby defining an
   impeller that is lightweight compared to the smaller, more densely designed and heavier
   impellers used in conventional blower units.
20         The lightweight impeller can have a weight for example of less than 2 grams and
   preferably between 0.8 and 1.8 grams, or more preferably, between 1.2 and 1.7 grams,
   or even more preferably 1.7 grams. These are just examples of a preferred embodiment
   and the impeller need not be this weight, but some other weight that renders it
   lightweight.
25         Alternatively, a lightweight impeller can be designed to remove as much of the
   shroud as necessary to bring the moment of inertia to radius ratio down to preferably less
   than 15 gram*mm, and more preferably between 8-12 gram*mm and in one possible
   embodiment approximately 11 gram*mm.             For example, in one possible embodiment,
   such an impeller can have a radius of 35mm, a circumference of 219 mm, and at 15,000
30 rpm a moment of inertia of 344.22, a tip speed of 54.98 m/s, a pressure of 1,800 Pa and
   a tip speed to inertia to radius ratio of 3.5 or more and for example 5.59. More generally,
   a lightweight impeller could have dimensions/parameters within the following ranges (note
   these ranges are indicative - not limiting): Radius: 15mm-60mm; Weight: less than 2
   grams; A pressure ratio to inertia to radius ratio of greater than 50:1 Pascals per
35 gram*mm and preferably 80:1 Pa per gram*mm or more at 1,000Pa.
                                                 -37-

           The lightweight nature of the impeller can be achieved through removing mass
   through any suitable means, such as removing the shroud and/or material from the
   impeller and/or using lighter materials. One possible manner in which to reduce impeller
   mass is to reduce the number of blades.
 5 Motor
           Referring to Figures 27-31B, a first embodiment of the motor 80 will now be
   described with reference to the first impeller 90 embodiment by way of example only,
   although it will be appreciated the motor could alternatively drive the second embodiment
   impeller 90a or any other suitable impeller design. The motor used to drive the impeller
10 90 is shown in cross section in Figure 31A, and various views of the motor components to
   be described can also be seen in Figures 27-30 and 31B. Preferably the motor is a
   brushless DC motor, or permanent magnet synchronous motor. The controller preferably
   contains a microcontroller, microprocessor or similar which utilises a sensorless vector
   control (also termed "field oriented control method"). The central hub 100 of the impeller
15 90 is engaged with a drive shaft 110 that extends from the motor 80. Mounted to the
   shaft is a plurality of, preferably small, magnetic segments that form a rotor 112. In one
   embodiment, the magnet 112 is 20mm in diameter, but more generally the diameter could
   be less than 20mm and preferably between 10mm to 15mm.                 Typically, the magnet
   volume is less than 1600mm3 and can be between 500mm3 and 1600mm3. Surrounding
20 the rotor 112 is a laminated stator 114 (also see Figure 30) having a plurality of poles and
   windings. The windings are selectively energised by the controller via a connector coupled
   to the winding to facilitate rotation of the rotor 112, and therefore the drive shaft 110 and
   impeller 90, about the central axis defined by the centerline of the shaft.
           The drive shaft 110 is held within the motor by a bearing structure. Preferably the
25 bearing structure has one or more bearings 116 and one or more bearing mounts 118.
   The bearing mounts 118 as shown engage with the bearings 116 on an inner surface and
   with the stator assembly on an outer surface. The preferred engagement of the bearing
   mounts to the bearings and the stator assembly is frictional. To promote a frictional
   engagement, the bearing mounts 118 are made of a soft, yet resilient and/or flexible
30 material such as silicone rubber or other elastomeric material. The material can be low
   creep, temperature stable, low compression set with a high tan delta (highly viscous),
   highly damped. Examples comprise:
         .     Dough Moulding Rubbers like - NBR, Nitrile and Flouro silicone;
         "     Thermo Plastic Elastomers (TPE's) like Santoprene by Exxon;
35       .     Thermo Plastic Urethanes like Dynaplast by GLS Corporation;
                                                 -38-

          *      Heat Cured Casting Urethanes like 10T90 by National Urethanes; and
          *      Multiple other cold cast rubbery compounds like RTV (Room Temperature
                 curing Vulcanites) by Dow Corning, Whacker and others.
            Such materials allow the bearing mounts 118 to compress when installed, then
 5 expand into their chosen location to be held in place by engagement expanded dimension
   with a restriction. The mounts 118 are optionally restrained by respective overhangs 119
   provided on upper 120a and lower 120b stator mounts (bobbins) of the stator assembly
   or stator frame between which the stator 114 is sandwiched. The stator frame may be
   configured as an electrical insulator/isolator.       Similarly, the bearings 116 may be
10 restrained by an overhang 118a formed as part of the bearing mounts 118. Either or both
   of the overhangs may be discretely positioned about the inner and outer annulus of the
   bearing mounts, or alternatively, extends around the circumference of the mount to define
   a recess in which the mount is located.
            The bearing mounts 118 provide compliance to the rotatable drive shaft 110. As
15 rotatable objects, such as the rotor 112, shaft 110 and impeller 90 usually suffer from
   some degree of rotational imbalance, the bearing mounts are able to isolate inherent
   rotation induced vibration from the motor rotor. It has been found that the combination
   of the lightweight, shroudless impeller having a low rotational inertia, as described above,
   together with the given compliance of the bearing mounts enables the rotor 112, shaft
20 110 and impeller 90 to be manufactured and any post manufacture balancing process for
   the rotating components entirely omitted. These advantages benefit manufacturing costs
   and time. The lightweight nature of the impeller allows any imbalances to be compensated
   by the bearing mounts.       A lightweight impeller also allows faster speed response of the
   impeller to changing conditions. Any unwanted fluctuations in pressure due the lack of
25 shroud can be compensated for by quickly changing the impeller speed to return pressure
   to the desired level.
            It should be noted that while Figure 31A shows the bearing mounts 118 mounted
   within the stator assembly, they may equally be housed externally to the motor. For
   example, the mounts 118 may instead be mounted within journals formed within the
30 blower casing. Figure 31B shows the bearing mounts 118 in their compressed form, not
   their rest form.
            To provide further vibration damping of the rotational components of the blower,
   the motor and impeller, can optionally be mounted on a compliant mounting device. Figure
   28 shows one embodiment of such a mounting device 120. In accordance with an
35 embodiment of the invention, the mount 120 is most preferably made from a soft, flexible
                                                 -39-

   yet resilient material such as silicone rubber and may operate as a stator isolator. The
   mounting device 120 has an internal recess or seat 122 in which the stator is received
   and retained. Preferably the internal recess is smaller than the outer surface of the motor
   to encourage an interference fit between these components. Figure 27 shows the motor
 5 80 positioned within the mounting device 120. In this embodiment, a first set of a plurality
   of projections 124 extends from the outer peripheral wall of the mounting device 120.
   Additionally, a second set of a plurality of projections 126 extends beneath the lower
   surface of the mounting device 120. The projections 124, 126 provide supporting leverage
   to the mount and motor assembly. During operation of the motor, vibration caused by any
10 imbalance of the rotational components is absorbed by each of the projections 124, 126
   by allowing the body of the mount 120 to move relative to the surface on which or against
   which the projections 124, 126 are supported or are engaged. The first set of projections
   124 is configured to abut or engage the inner surface of the peripheral side wall in the
   upper region 82 of the casing 60. The second set of projections 124 is configured to rest
15 upon or engage with the upper surface of the divider 84 of the casing.
           Figure 42 is a graph of the sound pressure level of a conventional blower unit tested
   in an anechoic chamber. Figure 43 is a graph of the sound pressure lever of a blower unit
   according to the embodiment described above.        It can be seen that the lightweight and
   shroudless impeller 90,90a, the flexible bearing mounts 118 and flexible motor mount 120
20 contribute to a significantly reduced noise output across the tested spectral range of 50Hz
   to 10kHz.
           A second embodiment of the motor and impeller assembly is shown in Figures 32A
   32F. Many aspects of this embodiment are the same as those in the previous embodiment.
   Features described in relation to the previous embodiment             not described in this
25 embodiment can be assumed to exist in this embodiment where appropriate. Like features
   will use the same reference numerals as the previous embodiment. The motor used to
   drive the impeller 90a is shown in cross-section in Figure 32E. This embodiment of the
   motor is shown driving impeller 90a, but it will be appreciated that any of the other
   impeller embodiments described may alternatively be used.         Preferably the motor is a
30 brushless DC motor operated using sensorless vector control ("field oriented control")
   controlled by a microcontroller, microprocessor or similar controller, for example, via a
   connector 255 mounted to a PCB/substrate 256 (such as shown in Figure 32A).               The
   control can be tuned to suit a low inertia impeller. Referring to Figures 32A, 32B and 32E,
   the central hub 100 of the impeller 90a is engaged with a shaft 160 that extends from the
35 motor 161. Mounted to the shaft is a plurality of, preferably small, magnetic segments to
                                                -40-

   form a rotor 162. Surrounding the rotor 162 is a laminated stator 241 having an annular
   outer portion 242 and a plurality of poles 243 and windings 168. The stator is mounted to
   the PCB or other substrate 256 and the windings 168 coupled to the connector 255. The
   stator 241 has an electrical insulator/isolator (forming a stator frame) 270a, 270b covering
 5 the top and bottom of the annular portion 242 and the poles 243.         Each winding 168 is
   preferably assembled on the insulator 270a, 270b over each pole 243.          Protrusions for
   engagement and retainment are provided around the circumference 271 extending
   upwards and at the end of the poles extending upwards 272a and downwards 272b.
           Referring to the plan view of one of the laminations 240 in Figure 32B, each
10 lamination comprises an annular outer portion 242 and a pole portion 243 extending
   radially inwards.   The edge 244 of each pole portion 243 includes a wave shape.         The
   wave shape comprises two concave portions 244a, 244b meeting at a central apex 244c.
   Referring to Figure 32C, when a plurality of the laminations 240 are stacked to create the
   stator 241, each pole 243 has an inner radial face 250 with a wave shape as shown in
15 Figure 32C. The face 250 comprises two concave portions 250a, 250b meeting at a central
   apex 250c. This arrangement reduces cogging. The stator and/or rotor can have a skewed
   magnetisation.     The windings are selectively energised using the controller via the
   connector 255 to facilitate rotation of the rotor, and therefore the shaft 160 and impeller
   90a, about the central axis defined by the centerline of the shaft 160.
20         The shaft 160 is held within the motor by a bearing structure. Preferably the
   bearing structure has one or more bearings 164 and one or more bearing mounts 260
   (see Figure 32D). The bearing mounts 260 as shown engage with the bearings 164 on an
   inner surface 261 and with the stator 241/insulator 270a/270b         on an outer surface as
   shown in Figure 32E. The bearing mount 260 comprises a main annular body 265 that
25 curves from a low point at a central aperture 263 to a higher point at the outer
   circumference 262. The outer circumference comprises an engaging lip 264, preferably
   with a chamfer 264a on the intersection of the outer circumference 262 with the main
   annular body 265. The intersection of the inner aperture 263 with the inner circumference
   261 of the main body 265 also preferably has a chamfer 261a. An annular wall/boss 266
30 extends upwardly from the main annular body 265 at the inner aperture 263. The top
   portion 267 of the annular wall 266 has an overhanging engagement lip 268.               The
   intersection of the lip 268 with the annular wall 266 and with the overhanging lip side wall
   268a are preferably chamfered 268b, 268c. The preferred engagement of the bearing
   mount 260 to the bearings 164 and the stator 241 is frictional. To promote a frictional
35 engagement, the bearing mounts 260 are made of a soft, yet resilient and/or flexible
                                                 -41-

   material such as silicone rubber or other elastomeric material. The material can be low
   creep, temperature stable, low compression set with a high tan delta (highly viscous),
   highly damped. Possible materials were described in relation to the previous embodiment.
   Such materials allow the mounts 260 to compress when installed, then expand into their
 5 chosen location to be held in place by engagement expanded dimension with a restriction.
   They also provide compliance.
           Figure 32E shows the bearing mounts in solid lines in the uninstalled/unassembled
   state, with an upward curvature. The dotted lines show the bearing mounts 260 in the
   installed/assembled state, clipped in to the stator/insulator 279a, 270b. In the installed
10 state (also called engaged state or configuration) the annular body is engaged with the
   stator 241 and/or stator frame 270a, 270b and the annular body 265 is coerced from the
   curved state (shown in solid lines) into an engaged (flat) configuration (shown in dotted
   lines) that provides preload to the one or more bearings by action of the bearing mount
   providing bias provided by the resilient/flexible body acting on the stator and/or stator
15 frame and the bearings. The mounts 260 are optionally restrained by an overhang 272c,
   272d formed on the insulator 270a, 270b. Similarly, the bearings 164 may be restrained
   by an overhang 268 formed as part of the boss 266 on the bearing mount 260. Either or
   both of the overhangs may be discretely positioned about the inner and outer annulus of
   the bearing mounts, or alternatively, extends around the circumference of the mount to
20 define a recess in which the mount is located. The impeller/shaft/rotor is assembled into
   the stator 241 by assembling the bearings 164 on the shaft 160, assembling the bearing
   mounts 260 on the bearings 164 and manipulating the bearing mounts 260 (by hand, jig
   or other means) so they engage with the stator insulator 270a, 270b at each pole 243. In
   an alternative embodiment, the bearing mounts 260 are not coupled directly to the stator
25 or insulator 270a/241 but rather are coupled to another structure such as a housing. Any
   coupling arrangement with any suitable structure can be provided which provides the
   required functions as set out below.
           The bearing mounts 260 provide compliance to the rotatable shaft 160. As
   rotatable objects, such as the rotor 162, shaft 160 and impeller 90a usually suffer from
30 some degree of rotational imbalance, the bearing mounts are able to isolate inherent
   rotation induced vibration from the motor rotor. It has been found that combination of the
   lightweight, shroudless impeller having a low rotational inertia, as described above,
   together with the given compliance of the bearing mounts enables the rotor 162, shaft
   160 and impeller 90a to be manufactured and any post manufacture balancing process for
35 the rotating components entirely omitted. These advantages benefit manufacturing costs
                                               -42-

   and time. The lightweight nature of the impeller 90a allows any imbalances/misalignment
   to be compensated by the bearing mounts 260 - the arrangement is self aligning due to
   the bearing mount compliance (due to resilience and/or flexibility, for example).         The
   bearing mount construction, including the geometry and material, also provides axial
 5 preload on the bearings, e.g. of up to 7 Newtons.        The annular nature of the bearing
   provides consistent/even preload around the bearing 164.        The resilient/flexible curved
   annular body allows the bearing to be installed in place and provide the preload.         The
   annular nature of the bearing mount 260 provides for even preload around the bearing,
   while the low creep construction material maintains preload. The material of the bearing
10 mounts 260 is also preferably a viscoelastic damping material that provides damping,
   which reduces the likelihood of resonance during operation of the motor.              Such a
   viscoelastic material can also provide the required resilience/flexibility to provide the
   preload.  An example of such a material is a Thermo Plastic Urethane like Dynaplast by
   GLS Corporation.    Other materials resilient and/or flexible materials mentioned above for
15 the bearing mount 260 could be adapted to provide the required damping by adding mica.
   A lightweight impeller also allows faster speed response of the impeller to changing
   conditions.   Any unwanted fluctuations in pressure due the lack of shroud can be
   compensated for by quickly changing the impeller speed to return pressure to the desired
   level. The bearing mounts also provide vibration isolation.
20        To provide further vibration damping of the rotational components of the blower,
   the motor and impeller, can optionally be mounted on a compliant mounting device (motor
   mount) 280. Figures 32A, 32E and 32F show one embodiment of such a mounting device
   280. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the mount is most preferably
   made from a soft, flexible yet resilient material such as silicone rubber. The mounting
25 device 280 has an annular body 282 with upper and lower engaging lips 282a, 282b that
   define an internal recess 281 in which the stator 241 is disposed. Preferably the internal
   recess 281 is smaller than the outer surface of the stator to encourage an interference fit
   between these components. Figure 32E shows the motor positioned within the mounting
   recess 281.
30         A plurality of projections 283 encircles the upper and lower surfaces of the mount
   280. The end of projection extends past the upper and lower surfaces of the mount to
   provide supporting leverage to the mount and motor assembly. During operation of the
   motor, vibration caused by any imbalance of the rotational components is absorbed by
   each of the projections by allowing the body of the mount 280 to move relative to the
35 surface on which the projections 283 are supported.
                                                -43-

            The description above describes embodiments of a blower unit comprising a
   lightweight impeller assembly. Figures 31A and 32E show embodiments with a metal (e.g.
   steel) shaft 110,160 assembled on a magnet rotor 112,162.        The metal shaft is press fit
   into an aperture in the magnet rotor. This requires fine tolerance control to ensure a good
 5 tight fit to reduce slipping. However, the fit should not be so tight as to risk cracking the
   magnet rotor.
            Alternative shaft and magnet rotor assemblies are shown in Figures 33A to 33F,
   which can be used in the stator in place of the assembly shown in Figure 31A or 32E.
            Figures 33A, 33B and 33C show a possible alternative rotor assembly of the
10 embodiments described above. The assembly comprises a metal shaft 400 (see Figure
   33C) and a magnet rotor 401.      The magnet rotor 401 has a central opening 402. The
   central opening 402 comprises a central portion with indents 403a to 403d. The central
   opening also comprises a profiled edge through a central cross-section providing a stepped
   ledge 408 (see Figure 33B). The metal shaft 400 has a knurled section 409b in its exterior
15 and extends through the central opening 402.      A plastic insert 403 is injection moulded
   between the shaft 400 and the magnet rotor 401 in the central opening 402. The plastic
   insert 403 is overmoulded onto the stepped ledge 408 of the magnet rotor. This provides
   an insert 403 with a similar exterior shape to the central opening 402.       An interlocking
   (cog dog) is formed between the shaft 400 and overmoulded (insert) material 403, so that
20 the metal shaft knurled section 409b engages with the overmoulded insert 403 to couple
   the shaft 400 to the magnet rotor 401. The assembly 404 can be used in the embodiments
   described above such as in Figures 31A and 32E, wherein the shaft 110,160 and magnet
   rotor 112,162 of those embodiments are replaced with the metal shaft 400/plastic insert
   403/magnet rotor 401 assembly 404 as described in Figures 33A, 33B and 32C.               The
25 assembly can be created as shown in Figure 33G.        The rotor is placed in a mould, step
   440, the shaft is introduced, step 441, the other mould half is introduced, step 442, the
   insert is injection moulded between the shaft/rotor, step 443, and then the mould
   removed, step 444.
            Figure 33D shows plan, elevation and isometric views of a magnet rotor and shaft
30 assembly 420 according to another alternative embodiment. The assembly 420 comprises
   a rotor 401 formed from a magnet material. The magnet rotor 401 has a central opening
   402. The central opening 402 comprises a central portion with indents 403a to 403d. The
   central opening also comprises a profiled edge through a central cross-section providing
   a stepped ledge 408.
                                               -44-

           The assembly 420 also comprises a plastic shaft 421 that extends through the
   centre of the insert opening 410 and is overmoulded onto the magnet rotor 401 as will
   described below. When overmoulded, the shaft comprises an integral overmould magnet
   insert portion 423. The shaft 421 can be formed to comprise a hex 422 or other location
 5 profile for press fit coupling with the impeller. The plastic shaft 421 comprises any suitable
   plastic or combination thereof, such as acety or polypropylene, although any suitable
   injection moulding or other plastic could be used.
           The assembly 420 can be used in the embodiments described above such as in
   Figures 31A and 32E, wherein the shaft 110,160 and magnet rotor 112,162 of those
10 embodiments are replaced with the plastic shaft 421/magnet rotor 401 assembly 420 as
   described in Figure 33D.
            Figures 33E and 33F show an injection moulding tool that can be used to
   manufacture the shaft/rotor assembly 420, and Figure 33H is a flow diagram of a method
   of manufacture. The tool 420 is an open and close two-part mould tool comprising a first
15 mould part/portion 431a and a second mould part/portion 431b that come together to
   form a mould/cavity 432 comprising a magnet jig 433. The mould comprises a cavity to
   form the shaft 421, hex fit shape 422 and overmould portion 423. During manufacture of
   the assembly 420, a magnet rotor 401 with an opening 402 as described above is
   introduced into the mould and placed in position in one half of the mould forming the jig
20 433, step 450. The top portion 421a of the mould is placed in position to create the mould
   cavity 432 with the bottom portion 421b, step 451. An injection moulding process starts,
   step 452, to injection mould plastic to create the shaft 421 overmoulded onto the magnet
   rotor 401. The injection moulding process overmoulds plastic over the stepped ledge 408
   portion of the rotor magnet 401 to create the insert portion 423. Once the injection
25 moulding process is complete, the mould portions 421a, 421b are removed leaving the
   assembly 420, step 453. The assembly 420 can then be used in the motor of Figures 31A
   or Figure 32E, for example.
            Previously, it has not been possible to use a plastic shaft/rotor assembly in the
   motor of a blower of a CPAP machine or similar. A plastic shaft is not sufficiently strong to
30 withstand the forces involved in such motors. However, in the lightweight impeller
   embodiments described above, the forces are such that a plastic shaft rotor becomes a
   possibility. The lightweight and low inertia nature of the rotor along with the compliant
   bearing mount and other features that reduce unbalancing forces and other forces enable
   the use of a plastic shaft. Both the plastic rotor assembly and the method of manufacture
35 provide advantages over existing metal shaft rotors.
                                                  -45-

           The combination of various features of the motor and impeller provide advantages,
   which can be achieved using a single impeller.        Using a lightweight/low inertia impeller
   (e.g. by removing some or all of the shroud and/or reducing blade material) reduces
   imbalance of the impeller due to manufacturing tolerances. Previously, after manufacture
 5 and during assembly of a blower, it has been necessary to remove/add material to the
   impeller to improve balancing.      The lightweight nature of the impeller means that any
   small imbalance can be tolerated without requiring rectification.       Coupled to this, where
   the imbalance is not small enough, the resilient/flexible bearing structure mounts 118
   and/or stator mount 120 can compensate for any imbalance in the impeller.               As the
10 impeller is lightweight enough, any imbalance is of a small enough magnitude to be
   compensated for by the bearing structure mounts 118, without the need for altering the
   weight of the impeller during assembly.       In addition to this, small magnets in the motor
   (combined with the bearing structure) remove the need for balancing during assembly,
   and improve dynamic performance.
15         The resilient/flexible bearing structure allows for self-alignment, compliance,
   damping and preload of the impeller and shaft assembly.          This makes assembly easier,
   and in combination with the lightweight/low inertia impeller reduce or negates the need
   for balancing modifications during assembly, as mentioned previously.             The bearing
   structure provides for relaxed tolerances during manufacture as it compensates for larger
20 tolerances.    The bearing structure also isolates and/or damps vibrations, also allowing
   high RPM speeds of the impeller where necessary. The stator frame/motor mount also
   provides vibration isolation.
           The configuration of the casing that separates the blower into different interior
   regions separates out the high velocity region to reduce noise.           This allows for and
25 maintains a constant high velocity of flow while diffusing the velocity to pressure.
           The use of a plastic shaft also provides a number of benefits over a metal (e.g.
   steel) shaft, including (but not limited to) the following:
           The reliability risks associated with dissimilar materials are reduced.
           The knurled interface between the cog/dog insert and the shaft does not have to
30 be monitored for cracking, slipping, run out, shrinkage, fluid ingress/ corrosion.
           The impeller to shaft interface is improved and carries similar reduced reliability
   risks. It is less prone to cracking because of similar thermal expansion (due to plastic on
   plastic press fitting). There is reduced chance of slipping because of the opportunity to
   add some keying feature like a hex or grooves.
                                                  -46-

           The plastic shaft assembly is a press fit rather than a sliding fit so is more stable
   with less chance of rattles.
           The cost relative to a metal shaft is reduced. This is because of the following:
           Manufacturing the shaft to the tolerance for a sliding fit is not required because the
 5 plasticity of the plastic shaft allows for much wider tolerance or inaccuracy to press fit the
   bearings.
           The need for grinding of the shaft after knurling to re-establish straightness is not
   required.
           The handling and inserting the shaft into the mould is not required.
10         It is possible to use materials with better vibration absorption properties than steel.
           Ease of assembly can be improved by reducing the length of the bearing press fit
   engagement by reducing shaft diameter with a hex, undercutting the impeller side of the
   shaft.
           In general, the following advantages of the motor and impeller in this embodiment
15 are provided for by the combination of one or more features as follows:
    Advantage                                      Features providing advantage
                                                   Provide different regions in the casing,
    Low noise impeller
                                                   one containing the impeller
                                                   Low cogging torque
                                                   Sensorless    vector   drive/field  oriented
                                                   control
                                                   Low inertia impeller (achieved through
    Fast responding blower
                                                   shroudless/lightweight construction)
                                                   Small magnet with diameter less than
                                                   20mm
                                                   Sensorless vector drive
    Lower cost                                     No balancing required during assembly
                                                   Small volume magnet
                                                   Simple bearing mount
                                                   One piece impeller
    Assembly without balancing                     Low inertia impeller/lightweight
                                                   Flexible/resilient bearing structure
                                                   Motor mount/stator frame isolator
                                                   Low RPM impeller
                                                 -47-

                                                  Small magnet with diameter less than
                                                  20mm
                                                  One piece impeller
     Large diameter impeller/Low RPM              Low inertia impeller
                                                  Use   of plastic shaft     which becomes
    Simplified    manufacture,   lower   costs,
                                                  possible  due    to  lightweight  impeller,
                                                  balancing advantages and other features
   Headgear
           Referring to Figures 34-39, embodiments of various headgear configurations for
   securing the respiratory device 20 to the user's head will be described in further detail.
 5 These embodiments are provided by way of example only and it will be appreciated by
   those skilled in the art of respiratory device patient interfaces that various alternative
   headgear configurations could alternatively be used. Typically, the headgear comprises
   one or more headstraps that are connected to the respiratory device and which extend
   around the user's head to secure or mount the respiratory device to the user's head.
10         Referring to Figure 34, a first embodiment of the headgear 201 for securing the
   respiratory device 20 to a user's 1 head is shown.        In this embodiment, the headgear
   comprises an upper headgear strap 203 that is coupled at each end to a respective side
   of the forehead support 32 and which extends around the back of the user's head at a
   height that is in the forehead region of the user's head above their ears.      In particular,
15 each end of the headgear strap 203 is coupled or connected to a respective connection
   aperture 40 provided in forehead support 32 of the main body 22. The headgear 201 also
   comprises a lower headgear strap 205 that is configured to secure or hold the lower part
   of the respiratory device 20 in the region of the mask 26 against the user's face and is
   primarily configured to hold the mask 26 in a sealed engagement with the user's face
20 around their nose. The headgear straps 203,205 in this embodiment are formed from a
   laminated sheet of open cell foam sandwiched between two sheets of textile fabric,
   although any other suitable material could be used.
           In this embodiment, the lower headgear strap 205 is connected to the mask body
   34 of the main body 22 of the respiratory device by an elongate glider member 207. In
25 particular, the elongate glider member extends across the front of the mask body 34 and
   attaches to the mask body via at least one clip 52.        In this embodiment, the elongate
   glider member 207 may slide or glide within the clips 52 so that the mask assembly may
   move laterally with respect to the headgear strap 205. The lower headgear strap 205 is
                                                -48-

   coupled at either end to a respective end of elongate glider member 207.              In this
   embodiment, each end of the lower strap 205 is coupled or looped about a hook formation
   207a formed at each end of the elongate glider member 207. In alternative embodiments,
   it will be appreciated that a fixed or static arrangement for the connection of the lower
 5 strap to the mask body may be employed.
   Integrated battery headgear
            Referring to Figure 35A, a second embodiment 211 of the headgear for mounting
   the respiratory device 20 to the user's 1 head is shown. In this embodiment, the headgear
   201 comprises upper 213 and lower 215 headgear straps that are coupled to the
10 respiratory device in a similar manner to the upper and lower headgear straps described
   with respect to the headgear embodiment 201 of Figure 34. However, in this embodiment
   the power supply module or modules of the respiratory device, which may be in the form
   of one or more battery packages that are integrated, fixed or mounted to the headgear.
   In this embodiment, either or both of the upper 213 and lower 215 headgear strap
15 comprise integrated battery packs or battery modules that are connected together and
   configured to supply power to the respiratory device 20 via a power loom or cable 217
   which is connected to the batteries.
            The batteries may be integrated within the straps 213, 215 in various ways.       In
   one embodiment, the straps may be formed of material comprising internal pouches,
20 pockets or chambers within which the batteries are retained. The recesses or cavities in
   the head straps may be sealed or openable for the removal and replacement of batteries
   if desired.    The battery packs need not necessarily be mounted within or inside the
   headgear.     For example, the one or more battery pack or packages may be releasably
   mounted to any part of the headgear such that they are detachable from the headgear.
25          Typically the type and configuration of the batteries will be selected based on
   parameters such as energy density per volume and mass, ie, Watt-hours per kilogram,
   and Watt-hours per cubic centimeter.       Some embodiments may employ high density
   batteries such as Lithium-polymer and Lithium-Ion batteries.        Alternatively, it will be
   appreciated that non-rechargeable or disposable batteries may alternatively be employed
30 if desired.
            Referring to Figure 35B, a third embodiment of the headgear 221 is shown for
   mounting the respiratory device 20 to the user's head.         Again, the headgear 221 is
   provided with an upper 203 and lower 205 head straps of the type described with respect
   to the first embodiment headgear 201 in Figure 34.          Additionally, a flexible battery
35 package module 223 is provided which is configured to extend at least partially over the
                                                -49-

   top of the user's head and with the battery package module 223 being secured to the
   upper strap 203 of the headgear via webbed or mesh material. In particular, a base layer
   of material, whether webbed, mesh or other flexible material, is configured to extend over
   at least a part of the top of the user's head and which is secured on either side of the
 5 user's head to the upper strap 203. The battery package module 223 may comprise one
   or more batteries that supply power to the respiratory device via power cable 217 as
   described with reference to Figure 35A. The battery package module 223 may comprise
   flexible material which has internal pouches, pockets or recesses for securely receiving
   and retaining one or more batteries.
10         In these embodiments in which the battery packs are provided in or otherwise
   mounted to the headgear, the headgear may also comprise one or more shielding plates
   that are located between the batteries and the user's head when the headgear is being
   worn. The shielding plate or plates provide a physical and electromagnetic shield for the
   user. In some embodiments, the shielding plates may be formed from a metallic material.
15 In some embodiments, the shielding plates may be embedded inside or integrated with
   the headgear material for user comfort. Alternatively, the shielding plates may be fixed
   or releasably mounted to the headgear in other suitable ways.
   Further alternative headgear configurations
           Figures 36-39 show various other respiratory device configurations and alternative
20 headgear configurations, although the operation and functionality is similar to that
   previously described in regard to the respiratory device 20.
           Figure 36 shows a respiratory device 230 comprising a main housing 231 having a
   blower unit 232 located at the top of the respiratory device and which is configured to be
   mounted in the forehead region of the user 1, a mask assembly 233, and main body 231.
25 The headgear of the respiratory device comprises upper 234 and lower 235 headgear
   straps that are configured to secure the respiratory device to the user in a manner
   described with reference to Figures 34-35B. In this embodiment, the blower unit 232 is
   provided with one or more user operable control buttons 236 for the user interface, and
   which may be configured to switch the blower unit on and off, and/or control one or more
30 operational modes. Figures 37-39 show the respiratory device 203 with various different
   control button 236 configurations.   The user interface may comprise a single button, 2
   buttons, or multiple buttons, which may act independently or interactively to control one
   or more operational modes and/or functions of the device. It will be appreciated that the
   control button or buttons may be any form of tactile switch, dial, or knob, or a touch
35 sensitive or any other operable user interface mechanism.      In some embodiments, the
                                              -50-

   control button or buttons are located on the front face of the blower unit in the forehead
   region of the respiratory device, but may alternatively be located on the main body or
   patient interface or other regions of the respiratory device if desired.
   Base station configurations
 5         With reference to Figures 44-50, various base station configurations for a wearable
   respiratory device of the type or types previously explained will be described in further
   detail by way of example only.         Various wireless power transfer configurations are
   explained, and the typical connectivity range between the transmitter and receiver of such
   systems may be in some embodiments upto 2m, but it will be appreciated that higher
10 ranges may be achieved depending on the hardware employed. It will be appreciated that
   the features of the various base station embodiments may be combined and interchanged
   as desired to form further configurations.
           In overview, in various embodiments, the base stations may comprise any one or
   more of the following modules or systems: a power supply system that is operable to
15 supply power to the head-mounted respiratory device; a data transfer system that is
   operable to send and receive data to and from the head-mounted respiratory device; and
   a control system that is operable to control the head-mounted respiratory device via
   control signals. The control system may operate automatically and/or may comprise an
   operable user interface to enable a user to control the head-mounted respiratory device.
20 Each of these systems may operatively connect to the head-mounted respiratory device
   via hardwiring, such as a connection cable, and/or wirelessly over a wireless medium.
           In some embodiments, the base station is additionally configured as a physical
   docking station upon which the head-mounted respiratory device may be stored and/or
   mounted when not in use.      However, in other embodiments the base station carries out
25 the power supply, data transfer, and/or control aspects when connected via hardwiring or
   in wireless connectivity range.
   First embodiment base station - with separate wireless power transfer mat
           Referring to Figure 44, in this first embodiment the base station 300 is in the form
   of a bedside module that is configured to be locatable near the user's bed, although it will
30 be appreciated that the base station is portable such that is locatable in any suitable
   position that is in range of the respiratory device when being used.       The base station
   comprises a data transfer system having one or more communication modules for
   communicating with the respiratory device 301 and other external devices or systems
   over any type of wireless communication medium, protocol or network, including, but not
35 limited to Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, 3G cellular or similar, or alternatively using hardwired
                                                  -51-

   communication     links.   In this   embodiment,      the  base station    comprises   a  first
   communication module 302 that is configured to communicate with an external system
   307 or network for transmitting compliance data to health service providers or other
   related parties regarding the user's use of the respiratory device.      In this embodiment,
 5 the first communication module 302 of the base station communicates over a wireless
   medium with the external system 307, but alternatively a hardwired communication link
   or connection could be employed. For example, the base station may be connected to an
   external system, such as a Personal Computer, server, network such as a LAN or the like
   via a communication cable link using USB or Ethernet or similar. It will also be appreciated
10 that the base station may alternatively be connected, wirelessly or via a hardwired
   connection, to a standalone communication or transmission device for sending data to
   another device or system.
           The base station also comprises a second communication module 303a, which
   communicates, either wirelessly or via a hardwired connection, with a complementary
15 communication module 303b onboard the respiratory device. The second communication
   module can be used to retrieve usage compliance data from the respiratory device for
   storage in the base station on an integrated data storage medium and/or further
   transmission to an external system as above. The second communication module 303a is
   also operable to send control signals to configure operating parameters or settings of the
20 respiratory device. The base station comprises a control system for generating the control
   signals either automatically or in response to signals generated by a user interface that is
   operable by a user to control such operating parameters or settings via the second
   communication module 303a.        By way of example, the control signals may be used to
   initiate various operational modes of the respiratory device including, but not limited to,
25 on/off mode in which the device is switchable between on and off, charging mode in which
   the onboard power supply is charged, drying mode in which the blower unit is run for a
   predetermined time to dry the gases flow path after use, and data transfer mode when
   user usage data and/or sensor data is transferred to the base station.
            In some embodiments, the control system may be configured to automatically send
30 control signals to the respiratory device to control one or more of the operational modes
   based on whether an operative connection (wired or wireless) between the base station
   and respiratory device is detected, including initiating, halting or otherwise controlling the
   operational modes.
                                               -52-

           The second communication module 303a may optionally be configured to receive
   sensor signals and/or sensor data directly from any wireless sensors onboard the
   respiratory device.
           Removable data storage media may also be provided on either or both of the
 5 respiratory device 301 and base station 300 to enable compliance data to be transferred.
           The base station may be powered by a power supply such as a standalone AC
   power adaptor 304 that is coupled to a mains AC voltage supply 306. It will be appreciated
   that AC power adaptor circuitry may be integrated into the base station in alternative
   embodiments.
10         In this embodiment, the base station provides a power supply system in the form
   of a connected power supply mat 305 that is configured to transfer power to the un
   tethered respiratory device 301 via wireless power transfer. In use, the power supply mat
   305 is located under the user's pillow when they are wearing the respiratory device while
   sleeping for loose-coupled power transfer.     The power received from the power supply
15 mat may be used to power the respiratory device and/or charge any energy storage device
   onboard the respiratory device, such as battery packs, super-capacitors, or the like. In
   this embodiment, power is transmitted to the respiratory device 301 from the power
   supply mat 305 using magnetic resonance power transfer or similar methods.
           The power supply system may also optionally be configured to directly power any
20 wireless sensors onboard the respiratory device.
   Second embodiment base station - with integrated wireless power transfer
           Referring to Figure 45, the second embodiment base station 310 is similar to the
   first and similar reference numerals represent similar features and functionality.     The
   primary difference with the second embodiment is that the wireless power transfer
25 hardware is integrated into the base station such that the data communications and power
   transfer can occur simultaneously across the same connection, i.e. the wireless connection
   medium between the base station and wearable respiratory device. As shown, the base
   station may wirelessly power 311 a wearable respiratory device 312 which does not have
   onboard energy storage (such as a battery pack or super-capacitors) or power and/or
30 charge a wearable respiratory device 313 which does have onboard energy storage. As
   shown, the base station and respiratory devices also comprise communication modules as
   described in the first embodiment.
   Third embodiment base station - with data hub
           Referring to Figure 46, the third embodiment base station is in the form of a data
35 hub 320.      The data hub 320 communicates with the respiratory device 322 over
                                               -53-

   communication modules 303a,303b as before. The data hub 320 also communicates
   wirelessly 302      with an  external  system    321,  such as   a computer    or portable
   communications device such as a laptop, tablet, smart phone or similar. A computer or
   application program running on the external system may be operable by a user to
 5 wirelessly control the settings or operating parameters of the respiratory device. It will
   be appreciated that the external system 321 and respiratory device 322 may communicate
   directly without the data hub 320 in alternative embodiments. As before, compliance data
   and device settings are relayed wirelessly from the respiratory device to the standalone
   data hub 320 for storage and or further wireless transmission to external systems.
10 Removable media could also be used to transfer data for either of these two steps.
           In this third embodiment configuration, a power supply 304, such as an AC adaptor
   connectable to the AC mains voltage 306, is connectable via a power cable 327 to the
   respiratory device components for powering or charging, ie the respiratory device is
   physically plugged into the power supply for operation and/or charging of any onboard
15 energy storage devices. The intention is for the battery to be charged while the device is
   not in use, however the device can be used and charged simultaneously in a tethered
   mode of operation as shown at 325. Similarly the battery can be removed from the
   headgear/blower for charging as shown at 324 or the power supply may be directly
   plugged into the respiratory device for battery-less use as shown at 326. The power supply
20 connection to the battery or respiratory device may contain a breakaway electrical
   connection to allow the cable to pull away from the battery or device if significant strain
   is applied.
   Fourth embodiment base station - with battery dock
           Referring to Figure 47, the fourth embodiment base station 330 again comprises
25 communication modules 302, 303 to enable the transmission and storage of compliance
   data, and to enable the user to change the respiratory device operation settings via a user
   interface on the base station.
           The base station is powered by an AC adaptor 304 connected to the AC mains
   voltage supply 306, although it will be appreciated that the AC adaptor circuitry could
30 alternatively be integrated into the base station.    The base station comprises a battery
   dock for receiving a removable energy storage device of the respiratory device such as a
   battery or battery pack 331 for recharging, ie the battery is physically removed from the
   headgear of the respiratory device and docked into the base station to charge. A power
   cable 332 extends from the base station and is optionally connectable to the respiratory
35 device for powering operation and/or charging.      For example, the power cable 332 may
                                               -54-

   be connected to a respiratory device 333 with an onboard battery 334 to allow tethered
   use of the respiratory device and simultaneous charging of the battery. Alternatively or
   additionally, the power cable may be plugged into a battery-less respiratory device as
   shown at 335 to allow tethered use of such a device. Again, the power cable connection
 5 to the battery or respiratory device may contain a breakaway electrical connection to allow
   the cable to pull away from the device if significant strain is applied.
   Fifth embodiment base station - with integrated wireless power transfer mat
            Referring to Figure 48, the fifth embodiment base station 340 has a configuration
   that is similar to the fourth embodiment and like reference numerals represent like
10 features and functionality.     The primary difference is that the fifth embodiment base
   station 340 does not have a battery dock, but is provided with an integrated power
   charging mat 341 of the type described in the first embodiment base station and which is
   configured to transfer power to the respiratory device 342 via wireless power transfer.
   For example, the battery of the respiratory device is physically placed on to the charging
15 mat 341 to charge. Charging can occur either with the battery still attached to the
   respiratory device (as shown) or with the battery removed and placed on the mat by itself.
   The charging mat 341 can be open sided (as shown) or incorporated within an enclosure
   so the device is concealed while charging.
   Sixth embodiment base station - with pluq-in charge
20          Referring to Figure 49, sixth embodiment base station 350 has a configuration that
   is similar to the fourth embodiment and like reference numerals represent like features
   and functionality. The primary difference is that the sixth embodiment base station 350
   does not have a battery dock, but the power cable 332 is connectable to a removable
   battery pack 336 from the respiratory device if desired.
25 Seventh embodiment base station - with separate wireless power and data
   transfer mat
            Referring to Figure 50, the seventh embodiment base station 360 is similar to the
   first and similar reference numerals represent similar features and functionality.      The
   primary difference with the seventh embodiment is that the communication module for
30 communicating with the respiratory device 301 is integrated into the power supply mat
   305.    In particular, the power supply mat 305 comprises both wireless power transfer
   transmitter or transmitter circuitry 305a and a communication module communication
   circuitry 305b.    The wireless power transfer transmitter 305a is configured to provide
   loose-coupled power transfer to a complimentary wireless power transfer receiver or
35 receiver circuitry 362a provided on a control board 362 of the respiratory device 301.
                                                -55-

   Likewise, the control board also comprises a communication module communication
   circuitry 362b for communicating with the communication module 305b of the power
   supply mat 305. This configuration enables both power and data to be transferred from
   the power supply mat 305 to the respiratory device 301 across the same or single wireless
 5 connection medium or link 365.
           As shown, the power transfer at 305 is connected via a cable 367 to the base
   station 360.    This connection 367 enables the base station 360 to power the wireless
   power transfer circuitry of the power supply mat 305 and in addition to transmit and
   receive data to and from the respiratory device. In particular, the base station may send
10 control signals to configure operating parameters or settings for the respiratory device
   and may retrieve usage compliance data from the respiratory device as described with
   reference to the first embodiment of the base station in Figure 44.
           The power received from the power supply mat may be used to power the
   respiratory device and/or charge any energy storage device on board the respiratory
15 device, such as battery packs, super capacitors, or the like, as described in the first
   embodiment with reference to Figure 44.
           In this seventh embodiment, the control board 362 on board the respiratory device
   is shown mounted to the headgear 363 and in particular to the top headstrap in the
   location of the top of the user's head. The control board 362 is then connected via a cable
20 364 to the blower unit of the respiratory device 301 and/or any additional control circuitry
   in the blower unit housing.         However, it will be appreciated that in alternative
   embodiments the control board 362 may be integrated into the main respiratory device
   housing rather than being mounted to the headgear as shown.
            The foregoing description of the invention includes preferred forms thereof.
25 Modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention as
   defined by the accompany claims.
                                               -56-

   CLAIMS:
   1. A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus configured to provide a respiratory
      gases stream to a user, comprising: a patient interface; and a blower unit comprising
 5    a lightweight impeller, the blower unit being fixedly or releasably mounted to the front
      of the patient interface and having a gases inlet to receive a supply of gases from the
      surrounding atmosphere and being operable to generate a pressurised gases stream at
      a gases outlet, and wherein the patient interface has a gases inlet which is fluidly
      connected to the gases outlet of the blower unit and which is configured to deliver the
10    pressurised gases to the user's nose and/or mouth via one or more gases outlets, and
      wherein a gases flow path from the gases inlet of the blower unit to the gases outlet(s)
      of the patient interface is substantially sealed such that there is zero bias flow along
      the gases flow path, and wherein the apparatus is configured so that excess exhaled
      gases from the user vent back through the gases flow path in the opposite direction of
15    the pressurised gases stream and exit the head-mountable respiratory assistance
      apparatus into the atmosphere from the gases inlet of the blower unit.
   2. A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the
      gases flow path volume between the gases inlet of the blower unit and the gases
20    outlet(s) of the patient interface is less than approximately 200mL.
   3. A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the
      gases flow path volume between the gases inlet of the blower unit and the gases outlet
      of the patient interface is in the range of approximately 50mL to approximately 150mL.
25
   4. A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 1 further
      comprising headgear that is configured to secure the apparatus to the head of a user,
      the headgear comprising one or more headstraps.
30 5.   A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the
        respiratory assistance apparatus further comprises one or more onboard power supply
        modules that are configured to supply power to the apparatus, and wherein the power
        supply modules are mounted to or integrated with the headgear.
                                                 -57-

   6.    A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 5 wherein one
         or more pockets are provided within the headstrap(s) within which the one or more
         power supply module(s) are retained.
 5 7.    A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the
         pocket(s) are openable to enable removal of the power supply module(s).
   8.    A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the
         power supply module(s) are releasably mounted to a part of the headgear such that
10       they are detachable from the headgear.
   9.    A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 5
         8 wherein the power supply module(s) comprises one or more energy storage devices
         selected from the following: batteries, fuel cells, and/or capacitors.
15
   10.      A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
       1-8 wherein the lightweight impeller of the blower unit is shroudless.
   11.      A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 10 wherein
20     the blower unit further comprises a casing having upper and lower internal surfaces
       that enclose the impeller, and wherein the impeller has a plurality of blades that are
       substantially open to the upper and lower internal surfaces of the casing by virtue of
       being shroudless.
25 12.      A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
       1-8 further comprising an onboard electronic controller that is mounted to or within the
       respiratory assistance apparatus and which is operable to control the pressure of
       respiratory gases delivered to the user by controlling the blower unit.
30 13.      A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 12 further
       comprising one or more sensors mounted to or within the respiratory assistance
       apparatus that are      configured  to  sense operational     parameters and   generate
       representative sensor signals.
35 14.      A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 13 wherein
     the one or more sensors are wireless sensors.
                                                 -58-

   15.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 14 wherein
     the one or more wireless sensor are configured to send the generated sensor signals to
     the controller.
 5 16.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 14 wherein
   the one or more wireless sensors are configured to transmit, directly or indirectly, the
   generated sensor signals wirelessly to a separate external device or system.
   17.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 14 wherein
10 the one or more wireless sensors are powered wirelessly by a wireless power transfer
   system that is wirelessly connected to the respiratory assistance apparatus.
   18      A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
   1-8 further comprising a wireless communication module that is operable to receive and
15 send data to external devices and/or systems.
   19      A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 18 wherein
   the respiratory assistance apparatus comprises one or more sensors that are configured
   to sense operational parameters and generate representative sensor signals, and wherein
20 the communication module is configured to send the generated sensor signals to a
   separate external device or system.
   20.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to claim 18 further
   comprising an onboard electronic controller that is configured to store usage data
25 indicative of the user's use of the respiratory assistance apparatus, and wherein the
   communication module is configured to transfer the usage data wirelessly to a separate
   external device or system.
   21.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
30 1-8 further comprising an onboard wireless power transfer receiver that is configured to
   receive power from a wireless power transfer transmitter.
   22.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
   1-4 further comprising an onboard power supply module.
35
                                              -59-

   23.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
   1-8 wherein the apparatus is configured as a positive airway pressure (PAP) device.
   24.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
 5 1-8 wherein the patient interface comprises a nasal mask that is configured to sealingly
   engage with the user's face so as to cover their nose.
   25.     A head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
   1-8 wherein the patient interface comprises any one of the following: a full face mask
10 configured to sealingly engage with the user's face so as to cover their nose and mouth;
   a nasal pillows mask that sealingly engages the user's nostrils; an unsealed nasal cannula
   that is configured to be positioned inside the user's nostrils; or an oral interface that is
   configured to sealingly engage with or within the user's mouth.
15 26.     A respiratory assistance system comprising:
           a head-mountable respiratory assistance apparatus according to any one of claims
     1-8; and
           a wireless power supply system that is configured to supply power wirelessly to the
     respiratory assistance apparatus.
20
   27.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 26 wherein the wireless power
   supply is configured to supply power to the respiratory assistance apparatus for powering
   of the blower unit.
25 28.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 26 wherein the respiratory
   assistance apparatus comprises one or more sensors that are configured to sense various
   operational parameters and generate representative sensor signals, and wherein the
   wireless power supply is configured to supply power to the sensors.
30 29.     A respiratory    assistance system   comprising    a  head-mountable     respiratory
   assistance apparatus according to any one of claims 1-8 that is configured to be
   operatively connectable to a separate base station, the base station comprising:
           a power supply system that is operable to supply power to the respiratory
       assistance apparatus;
35         a data transfer system that is operable to send and receive data to and from the
       respiratory assistance apparatus; and
                                              -60-

           a control system that is operable to control the respiratory assistance apparatus
      via control signals.
   30.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 29 wherein the power supply
 5 system of the base station is configured to transfer power to the respiratory assistance
   apparatus via one or more power transfer cables.
   31.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 29 wherein the power supply
   system of the base station comprises wireless power transfer circuitry that is configured
10 to transfer power to the respiratory assistance apparatus wirelessly.
   32.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 31 wherein the data transfer
   system of the base station comprises a first communication module that is operable to
   transfer data between the base station and the respiratory assistance apparatus over a
15 wired or wireless communication medium.
   33.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 32 wherein the data transfer
   system of the base station further comprises a second communication module that is
   operable to transfer data between the base station and an external server over a wired or
20 wireless communication medium.
   34.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 29 wherein the control system
   of the base station is operable to send control signals to the respiratory assistance
   apparatus to control any one or more of the following operational modes: on/off mode,
25 charging mode, drying mode, and/or data transfer mode.
   35.     A respiratory assistance system according to claim 34 wherein the control system
   of the base station is configured to automatically send control signals to the respiratory
   assistance apparatus to control one or more operational modes based on whether an
30 operative connection between the base station and the respiratory assistance apparatus
   is detected.
35
                                               -61-

                                 <U+270D><U+270C><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                               <U+271D> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                    <U+2714>
 <U+2719>
 <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>                                               <U+270F><U+2712>
          <U+2713>
                           <U+2711>                   <U+2715>
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                    <U+270D><U+270C><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                                    <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
               <U+2714>
 <U+2718><U+2719>
 <U+2719><U+2717>                            <U+2701><U+2712>
      <U+2713>
                           <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2702>
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                  <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2720><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2720><U+270C><U+270D>

<removed-date>
                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+2714><U+2702>
                                      <U+2714><U+2714>
                                 <U+2714><U+270E>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2720><U+270C><U+270D>
                                  <U+2714><U+2714>
                                   <U+2714><U+270E>
                                           <U+2714><U+2702>
                            <U+2714><U+2711>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2720><U+270C><U+270D>

                                <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>        <U+270E><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                            <U+270E><U+2712>
<removed-apn>                              <U+270E><U+270E>
                                  <U+270E><U+2702>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
                      <U+270E><U+2712>
                                                 <U+270E><U+2702>
                      <U+270E><U+2702>
                           <U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>                    <U+270E><U+2702>

                   <U+2701><U+271D>   <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                  <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2702>
          <U+270E>
          <U+2702>
                                <U+270E><U+270E>
                                             <U+270E><U+270E>
 <U+2718><U+2719>           <U+2704>                      <U+2702>
 <U+260E><U+2717>
      <U+270E>
                                         <U+270E>
      <U+2702>
                  <U+2712><U+270E>                     <U+2702>
                                             <U+2712><U+270E>
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                              <U+271D> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+271D>
              <U+2702><U+270E>                        <U+2702><U+270E>
 <U+2719>                       <U+270E><U+270E>
 <U+2717><U+2718>                                                  <U+270E><U+270E>
          <U+270E>        <U+2712><U+270E>                            <U+270E>
      <U+2702>                                      <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2712><U+270E>
<removed-date>             <removed-apn>

                            <U+2701><U+271D>   <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>                                  <U+271D> 
                <U+270F><U+2712><U+2711>                              <U+2711>
                                                 <U+2702>
                                                           <U+2701><U+2702>  <U+270E>
           <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                <U+2702>  <U+2713>
 <U+2719>                                                        <U+2715><U+2713>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
                      <U+2702><U+2711>                   <U+2712><U+2713> <U+2712>
                       <U+270E><U+2712>
                                             <U+2702>
                                                <U+270E><U+2712>
       <U+270F><U+2702><U+2711>                                            <U+2711>
                                                     <U+2701><U+2702>
      <U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2702>   <U+2712>                           <U+2712><U+270E>
                 <U+270E><U+2711>
<removed-date>                 <removed-apn>

                 <U+2701><U+271D>   <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>                                <U+271D> 
            <U+2712><U+2711>                           <U+270E><U+2713>
       <U+270E><U+2713>
                                   <U+2712><U+2711>
 <U+2719>
 <U+2717><U+2718>                                                   <U+2702><U+2713>
      <U+2702><U+2713>                                      <U+2702>   <U+2711>
                 <U+2711>
                 <U+2702>                  <U+2702><U+2712>
       <U+270E><U+270E>
                            <U+270E><U+2711>           <U+2701><U+2702>   <U+2711>
<removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                             <U+271D> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>                                <U+2701><U+271D>
                        <U+2702><U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2713>                   <U+2715>
                                   <U+2702>
                                                           <U+2715>
                                                           <U+2702>
                                       <U+270E><U+2715>
 <U+2719>                                               <U+2712><U+2702>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
 <U+2716><U+2702>   <U+2701>
          <U+2713>
          <U+2702>
                                            <U+2702><U+2702>        <U+2702><U+2702>
                   <U+2712><U+270E>                                          <U+2712><U+270E>
<removed-date>         <removed-apn>

                      <U+2701>        <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>                          <U+271D> 
                <U+2702>
                                            <U+2702><U+2702>
       <U+2702>   <U+2702>
 <U+2718><U+2719>
 <U+2716><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                 <U+2702>   <U+2702>
                          <U+2712><U+2702>           <U+270E><U+2702>
           <U+2712><U+270E>                                            <U+2712><U+270E>
<removed-date>         <removed-apn>

<removed-date>
                                              <U+2706><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                  <U+270E><U+2712>
                             <U+2702><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+270E>
                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
                                     <U+2702><U+2702>                  <U+2702><U+2712>       <U+2702>   <U+270E>
                   <U+2715><U+2702>        <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2715>
                                                                          <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702>         <U+2712>                                                <U+2715><U+270E>
                                 <U+2711>        <U+270E>
                                                     <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2702>   <U+2712>
                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>

              <U+2701>    <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
               <U+2701>
                                <U+2714>
                               <U+2702><U+2702>
 <U+2719> <U+270E><U+2702><U+2714>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
 <U+2716><U+2702>
                           <U+2702>
          <U+2702>
                                    <U+2702>
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                  <U+2701>         <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                  <U+270F>                 <U+2702>
                                                       <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
 <U+2719>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
 <U+2716><U+2718>         <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>                              <U+2712><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
      <U+2712><U+2702><U+2714>             <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
                                        <U+270F><U+2702>
                                                 <U+270F><U+2702>
      <U+270F><U+2702>
<removed-date>           <removed-apn>

<removed-date>
                         <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                                              <U+2702><U+2701>
               <U+2702>   <U+270F>              <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>
                            <U+2714><U+2702><U+2711>
                                  <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>         <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>
<removed-apn>                              <U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
                                                   <U+2702><U+2701>
                                        <U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
                                                        <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>
                                  <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701>

                         <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                                             <U+2702><U+2701>
                <U+2702>   <U+270F>            <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>
                                             <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>
                                       <U+2714><U+2702><U+2713>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2702><U+2701>
                                       <U+2714><U+2702><U+2713>
                                                       <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>
                                  <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-date>
                                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                                                     <U+2702><U+2702>
                    <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702><U+270F>   <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                               <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702>
                                         <U+2702>
                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
                     <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702>           <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702>
                                             <U+2714><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2712>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>

                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                              <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>                        <U+2702><U+2702>
                 <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702><U+270F>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702><U+2701>
<removed-apn>                                                         <U+2714><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                               <U+2702>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                                               <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>
                        <U+2714><U+2714><U+2712>                                   <U+2702><U+2702>
                                                     <U+2702>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>

                                        <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                                              <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702><U+270F>                    <U+2702><U+2702>
                         <U+2714><U+2714>  <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>                     <U+2714><U+2714><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2714>
                    <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702><U+270F>   <U+2702>
              <U+2714><U+2714><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                           <U+2714><U+2714>
                    <U+2714><U+270E><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>     <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702><U+270F>
                           <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>                                    <U+2702>
                <U+2702>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
                                                            <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>
                                                         <U+2714><U+2714><U+270E>
                            <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>                            <U+2714><U+2714><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701>

                          <U+2706> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+2702>   <U+270F>
                                  <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                            <U+270E><U+2713><U+2713>
              <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702>                                           <U+270E><U+2713><U+2702>
                    <U+270E><U+2715><U+2714>                       <U+270E><U+2715><U+2714>
                                  <U+270E><U+2715><U+2714>   <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>

                             <U+2706> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                       <U+270E><U+2712><U+2711>                 <U+270E><U+2712><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                               <U+270E><U+2712><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2712><U+2712>
                 <U+270E><U+2712><U+2711>         <U+270E><U+2712><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2712><U+2712><U+270F>
                             <U+270E><U+2712><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2712><U+2712>             <U+270E><U+2712><U+2711>
                                   <U+270E><U+2712><U+2712>
                       <U+270E><U+2712><U+2711>
                                     <U+270E><U+2712><U+2711>                 <U+270E><U+2712><U+2714>
                                                   <U+270E><U+2712><U+270E>
                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>             <U+2701>
                                                         <U+270E><U+2712><U+2711>
                             <U+270E><U+2713><U+2702>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>          <U+270E><U+2713><U+2702><U+2701>
                                 <U+270E><U+2713><U+2702><U+2701> <U+270E><U+2713><U+2702><U+270F>

                                       <U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2715>             <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702><U+270F>
                         <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>                                     <U+270E><U+2702><U+2713>
              <U+270E><U+2702><U+2712>
                                                                <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702>     <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702>
               <U+270E><U+2702><U+270E>                              <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2714>     <U+270E><U+2702><U+2714><U+270F>
                                               <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702>     <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                  <U+270E><U+2702><U+2712><U+270F>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>           <U+2702>

                                            <U+2706> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                              <U+2712><U+2702><U+2714>
                    <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E>         <U+2701>   <U+270E><U+2715><U+270E> <U+270E><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2714><U+2702><U+270E>   <U+2714><U+2702><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2702><U+270E>    <U+2701><U+270E><U+2715><U+270E>
                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2715><U+270E>        <U+2701><U+270E><U+2715><U+270E>
       <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E>
       <U+270E>
      <U+2702><U+2702>
 <U+2719>
 <U+2717><U+2718>        <U+2714><U+2712><U+270E>
           <U+270F><U+2702><U+2715><U+270E>              <U+270F><U+270E><U+2715><U+270E>                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+2715><U+270E>
 <U+2719>
 <U+2702>
                    <U+2702>   <U+2702><U+2714>     <U+270E><U+2715> <U+270E> <U+2702><U+2702><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2702><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2702><U+2714>        <U+2714><U+2702><U+270E>
                                            <U+2702><U+2714>
                               <U+270F><U+2702>          <U+2702>
                                               <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-date>        <removed-apn>

                                               <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+270E><U+2702><U+2711>               <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                                                                           <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2714>   <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                 <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
              <U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>                                                                       <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                                             <U+270E><U+2702><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+2701><U+270E><U+2702><U+2711>
              <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                        <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>                                                      <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                               <U+270E><U+2702><U+270E>     <U+270E><U+2702><U+2711>                          <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                                                              <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702>
                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>

                                  <U+2706><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                                                 <U+2712><U+2702><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+2712><U+2702><U+2702>
                     <U+2712><U+2702> <U+2711>                   <U+2712><U+2702><U+270E>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2702><U+2711><U+270F>                                      <U+2712><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
                            <U+2712><U+2702><U+2714>    <U+2712><U+2702> <U+2711>         <U+270F><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>

         <U+2701> <U+2702> <U+2711><U+2712>                                     <U+270F><U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
      <U+2701><U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>                                                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2712>
                                                            <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
        <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>                <U+2712>                <U+2711> <U+2702><U+2712>
                      <U+2702><U+2702>
                                    <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
                                                                  <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>
 <U+2719>            <U+270F> <U+2702><U+2712>                              <U+2712>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
                                          <U+2701> <U+2702>
 <U+2719>
 <U+260E>
                                                                    <U+2701> 
             <U+2702><U+2702>   <U+2712>                  <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
                      <U+2702><U+2714><U+2712>
       <U+2712><U+2702><U+2712>
<removed-date>            <removed-apn>

                                 <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                         <U+2701> <U+2702>   <U+2712>
 <U+2719>         <U+2712>
 <U+2717><U+2718>   <U+2702><U+2702>
                             <U+2712>
                            <U+2702><U+2702>                     <U+2701> <U+2702>   <U+2712>
 <U+2719>
      <U+2702><U+2702>   <U+2712>
                <U+2701> <U+2702>   <U+2712>
<removed-date>    <removed-apn>

                               <U+2702>     <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                         <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
 <U+2719>    <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>                      <U+2714><U+2702><U+2712>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
 <U+2719>          <U+2702><U+2702><U+2712>                                       <U+2714>
               <U+2714><U+270E><U+2712>                   <U+2714><U+270E><U+2712>
                                       <U+270E><U+270E><U+2712>
                                                      <U+2711>
                                             <U+2702>   <U+270E><U+2712>
<removed-date>     <removed-apn>

                    <U+2706> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+2712><U+2711><U+2702>
                                      <U+2712><U+270E><U+2714><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E>
                                <U+2712><U+2711><U+2711>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>   <U+2706>

       <U+270F><U+2714><U+270E><U+2712>                                          <U+2701>   <U+2714><U+270E><U+2712>
 <U+2719>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
 <U+2702>
 <U+2702>
                                           <U+2701>   <U+2714><U+2711><U+2712>
       <U+2714> <U+2702><U+2712>
      <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
       <U+2711> <U+2702><U+2712>
                           <U+2702><U+2702>   <U+2712>   <U+270F><U+2714><U+2711><U+2712>
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+270F>
                  <U+2701> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>    <U+2712><U+2712><U+2702>
               <U+260E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+270F>
                 <U+270F> <U+270F>
                 <U+2701> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+2720><U+271E> <U+271F><U+260E>     <U+2712><U+2712><U+2714>
                  <U+260E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2704><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+2702>   <U+2712><U+2712><U+270E>
                        <U+270F>
                <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2701><U+271F>
                                    <U+2712><U+2712><U+2711>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+261B><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702> <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701>
                                    <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712>
               <U+2704><U+2706><U+2704><U+261E><U+2704> <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>            <U+2702>

                <U+2702><U+2706><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+270F>
                  <U+2701> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>    <U+2712><U+2713><U+2702>
               <U+260E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+270F>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2704> <U+2704><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+2702>   <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                        <U+270F>
                <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2701><U+271F>
                                 <U+2712><U+2713><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+261B><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702> <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701>
                                <U+2712><U+2713><U+2711>
               <U+2704><U+2706><U+2704><U+261E><U+2704> <U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>

                                    <U+2702><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                                                    <U+2714>   <U+270E><U+2702><U+2714>
                             <U+270E><U+2712>      <U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2702>
<removed-apn>                                                     <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
              <U+270E><U+2702>
                   <U+270E><U+270E>
                    <U+270E><U+2702>
                      <U+2713><U+270E>
                     <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E>                               <U+270E><U+2702><U+2713>
                              <U+270E><U+2702><U+2715>
                                             <U+270E><U+2702><U+2715><U+270F>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>

                               <U+2702><U+260E><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>              <U+270E><U+2714><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                                       <U+2714>
                         <U+270E><U+2714><U+2715>
                                                        <U+270E><U+2714><U+2711>
               <U+270E><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                  <U+270E><U+2714><U+2713>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                                           <U+270E><U+270E><U+2711>   <U+270E><U+270E><U+2714>
                           <U+270E><U+2714><U+2715>
                                                         <U+270E><U+270E><U+2713>
                    <U+270E><U+2702>
                                                  <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>            <U+2701>                 <U+270E><U+2702><U+2713>

                               <U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                 <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>                   <U+270E><U+2711><U+270E>
                                                   <U+270E><U+2711><U+2712>
                       <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+2714>
                       <U+270E><U+2711><U+2714>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2711><U+2713>
                       <U+270E><U+2711><U+2711>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
                <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>                          <U+270E><U+2711><U+270E>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2711><U+2712>
                 <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>                                      <U+2714>
                 <U+270E><U+2711><U+2714>
                             <U+270E><U+2711><U+2711>                    <U+270E><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>

                             <U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>                       <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>         <U+270E><U+2711><U+270E>
                                                             <U+270E><U+2711><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                               <U+2714>
                       <U+270E><U+2711><U+2714>                                  <U+270E><U+2711><U+2711>
                                                            <U+270E><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                 <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>                <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702>
                                                <U+270E><U+2711><U+270E>
                                                            <U+270E><U+2711><U+2712>
                       <U+270E><U+2711><U+2714>
                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                             <U+270E><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                              <U+270E><U+2711><U+2711>

                <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701><U+271D>

                                              <U+2701> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                          <U+2742><U+2741><U+2740><U+273F> <U+273E><U+273D><U+273C><U+2739><U+273B><U+273A><U+2739><U+2738><U+2737>
                                 <U+271C><U+2727>                         <U+2723>
      <U+271A><U+2726><U+2723>        <U+271B>                        <U+2724>           <U+2723>
                                                            <U+2724><U+2727>                                                                                                               <U+271A><U+2726><U+2723>        <U+271B><U+2727>              <U+271C><U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2727><U+2724>          <U+2727><U+2723>
                                                                 <U+2726><U+2723>
                       <U+2719><U+2726>
            <U+2726><U+2722>   <U+271C><U+2726><U+2727>        <U+2726><U+2725>     <U+2723>   <U+2719><U+2726><U+2727>    <U+2726><U+2724>   <U+271B><U+2726><U+2727>                     <U+2722>   <U+271B>    <U+2719>         <U+2725>   <U+271C>         <U+2724>        <U+2724>        <U+2723>     <U+2723>        <U+2723>                                     <U+2726><U+2722>   <U+271C><U+2726>   <U+2719><U+2726>    <U+2726><U+2725>     <U+2723>   <U+2719><U+2726>     <U+2726><U+2724>   <U+271B><U+2726>
                                 <U+2719><U+2726>                       <U+2719><U+2726>          <U+271A><U+271A>       <U+271A><U+271C>   <U+271A><U+271A>   <U+271A><U+271A>       <U+2719><U+2723>   <U+271A><U+2719>       <U+271A><U+271A>       <U+271A><U+271B>       <U+2719><U+2724>    <U+271A><U+271A>       <U+271A><U+2722>   <U+271C><U+271B>   <U+271A><U+2719>                                           <U+2719><U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2717><U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>     <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272C>
 <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2717>
 <U+2717><U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2717>    <U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272F>
 <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2718>    <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2734><U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                            <U+271D><U+2715><U+2714><U+2706><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+261B> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2706><U+271D><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271D><U+271E><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271D><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                                                                                                                                <U+271D><U+2715><U+2714><U+2706><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+261B> <U+2712><U+271D>
<removed-date>                                        <removed-apn>

                                            <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                    <U+2711><U+2702><U+2715>
                                            <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>
                                               <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+270F>                   <U+2711><U+2702><U+2714>
                          <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E>                            <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
<removed-apn>                <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                         <U+2711><U+2702><U+2713>
                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2711><U+2714><U+270E>
                                                         <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
                                                  <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E>
                                <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
                                                                <U+2711><U+2714><U+2714>
                                      <U+2711><U+2714><U+2702>         <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+270F>                 <U+2711><U+2714><U+2711>
                                                                             <U+2711><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                         <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>

                                               <U+260E> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>
                    <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>
                                             <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>       <U+2711><U+270E><U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                                                       <U+2711><U+270E><U+2713>
                                                               <U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
                     <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E>
                    <U+2711><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+270F>                                         <U+2711><U+270E><U+2702>
                                      <U+2711><U+270E><U+270E>
                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701>
                    <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>         <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>                                  <U+2711><U+2711><U+2712>
                                               <U+2711><U+2711><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E>
                          <U+2711><U+2711><U+2714>
                                        <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+270F>             <U+2711><U+2711><U+270E>           <U+2711><U+2711><U+2711>
                                      <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2711><U+2711><U+2713>
                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701>

                                               <U+260E> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-date>               <U+2711><U+2712><U+2702>                <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E>                       <U+2711><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>                                             <U+2711><U+2711><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>                   <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+270F>                                      <U+2711><U+2711><U+2711>
                                                       <U+2711><U+2712><U+2714>
                                             <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2711><U+2711><U+2713>
                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>
                    <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>         <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
                                         <U+2711><U+2713><U+2702>                                     <U+2711><U+2711><U+2712>
                                                       <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E>
                                                             <U+2711><U+2711><U+270E>
                                      <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+270F>
                                                                    <U+2711><U+2711><U+2702>           <U+2711><U+2711><U+2711>
                                       <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+2701>
                                                                                 <U+2711><U+2711><U+2713>
                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                                  <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                                                  <U+2711><U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                                            <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>
                                                                   <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E>
                                                                         <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                                         <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E><U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2711><U+2702><U+2713>
                          <U+2711><U+2702><U+2711>                                           <U+2711><U+2702><U+2713><U+2701>
                                      <U+2711><U+2702><U+2715>
                                                         <U+2711><U+2702><U+2713><U+270F>
                                                                    <U+2711><U+2702><U+2713>
                    <U+2711><U+2702><U+2712>                     <U+2711><U+2702><U+270E>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>               <U+2711><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2702><U+2715>
                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>

